I direct my first question in the Senate to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Will the Government give earnest consideration to the abolition of estate duty as an iniquitous tax especially on our farmers, many of whom spend their lives working to pay off the debts incurred by them as a result of the death of their parents? 
I preface my question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, by referring to the disastrous fires in the western district of Victoria last weekend in which many thousands of stud sheep and cattle were burnt, and many hectares of grass were totally destroyed. I wish to pay a tribute to the tremendous work of the fire fighters in that area who saved so many homesteads. Can the Minister give us any details of assistance available to the victims and in particular whether materials for fencing, miles and miles of which were destroyed, will be made available to those who suffered this loss? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In his statement to the Senate yesterday the Minister referred to the growth in money supply and indicated that the anticipated growth of 10 per cent to 12 per cent at the time of the Budget may have to be revised 'marginally upwards'. I ask: Firstly, can the Minister say what is the new money supply target? Secondly, can the Minister say whether one consequence of allowing the money supply to grow above 12 per cent will be that current bank lending limits will be raised? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. It has been reported that a company named Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd incurred a loss of some $70m for the year to 30 June 1974. It was also reported that the group originally announced a profit of $3.1m on 16 September 1974 and then went into receivership on 30 September of that year. That loss has broken the previous record loss of some $40m which was made by Reid Murray Acceptance in 1962-63. There are other companies such as Minsec to which we could refer. In most cases this is, of course, a loss to the small people because the big people manage to get out. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is the Minister aware that IAC (Holdings) Ltd yesterday announced a property write-off of about $26m, making a total write-off of about $56m over the past 3 years? Can the Minister say whether or not over the same 3 years the company has raised from the public about $300m in debenture and note issues based on prospectuses containing valuations at the pre-write-down figures? Can the Minister say whether or not the Government is concerned about the matter and about the possibility that other companies currently are doing the same thing? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications confirm that the Channel 9 network has obtained the contract to televise the Australia versus England test cricket matches this winter? Will the Minister ensure that as a consequence people living in rural areas will not be disadvantaged? Will the Minister take steps to ensure that the test coverage is broadcast through the regional network of television stations- Australian Broadcasting Commission, if not commercial? 
Last year the Minister for Social Security tabled Part I of the final report of the National Superannuation Committee of Inquiry. Is the Minister able to indicate when she will table the final report of the Committee of Inquiry and when that report will be available to senators and members of the public? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the proposed amalgamation of the Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics. Is the Minister aware that local government has greatly appreciated the independence of the Bureau of Roads? Does the Minister agree that the resulting co-operative consultation and effort demonstrates cooperative federalism at its best? Can the Minister say whether or not the proposed new body will be established by legislation in a similar manner to the way in which the Bureau of Roads was established or will it be absorbed into a federal departmental structure? 

 -Mr President, I have the honour to move: 
That the following Address-in-Reply to the speech of  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth the Second be agreed to: 
To Her Most Excellent Majesty Elizabeth the SecondMost Gracious Sovereign: 
We, Your Majesty's loyal subjects, the members of the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia, in Parliament assembled, desire to thank Your Majesty for the gracious Speech which you have been pleased to address to Parliament. 
The presence in Australia of Your Majesty and of His Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh has once again brought the greatest pleasure to your Australian people. We, their representatives in the Senate, are grateful for the opportunity to re-affirm our allegiance to you as our Queen. 
As you have said,  Mr President,  this is my maiden speech. I am conscious of the fact that I am here only because of the tragic death of  Senator Ivor  Greenwood, Q.C. The late  Senator Greenwood  was a friend of mine. He was acknowledged by all as a man of integrity and high principle, of outstanding courage, with a passion for justice and with an enormous capacity for work. Repeatedly in and around Canberra I have been informed by car drivers and staff that he used to work until half past 3 or 4 o'clock in the morning and then resume again at 8 a.m. the same day. There can be no doubt as to the cause of his death in relation to his work. Yet, as the wife of an employee of the people of Australia, his widow had no entitlement to any compensation- only to an  ex gratia  payment. Frankly it is my belief that a charitable payment to a widow of a parliamentarian who died in those circumstances is not good enough. 
I am conscious of the honour of being a senator. I have been chosen by the Liberal Party of Australia, and I am conscious of that honour. But I represent Victoria and I was appointed without dissent by a resolution of both Houses of the Parliament of Victoria. I was present when that resolution was carried. I am pleased that the Houses of the Parliament of Victoria followed the convention without dispute. I was reminded by speakers from the Opposition and the National Country Party of Australia in that Parliament that I represent the State of Victoria and 
I am very conscious of that representation. But, in particular, I hope to represent the people of rural Victoria- the people of the towns and other areas in rural Victoria. I believe that they in particular need representation at this time. 
As to those living on the land, for far too long many of them have been living out of capital. A fall in land values would bankrupt many. They have economised and cut their living standards. They and their families are working long hours for an inadequate return. Estimated figures for 1976-77 from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics show farmers with an average net weekly income of $169 compared with an average weekly wage of $185. But worse, not only is the sum of $169 an average but also, in many cases, it is a family wage. Dad, mum and the kids are desperately trying to keep their heads above water. Even large properties are in dire straits. The  Chairman  of the Australian Meat Board, when submitting the Board's report to 30 June 1976, had this to say: 
In 1974-75 and 1975-76 up to three-quarters of all beef specialist enterprises in Australia were considered to be operating at a loss. The debts accumulated on these specialist properties could well render many of these enterprises unprofitable even with a return to prices considered to be attractive. 
Certainly the people of rural Victoria and rural Australia need help. First and foremost they need inflation contained. Inflation hits the man on the land hardest of all. They need help with the marketing of their products the Australian Wool Corporation's marketing plan has shown us the way. Their products need to be marketed aggressively. They also need information services and help with very long term finance. 
In particular they would like some acknowledgment that they are wanted. They need to be assured that they and their families have a future and that they can plan for that future on the land. Australia will not be prosperous until the primary producer becomes profitable. Australian rural towns will not be prosperous until that date and Australian urban cities will not be prosperous until that date. 
As a newcomer I would like to comment on the functions of the Senate as I see them, especially at this time when, no doubt, much will be said about the forthcoming referenda. I think that no one seriously suggests that the Senate does not operate very effectively as a House of review, but many would contend that it is not a States' House. With respect, I disagree. I believe that that is a superficial view only. Certainly, senators always have grouped in parties rather than in States, but that has not stopped them arguing for their States not only in this chamber but also, and in particular, in their party rooms. Often legislation has been drawn in a certain way because governments have known that it would not pass the Senate in any other form. 
Members of the House of Representatives are concerned mostly with their constituencies; senators are concerned with their States. Further, with proportional representation, I believe there can be no doubt that this House is the most democratically elected House of Parliament in Australia. 

 Mr President, my  Vh  weeks in this chamber have not been without interest. In my first week there was so much legislation that we had to sit until 6 o'clock on a Friday afternoon, the last sitting day in 1976. In fact on my very first day there were some 20 divisions on one Bill- almost a record. During my second week here someone turned out the lights on the Parliament, and in my third week eleven of my colleagues voted against their Government. I want to refer to this last matter. Probably there will be much debate in this chamber and elsewhere on the referenda, but as to the debate in this chamber I would like to make two simple points. Firstly, I believe that those of my colleagues who crossed the floor did so out of the highest of motives for the institution of the Senate and in no way for self-interest. I think their views should be respected as such. Secondly, I hope that the debate will be kept to the highest of levels consistent with consideration of constitutional change in the Senate of Australia. 
There has been a suggestion that in a maiden speech one should discuss a matter of concern to the members of one's State, preferably a noncontroversial matter. Already I have discussed one such matter, the plight of the primary producer. There is another such matter that I would like to mention. It is of major concern to all Victorians. I am sure this matter has almost unanimous support and so it must be noncontroversial. That matter is the complete condemnation of the  President  of the Victorian Teachers Union and his committee for calling yesterday's teachers' strike in Victoria. These people called a strike on the basis of some alleged rumours which were denied immediately and without reservation by the Victorian Minister,  Mr Lindsay  Thompson, and the Victorian Director of Education, men of complete integrity. But these people were so determined to have a strike that after 2 days of shenanigans they then changed their reasons for the strike. This time they told us that it was wrong for teachers who are working in office jobs with other Victorian public servants to work the same hours as those other public servants. Instead of starting at 8.30 a.m., like other public servants, they should not have to start until 9 a.m. Instead of finishing work at 4.46 p.m., like other public servants, they should be allowed to finish at 4.30 p.m. I suppose they want 14 weeks annual leave as well.  Mr President  this strike was preposterous and a farce. It was also sinister. As a lawyer occasionally involved in matrimonial contests I have seen children wielded by one parent to achieve a course of action by another parent. I have always detested such people and such tactics. I believe these people have used Victorian children in a similar manner. 
Finally, and most importantly, let me return to my motion and the Speech of  Her  Majesty to her Australian Parliament. There is much of significance in the Speech. First and foremost, it should be noted that the Speech is progressive and forward looking. This Government is not yet half way through its term. It might have been expected that this Speech would simply review past achievements and confirm completion of the Government's program. That would have been quite acceptable. This Government has achieved much in its short term of office. But no, this document goes much further. It sets out guidelines for the future in a variety of fields. There is a commitment to increasing the freedom, opportunity and equality of the Australian people- giving people an opportunity to make their own choices and to live their own lives. I ask you,  Mr President,  not to treat these words lightly. I know my Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He means what he says and I do not doubt that he means what  Her  Majesty said. There is a commitment to assisting people overcome poverty and disadvantage, to assisting those most in need in a manner which increases their choice, their dignity and self respect. There are proposals for the protection of individual liberties and human rights against unwarranted intrusions, proposals to strengthen the responsibility of government to citizens. Taken altogether, one could say quite reasonably that it is a program of reform- very substantial reform- for the protection of the citizens of the Commonwealth. I commend the Government on its proposals and take pride in moving the motion. 
I did not intend to speak in this debate tonight, but having heard  Senator Cavanagh  I must express a view. The other day, during the Address-in-Reply debate I heard a marvellous speech by  Senator Bonner,  made without notes in reply to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt).  I was most impressed, as I have told many honourable senators on this side of the chamber. 
That would not surprise me. I am in complete agreement with the views expressed by  Senator Cavanagh  tonight, except those in relation to  Senator Bonner.  It is my belief that academic qualification in universities and schools is of little value. Education goes on through life. I agree with the sentiments expressed in that regard by  Senator Cavanagh.  I think honourable senators are far better off expressing their views without notes, regardless of academic qualifications. If they had academic training they would be able to write out the words far better than they would be able to express them on their feet. They would therefore be able to stand up and read far more clever words than perhaps they are able to express on their feet. I support the sentiments expressed by  Senator Cavanagh,  except those in relation to  Senator Bonner. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Senator Wriedt's)  be agreed to. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Does the Government favour decentralisation of industry? If so, is the Government aware that one of the factors militating against industries being established in rural areas is the cost of subscriber trunk dialling telephone calls? Is the Government considering any relief from this burden? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. Is the child care legislation now under review? If so, would the Minister consider a review along the lines of the Government's family allowances scheme so that more of the taxpayers ' money goes directly to the needy instead of in salaries to so-called experts? 
-Would the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunicatons agree that it would be more equitable if all telephone calls throughout Australia were charged on a time of call basis rather than on a distance between regions basis? Is the Minister aware that equipment is available to enable introduction of a charging system based on a time of call? Would the Minister consider directing Telecom to spend some of its huge profits on that equipment? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications whether he is aware that yesterday some 2000 Telecom Australia employees, who are members of the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union, went over to a  36%  hour week. Is the Minister aware that the reason was that the unions signed a productivity agreement with Telecom to do the same amount of work in  36%  hours as the employees had previously done in 40 hours? Does the Minister know how it is possible to do 40 hours work in 363A hours? Does the Minister agree that the answer to this simple question would solve all productivity problems? If the Minister does not know the secret will he undertake an urgent inquiry of the union and of Telecom? Will the Minister ascertain whether Telecom has invented a time machine? Will the Minister let us know whether, some day, we may be able to do a week's work in the twinkling of an eye? In due course, will the Minister let members of the Parliament into the secret so that they may reduce their average working hours from 70 hours to 637/8 hours? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs: Is he aware that the Australian Shareholders' Association has complained: (i) about lack of information given to shareholders of IAC (Holdings) Ltd about a takeover bid by Citicorp Services Inc. (ii) that IAC shareholders will receive only a summary of an independent report on the bid prepared by Hill Samuel Aust. Ltd? Further, is the Minister aware of proposals to set up a shareholders ' tribunal with power to investigate complaints by individual shareholders? Can the Minister say whether the Government favours the proposal and, if so, what it might do to help to establish it? If not, can the Minister say what alternative proposals the Government has to assist small shareholders who have complaints about the actions of directors of public companies? 
-Now that we have finished the history lesson and the rhetoric I would like to get back to the subject of the debate which relates to the Government's policy and performance in industrial relations, and particularly to co-operation.  Senator Harradine  presented a very thought-provoking speech on this subject. I suppose that the first part of the Government's policy that he attacked relates to proposed section 45D of the Bill to amend Trade Practices Act. I draw the attention of the Senate to the Government's announcement on 5 April as follows: 
The Government has confirmed its earlier decision to include a provision in the Act dealing with anti-competitive secondary boycotts by employees. The precise terms of this provision were still being considered. 
I believe there is no doubt that  Senator Harradine  also would concur in opposing secondary boycotts, as does the vast majority of the Australian people. In my view the Government can co-operate no more than in expressing its view that the terms of the provision have not yet been finalised; in fact the Minister concerned has stressed on a number of occasions that it was never intended that the legislation would go beyond prohibiting secondary boycotts. 

 Senator Harradine 's major criticism seemed to me to be that the Government's legislation does not require compulsory unionism, yet that in fact was the very first point under the heading of Organisations' in the Government's policy statement issued prior to the election in December 1975. That stated very clearly that every employee has a right to join a union and equally that every employee has the right not to do so.  Senator Harradine  attacks that provision in the Bill. I understood and appreciated his reference to the hip pocket test- his suggestion that conscientious objectors should pay into Consolidated Revenue an amount equal to annual dues. That is what the hip pocket test is all about and I take that reference on board. Similarly I take on board his concern that unions cannot discipline their members. Proposed section 5a(1)(ยง) of the Bill provides that an organisation: 
. shall not impose, or threaten to impose, a penalty, forfeiture or disability of any kind upon a member of the organisation . . . 
with the intent to coerce the member to join in industrial action; . . . 

 Senator Harradine attacked that provision on the basis that it means that in some circumstances, for example, where there is a strike- I cannot think of the term where just a few of the unionists strike without the union organisation approving the strike - 
Yes, a heap of scabs. But a union in those circumstances would not be able to discipline its members. Under the Bill it would not be able to discipline its members in forcing them to go on strike, and similarly it would not be able to discipline its members who go on what might be called an unlawful strike. I believe that they are some of the objections which he raised in his speech. I take them on board but I ask him this question: Why has he not put those objections to the Government? After all, that is why the Bill is lying on the table. 
The honourable senator could not have been asking questions for 3 months solid because the Bill has not been on the table for that long. 

 - Senator Harradine has no criticism of the major thrust of the Bill which seeks the establishment of the Industrial Relations Bureau.  Senator Harradine  said that he opposes it, but as far as I was able to gather from his speech his only criticism was that in certain circumstances a worker may lose his right of appeal. As I understand his proposal, if a worker goes to the Bureau with a complaint and the Bureau approves the complaint, but for different reasons, the worker may be deprived of his right of appeal. As far as I was able to ascertain from  Senator Harradine  's speech, that was his only major criticism of the legislation in relation to the Industrial Relations Bureau. I do not know whether that criticism is correct. Again I ask: Why not go to the Government with that proposition? After all, that is precisely what the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  said in his second reading speech. For the benefit of the Senate, I shall read what he said: 
However, the Government does not purport to have found the perfect answer. For this reason, and because of the fundamental importance of the legislation, it believes that there is a need for time to be given not only for the members of Parliament to give the proposed legislation their objective consideration, but also for the principal parties to industrial relations- the peak councils of the employer organisations and trade unions, individual trade unions and individual employers and, more importantly, the community at large- to examine the contents of the Bill and to be able to make their views known to the Government. 
In my opinion, that is co-operation by the Government. I put to  Senator Harradine  that if he has views of this nature about the Bill he ought to put them in writing and at length to the Government. 
That may be so. I have put a number of submissions already to the Government on the Bill. I have no doubt that many others have.  Senator Harradine  could if he wished. The Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council could. We did not hear what the other Trades and Labour Councils had to say about the Bill. That is in relation to the Government's policy. 
Let us look at the Government's performance. We must look at the number of strikes that have taken place since this Government has been in power. In 1974 nearly 6.3 million industrial working days were lost. In 1976 nearly 3.8 million working days were lost. That is a very substantial reduction. Of those 3.8 million, 2.1 million were due to the Medibank strike. In other words, 55 per cent of the working days lost in 1976 were due to one strike. The figures from the Australian Bureau of Statistics for January 1977 show that the number of working days lost in January 1977 was 28 400. That is the lowest number for January for the past 8 years. The average number of days per worker involved in the working days lost were: in 1973, under Labor, 3.3; in 1974, 3.1; in 1975, 2.5; and in 1976, 1.7. 
We do not need the legislation. Clearly the Government's policies have been working. 
Because the Government was given a very substantial mandate, when it was returned to office, to bring in precisely this legislation. This legislation was anticipated in speeches by Government candidates prior to the election. The Government was returned with an overwhelming majority. A senator in this Chamber has said to me: 'If you can put these submissions in writing, why bother to come into this chamber?' There will be a very substantial opportunity to debate this Bill in the chamber in due course. The point is that the Government is endeavouring to co-operate as much as it can with everyone concerned about industrial relations in Australia. It is clear that today  Senator Harradine,  who has much to contribute to this subject, has used this chamber and its procedures to pre-empt that debate and, in effect, to try to bring on a debate about a Bill which is not before the Senate. I put to him that I shall do my best to consider the matters which he has raised today, to discuss them with the Minister and to do what I can to ensure that the legislation is the best that this Government can bring forward. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to the settlement of the Victorian oil dispute. I ask: Does the Minister agree that the agreement to pay additional allowances and overtime rates will result in substantial benefits to the tanker drivers? Does the Minister agree that the oil companies have surrendered to union pressure? In view of the Minister's telex to the oil companies, will the Government now subject the pricing policies of the oil companies to close examination? If not, why not? 
-The urgency motion being debated this evening is in 3 parts. Whilst I can accept the second part, I cannot agree with the first part and I cannot agree with the imputation in the third part. The first paragraph deals with the community's serious concern about the General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd proposal to force all employees to take one week's leave. I cannot agree that the community would be seriously concerned about that as a proposal. I think the community would agree that that is not an unreasonable proposal, especially with the school holidays occurring during the month in which it is proposed the leave be taken. I am sure most members of the community would agree that it is better than being stood down. I think that certainly there are matters of concern to the public. In fact, the matter raised in paragraph 2 of the motion would certainly be a matter of concern to the public. It states: 
The company's failure to adequately consult the Australian Government and the trade unions in respect of the above . . . 
All parties to this debate today, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and Government supporters in the other House have agreed with this part of the urgency motion. General Motors clearly has had opportunities to consult the Government but it has failed to do so. I do believe that is a matter of very grave concern. 
The other matter which I think would be of grave concern to the public is the question of misjudgment which seems to have been agreed upon by practically all parties to this debate today. It would appear that suddenly General MotorsHolden's had discovered that it is no longer making a motor car which is wanted by the public. Some years ago the Ford Motor Co. of 
Australia and Chrysler Australia Ltd discovered the same thing. Since then, both companies have tried to produce a car which is wanted by the public. Ford appears to have succeeded. Of course, it has not had much opposition. For far too long Australians have had to put up with motor cars with poor handling characteristics; which are unsafe at any speed in a moment of crisis; which are especially fast on the open highways and especially dangerous on our open highways; and designed to race from one set of traffic lights to another set of traffic lights at high speed and to come to a sudden halt. On an open highway our cars need to be able to do far more than that. Many Australians have decided that they will suffer this situation no longer and have opted to pay somewhat outrageous prices for imported European cars which handle the way all motor cars should handle. Since the appointment of  Mr Chapman  from General Motors-Holden 's in Germany as Managing Director of General Motors-Holden 's in Australia, that company appears to have recognised its disabilities because it has now produced new models- at this stage only of their smaller cars- which are especially advertised as 'handling like a European car'. I refer to the advertisement for a Holden Sunbird which states: 
New Sunbird is here! 
Now you can get economy and the equipment of imported cars, plus exceptional handling . . . 
-I drive a 1968 BMW car which is 9 years old and has done 120 000 miles. It has done them very well, on long distances throughout Victoria. It is a very good motor car. I submit that this advertisment is in itself an admission that the handling of other Holden motor cars is abominable. 
Yes, abominable. It seems to me that General Motors-Holden 's has misjudged the market, in particular for its larger cars the Holden and the Statesman. It has been estimated that there are about 10 000 of these cars in stock. It would take seven or eight weeks of new car registrations to clear those cars- not one week. I ask: What is the motive of General Motors-Holden 's in taking this action? In 1975, under a Labor Government, this company threatened to dismiss 5000 people and it succeeded in having the sales tax level reduced from 2 7 1/2 per cent to 15 per cent. If that is its motive this time, it will not succeed because this Government will not reduce its sales tax because it is concerned about inflation. Some honourable senators opposite would push for a reduction in sales tax because they know that it would increase the Government's deficit and increase inflation. I ask honourable senators opposite whether they have an interest in keeping inflation as high as possible. 
Let us examine the benefits which this industry receives. It has a 45 per cent tariff advantage and in July 1974, the Industries Assistance Commission recommended that the tariff advantage should be only 25 per cent. This is an effective subsidy of $4,000 a year for each car worker. The industry has an assured 80 per cent of the domestic market and, from time to time, quotas have been used to ensure that. Last December's devaluation increased the landed price of imported vehicles by 2 1 per cent. Since then, of course, that has been reduced by revaluations. I submit that this Government has done all that could be expected of it to assist the motor car industry. General Motors-Holden 's appears to have been unable to take advantage of it. One can draw one's own conclusions about that. I reject part 3 of the urgency motion which states: 
The urgent need for the Government to make firm decisions in respect of the industry. 
It has made those decisions and it is carrying them out. I should like to raise one final and vital point which does not appear to have come out in this debate. This point, in my book, will cause the community great concern. Once again union leaders in this country have opted for retrenchment of their own workers rather than adopt some form of co-operation. The people of Australia will recognise what the union leaders have done in these circumstances. Clearly, in my opinion, the unions leaders have a vested interest in political disruption and in keeping unemployment in Australia as high as possible. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Does the Minister agree that one consequence of wage increases in labour intensive low profit industries is increased unemployment as employers try to cope with increased overheads? Is the Minister aware that the Australian Council of Trade 
Unions is putting to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the current case that all award wages should be increased across the board? Does the Minister agree that such an increase will penalise workers in the low profit industries - 
The Commission is an arbitral authority. It is a commission and not a court of law and  I  suggest that there is no substance in the point of order. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. It concerns a purported KGB agent in Australia. Can the Government say whether there has been in Australia a Russian diplomat by the name of Raina? Is the Government aware that recently Raina was reported as being in Melbourne interviewing a Soviet citizen who had defected? Is Raina the person who was expelled from Britain in 1971 because he was a KGB agent? Can the Minister say when Raina was admitted to Australia? Can he say whether it is the Government's intention to expel Raina? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications the following question, without notice, on 24 March 1977: 
Would the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications agree that it would be more equitable if all telephone calls throughout Australia were charged on a time of call basis rather than on a distance between regions basis? Is the Minister aware that equipment is available to enable introduction of a charging system based on a time of call? Would the Minister consider directing Telecom to spend some if its huge profits on that equipment? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to the so-called settlement of the General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd dispute. It has been reported that one of the terms of the settlement was that employees could take their long service leave and retire at the age of 55 years. I ask: Does this not mean in effect that vehicle builders working for GM-H will be retiring at 55 on unemployment benefit at the expense of the Australian taxpayer? It is reported also that workers being transferred from one plant to another would be compensated in excess of the present legal requirements, and the figure suggested is about $28 a week. Will the Minister find out for us what that is all about in relation to a company threatening to sack 600 people because of a slump in sales? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to reported statements that some service station owners are intending to align themselves with trade unions in a campaign to end discriminatory pricing in the oil industry. I ask: Are these so-called independent owners in effect tenants of the various oil companies? Do the oil companies sell to cut price petrol jobbers, in particular ACTUSolo Enterprises Pty Ltd, at prices very substantially below those at which they sell to their own tenants? In other words, do some oil companies help cut price resellers to undercut their own tenants by very substantial margins? Can the Minister say whether the Government is prepared to do anything to remedy this problem? 
-The Conciliation and Arbitration Bill which is now before us has been very substantially amended because of agreement between the Government, the unions and the employer organisations. The Government has given much for this agreement. Firstly, the Bill contained a series of proposals designed to protect the rights of individual employees and others against unfair actions by employers and organisations. Secondly, the range of consequences available to the Industrial Court for breaches of industrial law or of awards was extended by the Bill to provide greater flexibility for the court. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has said that in the Budget session those provisions will be reviewed in the light of their further consideration by the reconstituted National Labour Advisory Council. Those provisions were held in high regard by Government senators and members. 
So far in this debate the Opposition has failed to remember that the Bill lay on the table for consideration. In fact some honourable senators today have criticised the Government for failure to implement the Bill earlier. We on this side had our views as to amendments.  Senator Wright  had his views about contracts and enforcement by civil actions for damages. I have talked with him about his proposals and there is much merit in them. But personally I have my doubts about the ability of employers to enforce them in Australia because of the actions which unions would take against an employer who endeavoured to enforce such a contract. Perhaps it would be enforceable if the company were in liquidation. Those proceedings might work in America where unions are used to them, but personally I doubt that they would work in Australia. For my part, I would have preferred to see the penalty provisions of the present Act replaced by proposed clause 109 (a) in the Bill. In my view, the power to suspend would be of more value to the court than the present power to impose fines. But those provisions are not now before us. 
I hope that Opposition members and senators will recognise the sacrifice. We have, of course, gained the Bureau and the National Labour Advisory Council but, much more importantly in my view, a major confrontation has been avoided. The Minister did the right thing by allowing the original Bill to lie on the table for consideration and, during that time, by inviting the representatives of the national employers and the representatives of the peak union councils to meet with him to discuss the Bill. I congratulate the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations for finally recognising the determination of this Government to introduce an Industrial Relations Bureau and then for offering no objection to its formation, on certain terms, and for offering to join the reconstituted National Labour Advisory Council. Those offers were most reasonable. I congratulate the Minister and the Government for taking them up and I congratulate the employer organisations for accepting the compromise. That action demonstrated most clearly that the Government was and is prepared to be reasonable within the bounds of its promises to the people. 
I have been concerned about a confrontation between the Government and the union movement, a confrontation encouraged by the irresponsible minority left wing of the union movement. The extremists of the left wing- I refer to people like Halfpenny and Carmichael- believe that their objectives have been achieved when some of the people of Australia are in violent confrontation with other Australians. They have no more than a passing interest in the nature of the confrontation or the result. Their end is the confrontation. When said, usually that is recognised. But unfortunately it is too soon forgotten. We should never forget that the purpose of the extremist is to have a confrontation- it does not matter what about. So long as there is a confrontation the extremist has achieved his object. 
In Australia at present we are also faced with the tyranny of the minorities. Of course, minorities are entitled to their say but today they are not satisfied with the right to put forward their views. They have a confrontation if their views are not accepted. They put themselves forward as being infallible. Just as bad, we- I mean the mythical ordinary Australian- repeatedly demonstrate to them that the way to succeed is to be ruthless. Far too often, for example, we find that the union leader who puts forward a proposal with moderation and reasonableness has not been listened to. Far too often his moderation is treated as a sign of weakness and his proposals are rejected out of hand. In due course he adopts an extremist approach or loses his position to an extremist. Then a strike is called or a major confrontation takes place. It seems to me that too frequently it is only at that time that the claim is given proper consideration. We have demonstrated to him and his supporters that the way to succeed is to be ruthless. There should be a more generous understanding of the moderate and reasonable unionist. Their should be unrelenting determination to oppose ruthless minority extremists. 
It is most significant that the extreme Left opposed the agreement recognised by the Bills before us. It is disappointing that the Party opposite has determined to oppose the Bills. Legislation by itself cannot solve the problem of strikes. Discussions, understanding and compromise are essential features of solutions to strikes. I should have thought that the Opposition would recognise those simple propositions and recognise that these Bills create that opportunity. Also, it may be that the consultation process will prove to be important in solving some of Australia's economic problems. Of course it may be that the Opposition has recognised these possibilities and determined, for its own ends, to oppose the Bills. Certainly the extreme left wing has recognised the danger of these consequences because as soon as the proposals were made they were attacked by the communist-dominated unions. The spokesmen for these unions are totally committed to confrontation with the Government. That is their purpose and they recognise that the Bill 's before the Senate may prevent them from achieving that purpose. The moderation and understanding shown by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the other representatives of the employers and the employees in seeking the agreement represented by these Bills are to be commended. 
-Since becoming aware some months ago of the proposed legislation in relation to the dairy industry I have been somewhat concerned for 2 reasons. Firstly, I was concerned whether it would accord with the philosophy of our Party. I am interested to note that the legislation before us tonight is supported by the Opposition. That was one of the matters which concerned me. It seemed to me to be more in line with Oppositions proposals than with proposals normally associated with the Government. The other matter which caused me considerable concern was whether the legislation would be good for the Victorian dairy farmer. However, I found that members of the Government committee had been working on the Industries Assistance Commission report for some months before I came to the Senate. All I could really do was talk to them about it. They assured me that the proposals would be of advantage to dairy farmersin general and Victorian dairy farmers in particular. I read in the Press criticism of the proposals by the Victorian Minister of Agriculture. I live in his electorate in Victoria. In fact, I have a close association with him. He made no complaint about the legislation to me. So, I formed the conclusion that he was grandstanding. I am not being critical by suggesting that. I think it is typical of practically all State Ministers. They grandstand for their own electoral purposes and perhaps in an attempt to get more out of the Federal Government. 
On Tuesday night I received a telephone call complaining about the legislation, and on Wednesday I received the telegram already referred to. Both of these actions emanating from the Victorian Minister came after the party room discussion and after the Bills had gone through the other House; so it was too late for me to raise in the party room the matters about which he was talking. I expressed to him my displeasure that he should leave it until the last moment to register his complaints with me. I have discussed that matter with him at considerable length, and I believe that the position will be different in the future; that if he has any complaints about actions of the Federal Government I will hear about them with good time to do something about them. 
The result was that yesterday I spent most of my time in conference and on the telephone, trying to sort out matters raised in the telephone discussion which I had had and in the telegram. The Victorian Minister's position is a sort of fall-back position. Firstly, he claimed to be against the l egislation. If the legislation had to go through, then he was against the levy provisions. If the levy provisions had to be included in the legislation, then it was his view that the levy should be returned to the offending State, not the State in which the offence took place-in other words, to the State from which the milk was sold interstate. 
Yesterday I spoke to the Federal Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  about these matters and put in much time discussing the orderly marketing arrangements with him and other members of the Government committee studying theIAC report. It was put to me by the Federal Minister that stage I would be of advantage to Victorian dairy farmers, but that the other States would not agree to the implementation of stage I without the levy provision. When I examined the proposals, that seemed to me to be quite fair and proper. I had a good look at the Industries Assistance Commission recommendation also. There is no doubt that, as mentioned in the second reading speech of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack),  the IAC scheme is aimed essentially at protecting the domestic market price structure. Its recommendation is to maintain stability, or rather to overcome the potential for instability. The Victorian Minister had not spoken to me about the advantages which the Victorian dairy farmers might gain from stage I; but when I put it to him that there may be an advantage for the Victorian dairy farmers he disclosed to me that he had formed a view already that it would be worth at least $2m and probably $3m to them. This led me to the conclusion that the Federal Minister's position was not only crystal clear but also quite valid. 
I also spoke to the Federal Minister about the Victorian Minister's proposal that the levy should be returned to the offending State. I discovered that the Federal Minister favours the return of the levy when it has been triggered, to the offending State. In other words, it is his view that if Victorian dairy farmers market milk interstate and the levy is triggered, then the levy should be returned to Victoria. Of course, Victoria would not return it to the offending marketers but would use if for its general purposes in connection with the industry. As I understand it, and as in fact I am assured by the Federal Minister, that is his personal opinion. But because it was a matter to be considered in the future when the levy is imposed, if ever it is imposed, and because it had been decided that other matters in the legislation should be left to a majority decision of the Agricultural Council, he decided that this matter should be left to a majority decision of the Agricultural Council, too. So that is the situation as it is in the legislation. That again seems to me to be quite a reasonable proposition. 
The final problem which had been raised by the Victorian Minister was on the question of cream. In his second reading speech on the Dairy Assistance Levy Bill the Minister said: 
There is provision for other products to be prescribed- 
And he gave as an example fresh cream. The Victorian Minister became considerably concerned about this because Victoria already has a substantial interstate trade in cream. It then appeared as though this levy could be triggered  from  the moment that the legislation comes into force on 1 July this year. I went back to the Federal Minister who then reminded me that in fact the levy cannot apply to existing agreements. In other words, all existing agreements stand. So long as Victoria continues its interstate trade in cream that is an existing agreement and it cannot be used to trigger the levy. 
I did put to the Minister that this point was not quite clear in his second reading speech in relation to cream and other milk products because in his second reading speech he said that where arrangements existed between State authorities for the supply of milk between States the levy collected on such milk should be returned to the supplying State. I repeat that he said 'milk'. Unfortunately the  Minister  should have said milk and milk products'. He did not say that but he acknowledged to me that that was what was intended. He further said that he would arrange for the Minister for Veterans' Affairs to make that point clear during the debate in this chamber. When I went back to the Victorian Minister and explained all this to him he was then quite satisfied. Weighing all these assurances and the benefits of this legislation for all dairy farmers against the matters which I mentioned at the beginning of my speech as being of concern to me, I support the legislation. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 24 March 1 977: 
1 ) For the financial years 1973-74, 1975-76 and the half year ending 3 1 December 1976, what has been the total cost of: 
a ) establishing child care centres, and 
running child care centres. 
) How many child care centres have been established. 
How many children have received care in child care centres. 
What has been the daily average number of children receiving care in child care centres. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
1 ) How many questions on notice have been asked by  Senator Colston  during the Thirtieth Parliament to date. 
) What has been the estimated cost of providing the said answers. 
I present 2 petitions, identical in wording, from 26 and 28 citizens respectively, as follows: 
To the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned students of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the decision by the Government to withdraw all forms of financial assistance to students of Non-state Tertiary Institutions is in total conflict with stated Government education policy. 
The decision will result in a shortage of places for training secretarial and clerical students and an inordinate demand upon the State Government education systems. 
At a time of severe economic disruption, this action must lead to a serious worsening of the current employment situation, particularly for school leavers. 
Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray that the Federal Government will act immediately to reverse its decision. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
As these petitions are similarly worded to one already presented I do not propose to ask to have them read. 
Petitions received. 
-To use  Senator Georges'  own words, we have just heard from him a rubbery speech. It was rubbery because it stretched our credibility. He said a lot about unemployment. To listen to him, one would think that he did not understand what is causing unemployment. Indeed, to listen to the whole Opposition, one would think that it did not understand what is causing unemployment. Let me put it in one word. It is inflation. It is inflation resulting from actions of the Opposition when in Government. This Government has been trying desperately ever since it came to office to reduce that inflation. It is now getting on top of it, but it has taken a long toll. 
Certainly it will take longer. Just in case members of the Opposition do not believe me, I ask them to listen to what the British Prime Minister said at the Labour Party conference in September 1976. He said: 
We used to think that you could just spend your way out of a recession and increase employment by cutting taxes and boosting Government spending. I tell you in all candour that that option not longer exists, and that in so far as it ever did exist, it worked by injecting inflation into the economy. 
If only the Opposition would appreciate that. High and rising wages and prices have caused businessmen to cut back, to protect themselves. They have adopted all sorts of labour-saving devices. They have reduced the number of fulltime employees, used part-time employees where necessary, and not replaced or have retrenched employees. We cannot blame the businesmen for adopting this attitude. It is up to them to maintain the profitability of their organisations, and this is how they have had to do it. At one time one would have wondered whether members of the Opposition had ever spoken to any of these businessmen. I now believe that honourable senators opposite know what they are doing. They propose massive increases in government expenditure. They know the consequence of that would be further inflation. We are living in a free enterprise system and the solution to unemployment is to encourage expansion - 
This is not a socialist economy; it is a free enterprise economy. The Government is endeavouring to reduce inflation and to give businessmen an opportunity to expand and to create more employment opportunities. On the other hand the Opposition believes in preaching proposals which would bring forward nothing more than inflation. At the same time it also preaches gloom, doom and despair. Of course we know that members of the Opposition have a vested interest in unemployment. They are aware that the best way they can achieve their aims is to talk gloom, doom and despair. They talk about unemployment and preach solutions which could not work and which they know could not work. 
Of course there is another element in our community with a vested interest in unemployment and gloom, doom and despair. I refer to the extreme left wing element in the trade union movement. I am not talking about the ordinary unionists nor their officials; I am talking about a small group of extremists. 
-In my opinion they are using people to gain political ends. I am not talking about Pommy union officials; the ones I am talking about are home-grown. The aim of these people is to overthrow our system of government. I will give  some  examples. One is the green bans that were introduced by the New South 
Wales branch of the Builders Labourers Federation led by two communists, Jack Mundey and Joe Owens. Another is the Newport ban originally introduced by Norm Gallagher, the Peking-line communist secretary of the Builders Labourers Federation in Victoria and continued by the Victorian Secretary of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, Halfpenny, who needs no introduction to the people of Australia. The overseas trade bans are enforced by the Seamen's Union of Australia, whose Federal Secretary is the notorious Eliot V. Elliott. Of course we know what he does. He is quoted in the book  Inside Australia's 100 Top Unions  as saying: 
I believe in the overthrow of capitalism and I'm doing everything I can to weaken it. 
We ought to shout that from the rooftops. We ought to make it perfectly clear to everyone in Australia that this person is trying to destroy our system. The people of Australia are aware of what these extremists are doing, and I hope they are endeavouring to isolate them. Let me mention the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation in which the Workers Student Alliance is so strong. Honourable senators will recall that earlier this year General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd offered to its employees in certain circumstances the option of having 4 days employment per week or having 800 people sacked. What happened? The union officials immediately replied: 'We won't accept the offer of 4 days employment'. In other words, the union officials admitted that they wanted their own members sacked. Look at the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union, which is causing so much trouble to the beef producers. 
-I will tell the honourable senator how it is causing trouble to the beef producers. It is stopping the sale overseas of live carcasses. I refer to an article in the  Primary Industry Survey  by  Mr H.  S. Conkey, Managing Director of Conkey and Sons Ltd. He gives some figures on the effect of loss of production in his company caused by strikes and work restrictions on the slaughter floor during the 12 months ended December 1976. He discloses that the number of cattle and sheep submitted for slaughter and the actual kill were very substantially less and that as a consequence the slaughtermen lost approximately $3,135 each in wages and the labourers on the slaughter floor each lost $3,477 in wages. That is the sort of action that this industry is involved in. In addition  Mr Conkey  assures us in the article that had his company been sure that all livestock submitted would be killed it would have employed at least 100 additional people. Can anyone say that the officials in that union do not have a vested interest in unemployment? I say to the Senate that these people are interested only in chaos and anarchy. Unemployment forms one of their main planks. 
The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  has referred to some of the Government's initiatives. In particular I refer to the initiative whereby unemployment benefits have been indexed. This is a very substantial benefit granted by the Government. 
The Budget produced last night is a good Budget. It is sound; it is sensible. It offers initiatives to people who are prepared to work, but at the same time it attacks inflation, it cuts back the deficit, it reduces the Government's own expenditure and certainly it will lead to a recovery in the economy. It is the recovery in the economy which is important to job creation. The creation of jobs will come from an economic recovery whereby the business community will be able to expand and work will become available. That is the object of this Government. It is a perfectly good object and a sound object. In the light of these comments, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
-I direct a question to  Senator Carrick  as the representative in this chamber of the Minister for Transport. It is about grants to local government for roads. Perhaps I should preface my remarks by saying that generally I have been opposed to section 96 grants but in my travels around rural Victoria I have heard numerous complaints from local government to the effect that it has not been getting adequate funds for roads. Has the Federal Government reduced the funds made available to State governments or to local government for this purpose? Have State governments been meeting their responsibilities to local government for roads out of their general grants or have the State governments cut back in this direction? 
I present the following petition from 2,286 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
. Telephone users outside major metropolitan telephone districts, particularly those conducting businesses outside those districts, suffer an unfair burden for fees charged for calls. 
The system of charging fees for calls based on the distance between non-adjoining zones instead of for the time of the call is archaic and unreasonable. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should require Telecom Australia to standardise all telephone fees for calls on a time basis so that the fee for calls of equal time be the same throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition from 896 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
Telephone users outside major metropolitan telephone districts, particularly those conducting businesses outside those districts, suffer an unfair burden for fees charged for calls. 
The system of charging fees for calls based on the distance between non-adjoining zones instead of for the time of the call is archaic and unreasonable. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should require Telecom Australia to standardise all telephone fees for calls on a time basis so that the fee for calls of equal time be the same throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications by commenting that in the early hours of this morning many thousands of Australians would have been listening to an Australian Broadcasting Commission broadcast of reports on the America's Cup yacht race. During that broadcast there was a talk-back program with calls to Sydney from all over Australia, many from Perth. The program disclosed a rare feeling of togetherness between the people on the west and east coasts of Australia. We were almost as one as a nation except that the people ringing the ABC from metropolitan Sydney were paying a flat local call fee of 9c and all others were paying varying subscriber trunk dialling rates, many at the rate of1c per second of the call. Will the Minister explain to Telecom that Australia is now one nation, that Perth and Sydney have been linked by telephone for more than 40 years and that it is about time the charges for all calls in Australia were based on time, not distance? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
What is the estimated cost of providing for  Senator Colston  the answer provided to his Senate Question No. 5 1. 
My question, directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, concerns youth employment. All independent government bodies such as the Commonwealth Banking Corporation each year budget for an intake of school leavers as trainees. Ultimately those bodies account to the Government for their profits. For example, to 30 June 1975 the Commonwealth Banking Corporation, after allowing for contingencies and tax, made a profit of $ 15.75m. Last year its profit was $35.9m. It is anticipated this will be increased very substantially by 30 June 1977. 1 ask: Is the Minister prepared to request independent government bodies to budget for a substantial increase in their intake of trainees for 1978 to help keep down the numbers of unemployed school leavers? 
I present the following petition from 1459 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
Telephone users outside major metropolitan telephone districts, particularly those conducting businesses outside those districts, suffer an unfair burden for fees charged for calls. 
The system of charging fees for calls based on the distance between non-adjoining zones instead of for the time of the call is archaic and unreasonable. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should require Telecom Australia to standardise all telephone fees for calls on a time basis so that the fee for calls of equal time be the same throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-by leave-On behalf of  Senator Rae  I move: 
That the terms of the matter referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations on 5 May 1977 be amended to read as follows: 
The continuing oversight of the financial and administrative affairs or undertakings of Commonwealth statutory authorities, and other bodies which the Commonwealth owns or controls wholly or substantially, and on the appropriateness and significance of their practice in accounting to the Parliament. 
in reply- I can only suggest that if the honourable senator wishes to refer that matter to the Committee he take the appropriate steps to do so. The matter that is before the Senate relates to investigations by the Committee into Commonwealth statutory authorities and other bodies which the Commonwealth owns or controls rather than government operations direct. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Senator Mcintosh has once again indicated and demonstrated the total failure of the members of the Opposition to appreciate that the main problem in Australia today continues to be inflation and that the main thrust of this Budget is directed at inflation. The Opposition has demonstrated throughout this debate that if it were returned to government it would inflate the economy. I hope that the people of Australia who have taken notice of this debate will take that into account at the next election, whenever that might occur. 
I do not intend to canvass the Government's initiatives in relation to this Budget. They have been well expressed by my colleagues in this chamber and in the other place. I believe that my colleagues have established beyond doubt that the Budget is sound and sensible and that its main thrust is against inflation, and that is where its thrust ought to be at the present moment. I intend to deal with only one matter which in fact is hardly touched upon in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  but it is a matter which causes me grave concern. 
Specifically, I would like to exclude from my remarks the one-parent family. I believe that the one-parent family falls into a special category which ought to be dealt with under the social welfare provisions. I intend my remarks to be about the one-income family, which is the most common arrangement in Australia under which dad works on a taxable income and mum works at home for no taxable income, caring for the home and the family. For taxation purposes she is classed as a 'dependant'. In my view that is an arrangement which ought to be encouraged in Australia. Let me say quite clearly that I have no objection to wives working. However, for centuries the division of family labour in our world has been for mum to stay at home and care for the family while dad goes out to work. Many women like this sort of arrangement. They like looking after their kids and their husband. They do the job well and they take great pride in it. I believe that it is a desirable activity and I think, as I have said, that it ought to be encouraged. But today it seems to me that many forces within our community are endeavouring to discourage this form of family structure, and one of them happens to be our taxation legislation. 
In Victoria this problem has been taken up by an organisation called the Women's Action Alliance under a very capable  president, Mrs Joan  Adamson. I congratulate  Mrs Adamson  and the people in this organisation on their work in connection with this matter and other problems in respect of the one-income family. It is my Party's philosophy to encourage family life. I read from our federal platform: 
The family is a cohesive force in society and the Liberal Party recognises the necessity for strengthening its influence. Liberals acknowledge the vital contribution of the family in the development of the individual . 
I believe that that philosophy could be encouraged in taxation legislation. Ideally I would like to see tax averaging of both the husband 's income and the wife's income. That happens in business when family partnerships are created but that faculty is not available to the wage and salary earner. There are more expensive schemes which are designed to avoid taxation but they are, of course, very costly and again they are not available to the wage and salary earner. If my Party wishes actively to encourage this form of family life I believe it should treat marriage as a partnership for taxation purposes. For example, if a young couple married and at the time of their marriage the husband was on, say, $8,000 a year and the wife was on, say, $9,000 a year, under my proposal each would be taxed on $8,500 a year. When the wife has a child and decides to remain at home to care for that child the family income would be his income only which would be only $8,000. In that event each of them would then pay tax on $4,000 as though they were in a partnership, which in fact they are. Similar proposals have been considered by the Taxation Review Committee known as the Asprey Committee which submitted its report in 
January 1975. That Committee examined the option of taxing families on what it called a unit basis. Unfortunately, ultimately it rejected that option for reasons with which I disagree and which some day I hope to debate. The Asprey Committee also looked at deductions for dependent spouses. If incomes for a married couple were not averaged, it would be possible to create a deduction for a non-working spouse which would be sufficiently large to bring about a similar result. The Asprey Committee, in its January 1975 report, said: 
At present, . . . there is a deduction of $364 for a dependent spouse . . . There are two criticisms of the concession: the first that a poor man's wife is worth less than a rich man's, the second that the concession is in any case too modest. 
Fortunately, under the new taxation system introduced in this Budget the first criticism is no longer valid. I commend the Government for correcting that situation. But the second criticism still is valid. I should like to read further what the Asprey report said about the second criticism: 
The second criticism, that the concession is too modest, is sometimes expressed by saying that the reduction in tax liability to which it gives rise is far below the total 'cost' of the dependent spouse to the income earner. However, such cost considerations do not appear to lie behind the concession, which has never amounted to much more than a token recognition that husbands have a moral and legal duty to support their wives, when dependent . . . 
Nonetheless, even as a token recognition the real value of the concession has declined significantly in recent years in the face of rapid inflation . . . 
In January 1975 the deduction was $364. Now it is $555. 1 say that that is totally inadequate as a concession for a non-working spouse. In my view, far from offering wives any real advantage to stay at home, in fact it actively encourages them to go out to work, It would be bad enough in the normal family life if they were on a par, but on this basis they are way behind scratch. 
If a wife works then both husband and wife can earn as much as $3,750 each, that is, a total of $7,500, before any tax is payable. But if the wife does not work then under the deduction system her husband's income becomes taxable when it reaches a figure of $5,484. The difference between $7,500 and $5,484 is $2,016. So the inducement for a wife to go to work is $2,016. In my view the deduction under this provision should be such that there is no financial inducement for a married woman to seek employment at low rates. If the wife wants to work that is fine by me. In particular, if she has a special skill for which she would be well paid then that would induce her to go to work. In no way am I suggesting any discrimination against a working wife. All I am asking for is a fair go for the family which decides that Mum should stay home and bring up the kids. I should like to refer to something that  Sir John  Moore said when he was bringing down the decision on the national wage case in April of this yean 
We are aware that many single-income families will not be fully compensated. But a wage adjustment is not an appropriate method of doing equal justice to the single person and the family. 
Taxation and social service provisions allow a more satisfactory avenue. 

 Sir John Moore and the Commission recognised the problem and indicated that it was not to be solved with wages but should be solved in the fields of taxation and social service. That is precisely what I am saying. In fact, the taxation legislation could actively discourage wives from working. A deduction could be made sufficiently worthwhile to induce an unskilled married woman to stay out of the work force. One consequence of that would be to soak up much of the present unemployed, unskilled work force. These examples are being cited daily in the Press. I instance an article by Ted Knez in the  Australian  last Wednesday, which reads: 
Jobs for the young will remain scarce years after the economy recovers because of the number of married women in the work force, a top employers' spokesman warned yesterday. 
The director of the Australian Council of Employers Federations,  Mr George  Polites, said the present youth unemployment crises was largely a result of the increasing proportion of married women in the labor force. 
Now that is a most desirable consequence of my suggestion. But I urge this proposal for the sake of the family, not so much for the sake of soaking up the work force. I urge this for the sake of enabling a woman who wants to stay at home to bring up her kids, to feel proud to adopt that work. In my view it is an occupation worthy of the most able in the community. I should like to repeat that so that it is clearly understood: The bunging up of children is perhaps the most important job that any person can undertake. It is a job that should be adopted by both husband and wife in a family. In particular, the consequences to a child being brought up with both parents out working have been demonstrated in many countries to be most unreasonable for the child. As I said, in my review, in Australia it is an occupation worthy of the most able in our community. 
Under the present legislation a wife and mother may feel some pride in her occupation but she will have the lingering worry that while she is not earning a separate income she is a financial burden to her family. The publicity which has been given to women's libbers and equal pay provisions for women have brought some married to feel inferior, to think that they are not making a worthwhile contribution. Those thoughts are, of course, nonsense. The concern of the non-income earning married is most understandable but it is also most undesirable. In my view, no Liberal government should suffer it and I shall continue to put those views to the Government. In all other aspects I shall support the Bills. I spoke during an urgency debate earlier in the year and I expressed then my view generally about the Budget. I should just like to repeat what I said at that stage: 
It offers initiative to people who are prepared to work, but at the same time it attacks inflation, it cuts back the deficit, it reduces the Government's own expenditure and certainly it will lead to a recovery in the economy. 
-There is one matter to which I would like to refer. It arises out of an interjection by  Senator Mulvihill  when  Senator Sim  was speaking.  Senator Mulvihill  referred to the Bay of Pigs and of course the implication there was that in some way this legislation might authorise someone to take action outside Australia or even within Australia. I want to draw attention to clause 5 of the Bill which sets out the functions of the Office of National Assessments. One can see from that clause- and I would like the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  to confirm this-that so far as that sort of action is concerned the Bill in no way authorises outside Australia or even within Australia any action of the nature implied in the interjection by  Senator Mulvihill.  I draw attention to the particular sub-clauses. Clause 5 (1) reads: 
to assemble and correlate information . . . 
to furnish reports . . . 
to ensure that international developments  are assessed . . . ; and 
to keep under review . . . 
I have the view that in no way does this Bill give anybody power to act clandestinely anywhere and I would ask the Minister to confirm that. 
I would also like to mention in passing in reference to the interjection about the Bay of Pigs that it does raise the question of Central Intelligence Agency activity and I would like to refer to the problem of disinformation, as it is called. Earlier this year the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  found it necessary to make a public statement about efforts in Australia to expose some of Australia's most closely held secrets and to publicise allegations based on hearsay, or worse, to the embarrassment of Australia's relations with the United States, our closest ally. There is no doubt that in Australia we are subjected to disinformation. Politicians are not the only ones who persuade by means of propaganda. Others within Australia make clever use of the media and what is wanted is careful analytical assessment. I trust that this Bill will provide that sort of assessment for our Government. 
-I ask a question of the Minister for Administrative Services relating to a report today that last year the number of public servants retiring through ill health doubled. Is the Minister aware of the reasons for that increase? If not, will he seek an explanation and report on it? In particular, will the Minister advise whether or not the current retirement provisions encourage early retirement if a medical certificate of poor health can be obtained? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer or to the Minister for Education. Is the Minister aware of an interview with  Mr Samuel  on  Monday Conference  in which he said that while investigating the allegation that the Australian National University was facing a crisis over cash he was handed a circular distributed from the University which said that it had $90,000 to spare and it did not know what to do with it. He said it was a questionnaire to members of the staff asking them what they thought the surplus money should be spent on. Some of the suggestions were a holiday camp on the South Coast, a holiday farm, a nudist camp, scholarships for the children of staff, an alpine lodge in the Snowy Mountains, donations to charity, canteen facilities, a child care centre, a do-it-yourself car service facility, a fishing lodge in the Jindabyne area, a gymnasium, and a heated swimming pool. Those were some of the suggestions from staff of the University. Will the Minister examine the possibility of calling university administrators before our Estimates Committees so that they can be questioned about these matters? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I refer to a speech made yesterday by the Leader of the Opposition in another place about the Federal Government's excellent education policies. I ask: Can the Minister say what are the threats to the independence of the Schools Commission and whether the Government's federalism policy will operate to throw the responsibility for government schools back to the States? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and follows the question asked by  Senator Knight.  Is the Australian National University a Commonwealth authority? In other words, is it owned by the Australian Government? 
-The Commonwealth Government. Is the Minister saying that university staff and equipment are used to provide a service in the community in competition with private industry? Do the commissions received by the ANU total $90,000? Is the Minister seriously suggesting that that sum of money may be validly used by the ANU to provide staff amenities? 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General and refers to the appointment of  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Treyvaud to the 
Family Court in Victoria. I congratulate the Government on its appointment and ask the Attorney-General why it is that only one additional judge has been appointed to that Court. 
-I wish to say a few words about this legislation and I will be very brief. It causes me concern, too. It seems to me that, arising from a conference, we have the makings of a sweetheart deal between the employers, on the one hand, and not just the employees on the other hand, but in fact a monopoly union representing the employees. This deal is being supported by legislation being passed through this Parliament. The matter that causes me concern is in what way are we looking after the interests of people who are not parties to the proposed agreement. It is a simple question. I pose that question to the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack).  I would be grateful if he would indicate to the Senate the way in which the interests of the people of Australia will be protected against the sorts of things raised by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. After all, it is very easy for a union representing employee interests to make applications to an employer for all sorts of added benefits and for that employer to find reasons to place before the Prices Justification Tribunal for increasing charges to cover the advantages that it is necessary to provide for the employees. I ask the Attorney-General: In what way will we be looking after the interests of the people of Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to the definition of 'consumer transactions' in section 4b of the Trade Practices Act, under which purchases of goods exceeding $15,000 in price receive no protection unless they are for personal, domestic or household use. I draw attention to the cost of equipment used by primary producers and small businessmen, for example, harvesters, printing plant and pie cookers, all of which fall outside that definition. I ask the Minister whether he would consider amending the definition to include such plant and, indeed, to include all goods in the hands of the ultimate consumer. 
I present the following petition from 865 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
Telephone users outside major metropolitan telephone districts, particularly those conducting businesses outside those districts, suffer an unfair burden for fees charged for calls. 
The system of charging fees for calls based on the distance between non-adjoining zones instead of for the time of the call is archaic and unreasonable. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should require Telecom Australia to standardize all telephone fees for calls on a time basis so that the fee for calls of equal time be the same throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs aware of the recent attempt to disrupt the operation of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs through the sudden dumping by some clever Dicks in the Labor Party of an extremely large number of applications for citizenship upon that Department's Melbourne office? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 19 August 1977: 
Has the Federal Government reduced funds made available to State and Local Governments for road purposes. 
Have State Governments been meeting their responsibilities to local governments for road purposes out of general grants made available to them, or have they cut back on local government grants for road purposes. 
I present the following petition from 753 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
.  Telephone users outside major metropolitan telephone districts, particularly those conducting businesses outside those districts, suffer an unfair burden for fees charged for calls. 
The system of charging for calls on the basis of distance between non-adjoining zones instead of for the time of the call is unreasonable. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should require Telecom Australia to meter all calls, including local calls, and charge a uniform rate on a time basis regardless of distance between calling parties. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I refer to the present state of the Australian car manufacturing industry and to the current price of Australian cars. In particular, I refer to the continued imposition of sales tax at a rate of 27 per cent on new non-commercial vehicles. Will the Government consider reducing the sales tax rate on new cars which are wholly manufactured in Australia in an attempt to increase the sales volume of Australian cars and to increase the whole market rather than to impose further burdens on imported cars in order to restrict their sales share of a nonincreasing market? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, by referring to the apparent discovery of quite substantial fishing areas within the 200-mile limit of the coast, and the many cases being presented for proposed joint ventures with overseas countries and companies. Has his attention been drawn to the report last Friday in the  Australian Financial Review of  an alleged $ 100m trade deal involving a proposed joint fishing venture with the Russians? Will the Minister say whether the Government is considering any form of trade-off, whereby Australian fishing rights would be given in exchange for the sale of some other Australian product such as beef? Is that  proposal  being considered by the Minister for Primary Industry and the Cabinet? 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence is along the lines of the question asked by  Senator Douglas  McClelland on the so-called problem of guarding Australia's coastline. Do the Royal Australian Air Force and Fleet Air Arm have any Orion or Tracker aircraft, and facilities available for them to be deployed at airfields along our northern coastline? Would it not be possible to organise, for the better utilisation of the Air Force and the Fleet Air Arm, aircraft on roundtheclock surveillance duties to our north, by the provision of additional crews? Would not such increased utilisation be more economical than the provision of new aircraft for a coast guard type service? 
I rise to make what is, in fact, my maiden adjournment speech. I am bound to do so because of a speech made in the adjournment debate last night in this chamber by  Senator Primmer. 
Yes, he has drawn blood. In this chamber last night  Senator Primmer  alleged widespread malpractices in the meat export industry. Those allegations were answered in part today in another place by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  He said: 
. it would seem that there is no basis now for  Senator Primmer  's allegations. However if he has any facts that he wishes to disclose in confidence to either the Commonwealth Police or the Department, of course they would be only too pleased to follow those allegations further. 

 Senator Primmer is challenged as to whether he has any further information to disclose. Having opened with these allegations in a way which would undoubtedly receive widespread publicity,  Senator Primmer  then proceeded to slander two Liberal members of the Legislative Assembly in Victoria.  His  allegations received widespread publicity in this morning's Victorian newspapers both in Melbourne and in country areas. They were repeated on Australian Broadcasting Commission news programs on the radio and, this evening, on television. 
I believe that under the privilege of the Parliament  Senator Primmer  has grossly maligned two of my colleagues. I know these two gentlemen. They are fine people. They have been bucketed throughout this country under the privilege of the Parliament. Last night during the adjournment debate there was discussion about the misuse of privilege. I claim that there was a very grave misuse of the privilege of this chamber last night. To justify my claim I turn to extracts from the Hamilton  Spectator.  On 5 January, which is more than two months ago, the Hamilton  Spectator  published the article to which  Senator Primmer  referred last night. That article concerned the transfer from Hamilton of a regional meat inspector by the name of Mackie. On any fair reading of the article there was little enough of a peg on which to hang a claim that  Mr Burgin  and  Mr McCabe  were involved with illegal meat slaughtering operations. In one paragraph of the article it was alleged that unauthorised slaughtering was taking place at Timboon and that  Mr Burgin  owned some cattle which had been slaughtered there. In another paragraph it was alleged that a relative of  Mr McCabe  owned some abattoirs over which there was a dispute about improvements. From that article, as small as it was,  Senator Primmer  said: 
Newspaper reports of these illegal meat slaughtering operations allege that prominent Western Districts Liberals are involved. Two Liberal MLAs were named amongst those allegedly involved. They were  Mr C.  Burgin, the member for Polwarth, and  Mr J.  McCabe, the member for Lowan. 
Here is the rub. On 26 January 1978, some 40 days before  Senator Primmer  spoke in this chamber, the  Spectator  published a full and complete retraction under the heading 'We were wrong'. The  Spectator  firstly acknowledged that its report of 5 January suggested that unauthorised slaughtering had been taking place at the Timboon abattoirs. The article continued: 
Records of interviews between the abattoir operator and two department meat inspectors who conducted the Timboon raid contain references to a carcass owned by a person identified simply as ' Burgin '. 
Sources - 
Whoever they might be-  led the  Spectator  to believe the Burgin in question was the member for Polwarth. 
The  Spectator  has no evidence to support this assertion and accepts  Mr Burgin  's denial of involvement. 
We apologise for any inconvenience or embarrassment this may have caused him. 
Our report further suggested that  Mr Jim  McCabe, the MLA for Lowan, was related to the owner of abattoirs at Dimboola, where there had been a dispute over improvements, and suggested that  Mr Mackie  's transfer was punishment for treading on political toes, including  Mr McCabe  's. 
In fact, the Dimboola abattoirs are owned by  Mr R.  M. Bush, who is in no way related to  Mr McCabe. 
The  Spectator  acknowledges the misleading nature of its report as relating to  Mr McCabe,  and unreservedly withdraws any imputations regarding  Mr McCabe  's good reputation, character and integrity. 
I believe it behoved  Senator Primmer  when he was preparing the speech that he delivered here last night to verify the allegations to some extent, especially when he had 40 days in which to check up on them. A simple inquiry of this newspaper would have disclosed the truth. In making the speech that he did in the circumstances and with all the attendent publicity that he received I believe that  Senator Primmer  has grossly misused his position and the privileges of this chamber. But I go further. I ask whether at the time  Senator Primmer  made his speech he in fact knew of the retraction which had been published in the Hamilton  Spectator.  I challenge him to say whether or not he knew of that retraction and apology before he spoke last night and, if he did know, why did he not tell this chamber about it. 

 Senator PRIMMER (Victoria) &lt; 1 1.17)- I crave the indulgence of the Senate to reply to the remarks made by  Senator Lewis.  I can assure him that I did know of the retraction made by the Hamilton  Spectator  40 days ago, but at this point in time I stand by everything I said last night. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government and refer to the suggestion that members of parliament and top public servants should lose their pensions for the duration of any government jobs they might accept after retirement. Does the Government believe that people would accept appointment on such terms or does it recognise that adoption of the suggestion might well mean that the particular skills and talents of these people would be permanently lost to the Government? Would the rule apply to appointments to statutory authorities, State public services and semi-government instrumentalities? Perhaps it is proposed that the rule should apply to appointments to private enterprise to force the people concerned never to work again. Would there not be loopholes whereby independent companies could employ these experts and, at an increased fee of course, provide their services to the Government by way of some independent sub-contract? In short, does  the Government not recognise that the suggestion is a nonsense? 
I address a question to the Minister for Education. It concerns the relationship between unemployed teachers and Federal Government expenditure on education. Has the Minister seen the report headed 'Jobless teachers "victims" of cuts' which appears in the  Australian  newspaper today and in which the  President  of the Australian Teachers Federation states that unemployed teachers are the victims of Federal Government cuts in public spending? Can the Minister say whether this is so? If it is not, what are the facts? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Trade and Resources. It concerns the sale of Australian canned fruit in Canada. Is the Minister aware that the Canadian Tariff Board has recommended the termination of preferential access to the Canadian market for canned fruit from Australia, notwithstanding that specific duties have been losing value as commodity prices have risen? Will the effect be to increase significantly levels of local protection in Canada against our canned fruit? Will the Minister direct our trade representatives to make representations that the recommendation be declined or deferred? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. The Minister will recognise from my question that I have been studying an overseas trade journal. My question is about the sale of Australian products in the Netherlands. Is the Minister aware that Dutch importers claim that the reasons that not more of our products are sold in the Netherlands are inadequate representations, poorly presented offers and sales literature, and lack of vigour in following up sales products? Is he also aware that Dutch importers claim that the long freight haul is not a major obstacle and that they point to the success of other countries, notably Japan, in overcoming this disadvantage? Will the Minister follow up these claims? 
I apologise to honourable senators for delaying them tonight but I believe I must make reference to two newspaper reports which I have read recently. The first report appeared on the front page of the  Australian Financial Review  of Friday, 3 March 1978. It was headed: 
Russia's $ 100m a year trade deal. 
At a cursory glance it would appear from the report that there was a Russian proposal for fishing our off-shore waters to establish an industry worth $100m per annum. The front page refers to a submission to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  It mentions Russian research and technology and states that the Russian state fishing organisation V/O Sovrybflot has a 45 per cent interest in the venture. One would think that if it had a 45 per cent interest in the venture then 55 per cent would be available for Australians. The front page article then flies a few general kites about our off-shore fishing zones and trade with Japan, and it refers to the sale of beef to Russia last year. That reference caused great concern to many of our fishermen. 
I am particularly concerned about our fishermen in south-eastern waters. Investigations in those waters off Portland indicate large fishing resources. Local fishermen there have heard all sons of rumours. In particular they have heard rumours about trade-offs of fish for beef. They have also heard stories of Russian fishing fleets scavenging whole areas in northern waters. This kind of story on the front page of the  Australian Financial Review  certainly does not help to allay their fears. When I turned inside the newspaper for continuation of the story I immediately came across the name of  Mr Bruce  Fasham described as a director of Commercial Bureau. As I read further it became clear that I was reading a Press release by  Mr Fasham.  Further analysis indicated that the trade deal was only a proposal to the Minister for Primary Industry. My suspicions were aroused when I realised that the Press release must have been made at or about the same time as  Mr Fasham  made his submission to the Government. 
The Press statement and presumably the submission alleged that V/O Sovrybflot had a 45 per cent interest in the venture. But the proposal was not being made on behalf of the Russians. It was being made for a Victorian company named Commercial Bureau (Australia) Pty Ltd. The proposal was that another company be formed in which the Russians would be given a 45 per cent interest and Australian fishermen would be offered some shares in yet another company which is already in existence and which would be given a 27 per cent interest, leaving  Mr Fasham  's company with a 28 per cent interest in a $100m annual project. It seemed to me that Commercial Bureau (Australia) Pty Ltd warranted some further investigation. I organised a search of that company at the Victorian Companies Office. That search disclosed that the company, Commercial Bureau (Australia) Pty Ltd, was incorporated on 21 January 1976; that is about 26 months ago. It has an issued capital of only $2. 
As a lawyer I know that when most companies are incorporated their share capital is only $2. But usually, some short time after incorporation, their issued capital is increased. After two years the capital of this company is still only $2. In fact, its nominal capital is $ 10,000 so the most it could issue at the present moment would be $10,000. One $ 1 share has been issued to a  Mr Laurence  Matheson, a company director of Moscow. My  information is that  Mr Matheson  is an Australian, formerly in the Royal Australian Navy, formerly with the Australian Trade Commissioner Service and apparently now a company director in Moscow. The other share has been issued to a  Mr Michael  Salvaris  who is  apparently  a surgeon in Carlton, Victoria. The three directors are named as  Mr Matheson;  Christine Eve Matheson, also of Moscow, and as her occupation is home duties I assume she is  Mr Matheson  's wife; and  Mr Michael  Salvaris.  Mr Bruce  Thomas Fasham is not named as a director but he is named as the general manager of the company. 
This $2 company is putting to our Government a deal worth $100m a year which would give it an annual income of $560,000. That is not bad for starters. The second newspaper report which attracted my attention was in the Melbourne  Herald  of 14 March, that is yesterday. In that report  Mr Fasham  had another go with his high pressure tactics. The Melbourne  Herald  reported him as accusing Australians of having an immature attitude to the Soviet Union and suggesting that his deal was very attractive to Australians. I have no doubt that  Mr  Farsham  thinks his deal is attractive but the fishermen at Portland disagree with him. To accept  Mr Fasham  's proposals without full and careful study and a comparison with the many alternative Australian proposals to develop this resource, in my view would be unsound. If we want to do a deal with a foreign country, let us do it direct. In the last week or so there have been many questions and answers and the Minister has made a statement. He has written to me in reply to one of my questions. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a copy of the Minister's reply. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

MINISTER FOR PRIMARY INDUSTRY 
10 Mar 1978 
Dear  Senator Lewis, 

 Senator Webster has referred to me your question of 7 March  (Hansard  page 359) concerning a feasibility fishing proposal submitted by a new joint venture company, Sovaust Fisheries Pty. Ltd. 
This is one of a number of proposals I have received since my media release of 1 9 January advising that the Australian Fisheries Council (comprising Commonwealth and State fisheries ministers) has agreed guidelines for feasibility fishing involving foreign interests in Australian waters. The thrust of the guidelines is to enable short term arrangements involving foreign vessels to assist in determining the extent and economic feasibility of fishing relatively unknown offshore fisheries resources. Such operations, if approved, would not conflict with existing Australian fisheries or be permitted in fisheries where Australians have a clearly defined interest. 
Consideration of any fisheries project involving foreigners would take into account our overall relationships with the country concerned. Specific trade off proposals along the lines you suggest are not contemplated, particularly where they could affect individual primary producers in an unrelated industry. 
Yours sincerely, IAN SINCLAIR 
The Government very properly takes the view that the long-term interests of Australia, Australian fishermen and Australian supporting industry must be the first consideration. The Minister has made it clear that there will not be specific trade-off proposals such as fish for beef. I trust that the Government will not be stampeded by tactics of the type adopted by  Mr Fasham  with his present proposal. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to page 194 of the report on Australian transport for 1976-77, which includes a table showing the results of examinations for marine certificates of competency and discloses a very high failure rate in examinations for master, mate and engineer. I ask: Does the high failure rate of candidates indicate that a standard has been developed to restrict the number of successful candidates? 
I think my question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate although I am not certain. I know that he will not have read yesterday's  Canberra Times  so I shall preface the question by referring to part of it which states that the Australian Film Commission had announced that three members of the Commission had left for China the day before to discuss exchanges of film between Australia and China. Who is responsible for the fares and expenses of the three members of the Australian Film Commission travelling to China? Apparently the Leader of the Government is trying to find out who is going to answer the question. Does the Government think that it is necessary for three members of the Film Commission to travel to China in order to discuss film exchanges? 
I ask a question of  Senator Carrick,  the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It is about reduced charges for telex messages outside metropolitan areas. I ask whether Telecom Australia has recently announced reduced charges for telex messages outside metropolitan areas. Did the Managing Director of Telecom claim that the effect of the reductions would be to save customers up to 50 per cent on their present telex bills? Is this an acknowledgment that the transmission time of telex messages, not the distance over which they are sent, is the major cost factor? If so, will the Minister ask Telecom to apply the same principle to trunk telephone calls? If not, will the Minister advise whether the purpose of the reduction is to attract country subscribers to the Telex service in preference to the telephone service? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence a question dealing with Australian industrial participation in the contract for the German Leopard tank. I ask: Did the contract with Krausse Maffei, the maker of the Leopard tank, allow it to avoid Australian industrial participation if Australian made items were not competitive in price, quality and delivery? What steps were taken by the Government to ensure that the local defence industry, not just government factories, were given early and guaranteed access to sub-contracts? What subcontracts, if any, have the local defence industry and/or Australian Government factories obtained in relation to that tank? 
-We have heard some very interesting diversions tonight, but I should like to come back to the Bill- the Maritime College Bill 1978. I support the Bill and congratulate the Government. I congratulate the Government on the introduction of such an institution and on the choice of its site. I say that as a Victorian. I congratulate the Government for choosing a provincial city, not a capital city. Far too often, organisations are established in capital cities, on the recommendations of very sound, sensible men. Quite clearly, if we were to adopt the most economic situation for every institution in Australia, they would be established in the heart of Sydney or Melbourne. I am pleased to support any government proposal for the establishment of an institution outside of those capital cities, because Australia comprises far more than just the metropolises of Melbourne and Sydney. The Government chose Launceston and a site adjoining the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education. 
I congratulate Tasmania as the successful applicant State. Across Bass Strait, I may say, we looked with some envy at the choice of Launceston. Certainly Warrnambool, with the Warrnambool Institute of Advanced Education established in that provincial city, would have liked to have had the College. With the adjoining fishing port of Port Fairy, and the large shipping port of Portland very near, I can assure honourable senators that south-western Victoria tried very hard to get this College established in its district. Nevertheless, we congratulate Tasmania. 
The purpose of this legislation is to provide maritime-related education and training for people who wish to become, or are, officers on merchant or fishing vessels. This College will be able to award degrees, diplomas and certificates in relation to the passing of examinations and otherwise. With the agreement of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  it will be able to conduct short courses of maritime training and to conduct examinations and assessments for marine competency in accordance with the Navigation Act. I will come back to that in a few moments. 
In short, it is a College for practical seamen. There will need to be practical courses. I know that they intend to start that way, because I have spoken with Captain Waters, the Principal, and it is clear that he is well aware of the need to have practical courses. The experience which I have of institutions such as this is that it is very difficult for them to maintain their practicality in the face of academic desires to establish all sorts of peripheral courses. In my view, it depends a great deal on the Council. Certainly, it is important that the Principal of the institution be a practical man. By 'practical', I mean a practical seaman. In my view, the Council of the College should also have on it a large number of professional practical seamen. The legislation does not have any prerequisites as to the qualifications of the members of the Council. I think it should have. I think the Government, when establishing bodies such as this, should consider having in the legislation some minimum requirements as to the qualifications of councillors. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-Before the adjournment of the debate I was saying that in my view the legislation should provide for a certain number of practical professional seamen to be on the Council. That provision is not contained in the Bill but nevertheless there are appointment provisions. I hope that enough professional seamen will be appointed to the Council to ensure that it will not be overwhelmed by well intentioned landlubbers, bureaucrats and academics in its desires to have the College act in a practical manner. Perhaps at least one half of the members of the Council should be people with at least ten years seagoing experience, with appropriate certificates of competency. 
I mentioned earlier that the courses available would include examinations and assessments for marine competency. I asked the Government to look at the matter of certificates of competency for seamen and in particular the revalidation of those certificates. At present certificates of competence last a lifetime. I am advised that they can be suspended only on two counts, that is, by marine boards of inquiry where misconduct or the hazarding of a ship has been involved or by the Minister when the question of the holder being medically unfit arises. It seems to me to be unbelievable that in the late 1970s when there are so many rapid advances in matters of navigation and when the size of ships is growing enormously a person can be the captain of a ship when he may have earned his certificate of competency 30-odd years ago and perhaps he has not been to sea for the last 20-odd years. 
I believe that there may be other areas where that principle ought to be applied but at this stage I am not prepared to commit myself without considering it. Certainly, from a practical point of view I do not believe that captains of ships should be able to rely on a certificate of competency which may be many years old and when the captain may not have had recent seagoing experience. In other words, I believe there ought to be some sort of renewal experience. I might add, for  Senator Wriedt  's consideration, that I also believe that that principle should apply to the drivers of motor vehicles. I understand there is nothing new in this proposal. Certificates of competency which were issued when ships were powered by sail were endorsed for steam at the time of the introduction of steam for captains who had previously had endorsements only for sail. So it is not really a new proposal for the merchant navy. 
I turn to the question of the staff of the College. Section 26 of the Bill provides that the principal of the College, in the first instance, may be appointed for five years and that therafter- in other words, after the first term has expired- the appointments may be for seven years. That seems to me to be a proper limitation. It seems to me to be right and proper that the principal of the College ought to have a reasonable term of office. But after a period of years his reappointment comes up for consideration. In relation to the other staff members we find that clause 28 of the Bill states:   the staff of the College shall be employed on such terms and conditions as the Council determines. 
There are no legislative restrictions, no limitations and no maxima or guidelines suggested. I am not suggesting that this is unusual in relation to the Maritime College. In fact it is similar to the position in other institutions. That is a pity. Let us look at the situation of the Australian National University which has a similar provision in its legislation. I am most disconcerted by at least one paragraph in the 1976 Report of the Australian National University. This paragraph is contained in the Vice-Chancellor's report and it appears on page 6. Apparently a couple of studies were conducted at the University about certain matters referred to in the report. The Vice-Chancellor states: 
A more disconcerting picture emerged from a parallel study of the striking extent to which the academic staff during the next two decades is likely to remain unchanged. 
That is just one simple sentence but what the Vice-Chancellor is saying is that the academic staff of the ANU will remain unchanged for the next 20 years. The Vice-Chancellor continued: 
The implications of this have begun to be recognised in - 
He then lists five points. The fifth point is: 
. and in a marked switch to non-tenure positions for new appointments. 
I was intrigued by that statement and I started to apply my mind to what was meant by 'nontenure appointments '. I found out that in the academic world tenure means a permanent appointment. In other words, that is an appointment for life. Non-tenure means an appointment for a specific term. Some inquiries made at the ANU disclosed to me that in its School of General Studies, which is the basic teaching school for undergraduates, only 78 out of 422 staff members are non-tenured. In other words, less than 20 per cent of people in the School of General Studies at the ANU have been appointed for a term of years. All the rest have been appointed for life. There are complicated means for the university to rid itself of any tenured appointee who is unwelcome. That requires those people to be paid all sorts of retiring allowances. There are many difficulties involved in changing staff at an institution where most of the members have been given an appointment for life. In relation to the ANU, one wonders whether it was lack of foresight, bad planning or perhaps a necessary consequence of other factors. 
Quite clearly, as the honourable senator says, it is not only the ANU. Most of the academic institutions in Australia at present are suffering from this problem. But the figures for the ANU were readily available to me. I really do not suggest that it has been lack of foresight or bad planning. I suggest it has been a necessary consequence of other factors. In other words, I suggest that in order to get the right staff members the institution has had to offer terms and conditions which were perhaps better than they should have been. I discovered that the issue of tenure as against non-tenure has been argued in academic circles for many years. I think it is about time that our Government had a look at the matter of tenure in post-secondary appointments and perhaps also had a look at the matter of sabbaticals and study leave. When the Government has made the decision on maxima in connection with these matters, it should introduce amending legislation in relation to bodies which are under its control. Quite frankly, these questions are far too important to leave to the academics who after all have a deep financial interest in their own determinations. Finally may I say in relation to the Maritime College that in my view the legislation should contain some minimum requirement for professional people on the staff at the institution. 
Debate interrupted. 
I wonder whether the Minister has had time to consider the suggestions which I made last evening about the need to have practical professional seamen on the Council of the Australian Maritime College. I suggested that the legislation should provide that a percentage- perhaps 50 per cent, although that may be a little high- of the members of the Council should be holders of current certificates of marine competency. If the Minister does not agree with that suggestion, will he agree that at least a certain number of the persons appointed under clause 11 (1) (b) by the Governor-General should be holders of current certificates of marine competency? 
I wonder whether the Minister can express a view on the suggestion which I made last evening in my speech on the second reading debate about the possibility of re-examinations for certificates of marine competency for marine officers who have not been at sea for some years. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence and again relates to the German manufactured Leopard tanks which are being supplied to Australia. What is the quarterly allowance of practice ammunition for each tank crew? How does this practice allowance compare with the quarterly allowances of practice ammunition allocated to each tank crew in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation forces equipped with Leopard tanks? Do overseas suppliers of this ammunition advise a delay in supply of about two years, and is it correct that the orders for this ammunition now placed with Australian Government factories involve a delay in supply of about three years? Did de Havilland Australia make an offer to the Department of Defence for the production of practice shot with a delay time of only nine months and did the Department of Defence reject a proposal in offset arrangements that Vickers-Ruwolt manufacture 3,000 sets of tank track with assembly at the Department of Productivity factory at Lithgow? 
-I refer the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  to the last line of clause 18(2) which states: 
. shall not be present during any deliberation of the Council with respect to that matter. 
It is the word 'deliberation' which causes me some concern because legislation of this type has been introduced in Victoria in relation to local government. As I understand it, the Victorian experience is that often a council is deprived of the knowledge and wisdom of the councillors who know most about the subject under discussion. That is what worries me in this provision. It may be that the people who have to leave when the subject is being debated are the very people whose views ought to be heard. One can discount their views by taking into account the fact that they have an interest, and I agree that perhaps they ought not to vote on any decision to be made by the council. But not to be able to put their expert view, which I take it is the correct interpretation, is, I think, an unfortunate consequence of the wording of this clause. 
-I refer to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  the matter which I raised last night concerning the possibility that this legislation should contain limitations on the terms and conditions of the staff of the College. I am not suggesting that the legislation should get down to fine details but the question of the general terms of appointment of staff causes me concern. In clause 26-1 appreciate that we are dealing with clause 28- the Bill quite specifically limits the term of the appointment of the first principal to five years and the term of the appointment of any subsequent principal to seven years. Yet clause 28 divests the Parliament of any limitation on the appointment of staff and authorises the College to employ its staff on such terms and conditions as the council determines. 
It seems to me that the terms of appointment of staff should include such matters as whether they are appointed on a tenured basis, that is for life, or on a non-tenured basis, that is for a term of years; whether staff are to have sabbaticals after three years, five years, seven years or ten years; whether staff are to be entitled to study leave after any specified term of office. It seems to me that they are matters on which the Parliament should express its views with regard to a maxima. I believe that the Government should make a decision on these matters and include them in this legislation and I anticipate that they should be included in further legislation which will soon be coming before the Senate in relation to other educational institutions to be established by the Commonwealth. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I acknowledge that the first part of the question might be thought to be slightly parochial, but I suggest that it is not more so than some other questions asked in the Senate chamber. Is the Minister aware that the public telephone booth and also the letterbox at Toolondo, Victoria, have been removed, leaving no public telephone access between Noradjuha and Balmoral, a distance of approximately 60 miles? Will the Minister arrange for these facilities to be replaced? The second part of the question is perhaps more appropriate to this chamber. Have the authorities under the Minister's control adopted a general policy of removing rural services which do not return to the Department a satisfactory profit? Does the Government believe that all Australians should live in large cities? If not, will the Minister direct the authorities under his control to alter their present policies of closing small rural services? 
-I ask the Minister for Education whether the Government is concerned that a substantial proportion of the academic staff of the Australian National University are likely to remain in their positions during the next twenty years? Has this been caused by the fact that a large percentage of the current academic staff hold tenured appointments, that is, appointments for life? Will the Government give further consideration to the question of tenured appointments in the post-secondary institutions that come under its control, and introduce guidelines in this matter? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Science in his own capacity and also as the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to research grants to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation's Fisheries and Oceanography Division. Is the study of the protective effect of selenium against the toxic action of mercury compounds in fish important? Is it the practice to permit the interruption of research projects such as this to give personnel engaged on them an opportunity to take sabbatical leave? If not, what were the circumstances which allowed the project supervisor of this study to take sabbatical leave during the course of it? Would it not have been better if he had deferred the sabbatical leave until the research project had been completed? What will be the additional costs to the project as a result of the rise in the consumer price index during this deferment? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. It relates to the 2 1st annual report of the operation of the Fishing Industry Act for the year ended 30 June 1977. 1 refer to the section dealing with the supervision of the  Irene M  purse seine operations which, for the benefit of the Minister and honourable senators, reads: 
An experienced purse seine operator was made available for approximately one month to supervise the handling of Commonwealth equipment (notably a purse seine net, replacement value approximately $45,000) whilst on loan to a company to demonstrate purse seining for jack mackerel to overseas visitors- 
This is the important part-  interested in investing in an Australian project. Although the operations were successful no foreign participation resulted. 
From which overseas countries did these visitors come? Have these countries since made any proposals for other joint fishing ventures with Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, without notice, on 6 April 1 978: 
I ask whether Telecom Australia has recently announced reduced charges for telex messages outside metropolitan areas. Did the Managing Director of Telecom claim that the effect of the reductions would be to save customers up to 50 per cent on their present telex bills? Is this an acknowledgement that the transmission time of telex messages, not the distance over which they are sent, is the major cost factor? If so, will the Minister ask Telecom to apply the same principle to trunk telephone calls? if not, will the Minister advise whether the purpose of the reduction is to attract country subscribers to the telex service in preference to the telephone service? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services and Minister representing the Minister for Defence and relates to the regulations governing the award of the National Medal. These regulations list as eligible members of the Defence Force, the Australian Police Force, the Australian Fire Service and the Australian Ambulance Service. I ask: Has any action been taken to consider for this award servicemen in all these services who were eligible by length of service but who retired prior to the introduction of the award, in particular those servicemen of the armed forces who have continued Service obligations through membership of the Emergency Reserve Forces? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
What will be the estimated finance advantage in 1977-78 to Victoria from other States consequent upon the implementation of Stage I of the Australian dairy industry marketing arrangements. 
I present the following petition from 294 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That Item 6469 of the standard Medical Benefits Table is the means by which payment is made for the slaughter of thousands of unborn babies every year. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government should ensure that Item 6469 is removed from the standard Medical Benefits Table. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct to the Minister representing the Treasurer a question concerned with the interest rate being charged by banks on Bankcard. Can the Minister say whether banks in Australia have acted in concert in striking an interest rate of 1 8 per cent for Bankcard? Is the 18 per cent interest rate subject to an interim authorisation under the Trade Practices Act? If so, when will the matter be dealt with by the Trade Practices Commission? Has the Government considered that Bankcard is being used as a device to enable banks to lend money at exorbitant finance company rates instead of at overdraft rates? Do Bankcard accounts express the interest charges at a rate per month and not per annum? Is this practice not a rip-off of people who are persuaded by extensive advertising programs to use this system instead of paying by cash or by cheque and who formerly have had confidence in their banks and may not now appreciate the very high rate of interest being charged? I ask: Firstly, will the Minister take some steps to encourage a more competitive approach to Bankcard interest rates so that banks might follow the downward trend of other interest rates? Secondly, will the Minister expedite a hearing of the matter by the Trade Practices Commission? Finally, will the Minister require banks to disclose the annual rate of interest on all Bankcard accounts? 
-This evening we have heard two Opposition senators speak in this debate. I thought that both honourable senators were intending to oppose uranium mining in Australia. It was fascinating to hear both of them give away any such objections at the end of their speeches. Earlier in the evening we heard  Senator O  'Byrne at the very finish of his speech throw in his hand when he recommended to the Government that it should tread very warily. He acknowledged that uranium could be of tremendous advantage to mankind, subject to certain safeguards. That is precisely what the Government is doing by these Bills which we are considering tonight and by the other Bills in the package of legislation which we will consider at a later stage.  Senator Button  also gave it away at the finish of his speech when he talked about empty rhetoric, the freedom of discussion and debate and the pros and cons concerning uranium mining. It seemed to me that so long as there was an opportunity for the expression of freedom of opinion about uranium mining in Australia,  Senator Button  would have no objection to it other than that he would not have used the vehicle of the Atomic Energy Act for this purpose. 
The Atomic Energy Act, which will be amended by the first Bill that is the subject of the debate tonight, was chosen by the Australian Labor Party when it was in government as the vehicle for the task that it was contemplating. On 31 October 1974, the Whitlam Labor Government tabled in the Parliament a statement announcing large scale uranium development in the Northern Territory, commencing with the exploitation of the Ranger deposit, to be followed by the development of the Nabarlek and other deposits. Also tabled in the Parliament at that time was an agreement between Peko Mines Ltd and the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd for the joint development of the Ranger deposit with the Commonwealth. Almost 12 months later to the day, on 28 October 1975, that original agreement was elaborated upon in a further Memorandum of Understanding. It is interesting to note that it took a year for that Memorandum of Understanding to be negotiated. The reason for that is simple. It was a result of very substantial negotiations which had taken place between the parties. As I have said, that Memorandum of Understanding had been carefully negotiated, and it was the result of 12 months of hard work. 
That was the situation when this Government came to office. The Government is now being criticised by the Opposition for carrying out the terms of that Memorandum of Understanding. It involved the Australian Atomic Energy Commission in 7216 per cent of the development, Peko Mines Ltd in 13% per cent of the development and the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd in 13% per cent of the development. At that stage, the Labor Government had chosen the Australian Atomic Energy Commission as the vehicle for its negotiations, and it had used the Atomic Energy Act for this purpose. Of course, the Atomic Energy Act, as it then stood, needed some amendments to enable that Memorandum of Understanding to be carried out. That is the reason, for the amending legislation which is before the Senate tonight. It facilitates the joint participation in the mining of uranium by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the other partners in the mining venture at Ranger. 
Secondly, the Bill adopts a recommendation of the Fox report by extending the power of the Minister to exercise control not only for defence purposes but also for all proper constitutional purposes. Previously, the Act had limited the power to defence purposes only. I quote from page 181 of the report of the first Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry: 
There would seem to be little doubt that the Commonwealth has constitutional power to assume full control for all proper purposes, and we suggest that consideration should be given to its doing so. 
That is one of the amendments which is sought to be made to the Atomic Energy Act. The third and final purpose for this amending legislation is to allow for proper safeguards to be applied in accordance with our international and bilateral commitments. The Bill provides for much stricter control over the mining of uranium and generally in dealing with the acquisition, production, transportation, treatment, processing and storage of uranium. In effect, the amendments to the Act would enable the Government to ensure that Australia fulfills its obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty in the handling of uranium. I find it extremely difficult to believe that Opposition senators could be serious in their professed objections to the Bill amending the Atomic Energy Act. 
The second Bill which the Senate is debating this evening is the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill. At first glance, it may appear to be a relatively complex Bill. In effect, it is simply a Bill designed to establish mechanisms. It really does not do anything by itself. It enables other things to be done. It simply enables the creation of codes designed to protect the health and safety of the people of Australia and to protect the Australian environment from possible harmful effects of nuclear activities. I repeat that the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill is simply an enabling Bill designed to enable Australians and Australia to be protected. Let us look at the Bill. I draw attention to something that  Senator Button  said a few moments ago. He alleged that the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill goes beyond the protection of the health and safety of the people of Australia. I ask  Senator Button  this question: Why does the Bill contain these words in its first substantive clause? Clause 3 states: 
The object of this Act is to make provision, within the limits of the powers of the Parliament, for protecting the health and safety of the people of Australia, and the environment, from possible harmful effects associated with nuclear activities in Australia, and this Act and the regulations shall be construed and administered accordingly. 
As a lawyer,  Senator Button  would well know the limitation imposed on the Bill by the words shall be construed accordingly'. Quite clearly, those words will limit the interpretation of this Bill if ever it is challenged in the High Court of Australia. The Bill also talks about codes of practice. I refer to clause 8 by which the GovernorGeneral may from time to time by order in writing approve codes of practice. I refer in particular to sub-clause (3) which states: 
A code of practice may- 
specify standards to be observed . . . to be taken with respect to nuclear activities; 
That means that the Government will be able to lay down standards in relation to nuclear activities which will have to be observed right throughout Australia. Sub-clause (b) of the same clause states that the Government may recommend practices and procedures to be followed for the achievement of the standards referred to in the previous paragraph. Those recommendations are not obligatory but they will be guidelines for the States to achieve the standards which the Government will set down in its codes of practice. I am surprised to hear that the Opposition is opposing a Bill which simply sets up the framework for the protection of Australians and Australia. Quite clearly, the lengthier debate would take place on the nature of the codes, which may be dealt with in the Senate when the Government brings them forward as regulations. As someone said in another place, it seems that the Opposition has developed a psychotic blockage about uranium, so much so that it cannot see that the people of Australia want us to go ahead with uranium development, and that these Bills and the others which are in the package to come before the Senate later this evening are designed to do just that while protecting the people of Australia. 
Clearly, Australia must expect to develop. We want to provide benefits for the needy in the community and the Opposition is very keen to spend the money of the people of Australia on provision of all sorts of 'benefits', but it fails to realise that if this country is to spend money on itself there must be some surplus from our overseas trade. By 1985 Australia will have to import more than half of the crude oil it now uses. The estimated bill for that crude oil is $2 billion per annum. The export of minerals, including uranium, will help us to pay that bill. What is the world position? It is acknowledged that by the year 2000 there will be a shortfall in fossil fuels. In Britain, the Department of Energy has produced a Green Paper acknowledging that there will be a shortfall in fossil fuels and concluding that the shortfall will have to be overcome by nuclear electricity generation. That is what this legislation is all about. Last December the people of Australia judged whether Australia should mine, mill and export uranium. Their decision was overwhelmingly in favour of the mining of uranium. There is no question that it is the wish of the people of Australia that we proceed as soon as possible with this work. It seems to me that it is time the Opposition realised this and helped the Government to get on with the job. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. It is about my concern at the hazards of genetic engineering. In view of the hazards of genetic engineering will the Minister give consideration to the immediate withdrawal of all Government research funds and the banning of such research until some adequate controls and safeguards can be introduced? 
I present the following petition from 70 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
. Telephone users outside major metropolitan telephone districts, particularly those conducting businesses outside those districts, suffer an unfair burden for fees charged for calls. 
The system of charging for calls on the basis of distance between non-adjoining zones instead of for the time of the call is unreasonable. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should require Telecom Australia to meter all calls, including local calls, and charge a uniform rate on a time basis regardless of distance between calling parties. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. I refer to a recent publication of the Australian Government Publishing Service entitled  Stay Alive,  a handbook on survival which appears to me to be an excellent publication. The preface states that it has been produced in the first instance to satisfy a need for public servants engaged in field work and also that it should be especially useful to holiday makers, bush walkers and travellers. My question is: Who set the price of this publication at $5.10? What  factors  were taken into account in arriving at this price? Is it intended that the publication be sold widely or does the AGPS wish to keep as many copies as possible for posterity? Taking into account the high cost of search and rescue operations, would not a more modest price ensure a much wider purchase and use of this publication? Could I suggest a price reduction of about 80 per cent to $1.50? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
What will be the different functions of the new Telecom Complex at Deakin, in the Australian Capital Territory, when completed. 
To what appropriations within Telecom will these services be charged. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, concerns the Defence Force Ombudsman. I understand that the position has been vacant since the end of 1976 when  Mr Hay  left it to take up another appointment. I ask: Does the Government intend to fill this vacancy and, if so, when? In the meantime, have servicemen had any opportunity to lodge grievances with anyone? How have those grievances been dealt with? Finally, has the Government been subjected to representations from senior officers to leave the position vacant permanently? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
1 ) How many personnel, by rank, were serving in each of the three armed services as at 30 June 1946, 30 June 1962, and 1 January 1978. 
How many civilian personnel, by category, were in the Departments of Defence, Army, Navy and Air as at 30 June 1946, 30 June 1962 and 1 January 1978. 
How many service and civilian personnel, by rank and category, were directly employed within the Defence Group on computer programming and associated services as at 1 January 1978. 
How many service personnel and civilian employees, by Service, and rank or category, were employed in the training role as at 1 January 1 978. 
asked the Minister for Science, on notice, on 4 May 1978: 
1 ) What percentages of the 1978 approved grants of the Australian Research Grants Committee were directly related to research in the following fields: (a) the use of solar energy; and (b) coal conversion to liquid and gaseous fuels. 
Will the Government give consideration to the introduction of a system of 'priorities guidelines ' for governmentaided research projects carried out by individuals or research teams in non-government institutions in Australia, so that priority is given to projects of national importance. 
My question is directed either to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport or to the Minister for Science. I refer to an announcement that the whole of the port of Tientsin is now using solar cells to power all its lighthouses and light buoys. I ask whether any of Australia's lighthouses or light buoys are powered by solar cells. If not, would not such power be an economy that would be worthwhile effecting in Australia? If this power source is not being used for our lighthouses and light buoys, can steps be taken to evaluate the worth of using such a system for these navigational aids? 
-We have had three speakers for the Opposition in the debate on this matter this afternoon.  Senator Georges  has just said that the Opposition has put forward this deliberately designed amendment so that this tax will not be dismantled until there is an alternative tax to replace it.  Senator Georges  puts his arguments as though the Opposition is trying to have two bob each way. In fact, of course, the Opposition had all its money on an outsider called payroll tax which fell at the first hurdle in December 1977 and is still trying to recover. We heard  Senator Button,  engage in his usual personal and vitriolic attack on the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  this time for carrying out the terms of the promise made prior to the last election. We are used to  Senator Button's  vitriolic attacks on the Prime Minister. This time he extended the attack to a  Mr Lang  Hancock, apparently for discovering minerals in Western Australia and made a personal attack on all wealth, indeed on people in this country trying to make a quid and hand it on to their children.  Senator Button  put forward that proposition as an attack on all people trying to pass on some assets to their children. I suggest that his proposition is out of all step with the opinions of the people of Australia. 
Earlier in the debate  Senator Wheeldon  made a very reasonable and sensible speech which was quite up to the usual standard which I have come to expect from him. Unfortunately, it was based on wrong principles. During the course of his speech I put this to him and he acknowledged my comments.  Senator Wheeldon  's argument was based on the need to break up the great landed estates. He made it perfectly clear that this legislation originated in England with that purpose in mind. He acknowledged that in England there was inheritance going back many centuries. But, of course, Australia has no great landed estates. We have not had any since the 1 890s. What we had after the 1 890s were cut to ribbons by this particular iniquitous tax which we have put up with for 64 years since it was introduced in 1914 as a temporary measure to finance our contribution to World War I.  Senator Wheeldon  acknowledged this fact because, in the course of his speech, he mentioned that Australia already is an egalitarian society. That is true. The vast majority of people in Australia own their own homes and have a few assets which they are putting together and endeavouring to pass on to their children. They have been concerned for many years about the iniquity of this tax and the problems they have had to go through to overcome them. 
I refer to  Senator Wheeldon  's comments about the great landed estates of England and ask: What are they in Australia? In Australia we have dairy farmers with great landed estates consisting usually of perhaps 250 to 300 acres of land carrying about 100 cows with a house and improvements, probably worth between $ 120,000 to $ 140,000. Similarly, we have people who are running fat cattle or fat sheep on perhaps 600 acres of cheaper land with fewer outbuildings but with a home on it- again worth perhaps $120,000 to $140,000. Would these be the great landed estates we are talking about? Surely these people are entitled to own that sort of asset on which to run their farms. After all the farmer's most important asset is capital. Unfortunately, a farmer must have land and he must have stock or some other form of plant or livestock in order to make money. An architect can have a licence; a lawyer can be admitted to practice; a doctor can have his qualifications but to be a farmer one must own land or have access to land. Accordingly, to be a farmer, one must have what appears on the surface to be wealth. 
I acknowledge that there are farmers in this community who have assets which would greatly exceed the $ 120,000 to $ 1 50,000 which I suggest the average farmer would have. Of course, we do not know what their liabilities are. The problems  Sir William  Gunn is having in Queensland quite clearly indicate that the members of the rural community in this country are suffering terribly from the liabilities they incur in order to maintain their land and their livestock. I know of many instances of the difficulties people have had. I know of one family of three sons who worked on a dairy farm with their mother and father. They worked on it before they went to school in the morning and after they came home from school in the evenings. In due course, in the late 1950s, when death duties were at a very high rate and land values were also very high, they lost their father and within a fairly short time they lost their mother. This was at a time when there was no quick succession rebate. Consequently within a period of some 1 8 months they faced double death duties because of the death of their mother and father. Those three fellows staggered on for 15 or 16 years until 1975. They were never able to pay off the amount of money they had borrowed to pay the death duties occasioned by the loss of their parents, and the three years of inflation under the Labor Government finished them. The result is that the three men now work in various labouring jobs. Their farm was sold and in 1975-76 they eventually paid off the death duties incurred in the late 1950s. I know of another family where, when the husband was alive, he and his wife farmed their property very effectively. It was a large property and they farmed it with the aid of five assistants. Since the husband died the wife has had to cut back until she is now running the property with the aid of two men. In her seventies, she is unable to keep going and at this stage must sell the farm property in order to pay the death duties that are still outstanding by way of borrowings. 
This is an iniquitous tax that has been imposed for many years. I could recite dozens of examples of the problems that people have had to face because of this terrible tax. It does not affect only people on the land, but I would like to refer to one statistic about people on the land. Only about 6 per cent of the Australian community are farmers but they pay about 36 per cent of the revenue collected in death duties. Farmers must have capital to carry on. Many people in Victoria and throughout Australia have been fighting for years to have this tax abolished. I would like to pay a special tribute to two of my colleagues in Victoria,  Mr Reynolds  Rippon and  Mr Phillip  Russell, who have spoken long and often in opposition to the tax. It was a great day for them when the Prime Minister announced that the tax would be abolished. 
The Labor Party has put forward as an amendment-  Senator Georges  referred to this matter- that an alternative form of tax on capital be introduced. I would like to know what sort of tax on capital the Labor Party is talking about. Labor senators use vague words, but I would rather that the people of Australia understood what they were talking about. On their proposition, a person with assets of say, $100,000, which is not much more than a house, a couple of cars, furniture and perhaps a few quid in the bank, if he pays tax at an annual rate of one per cent, would be required to pay $1,000 a year. A farmer with assets worth $ 1 50,000, if he pays tax at one per cent, would be required to pay $ 1,500 a year. There would be no question of whether or not he has the income with which to pay the tax. As a farmer he may have incurred losses in that year. For all we know, he may have been down the drain by many thousands of dollars as a result of drought or some other seasonal problems. But the Labor Party would have him trying to meet a payment of tax on his capital. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
The Bills which are the subject of this cognate debate abolish estate duty and gift duty in respect of property passing to and gifts made to spouse, children and grandchildren. Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was giving some examples of the iniquities of the tax, which was introduced as a temporary measure 64 years ago to assist our country in its conduct of the First World War. I was drawing attention to the particular iniquities for farmers and I was pointing out that to be a farmer a fundamental requirement is to have capital. A farmer simply must have capital in order to carry on his job. He must have land, stock and plant. That is why this tax has created so much difficulty for peole on the land. People on the land make up only about 6 per cent of the taxable population of Australia but they have been contributing about 36 per cent of the death duty revenues collected by the Federal and State governments. 
In England the purpose of estate duty and gift duty legislation had been to break up the great landed estates, but I pointed out to the Senate that there are no great landed estates in Australia; they are mostly small properties. Those of us who have any knowledge of what is happening in rural areas of Australia will appreciate that all the efforts of governments are being directed to an amalgamation of properties to make them larger so that they can be run more economically and so that greater profits can be earned, so as to make them reasonable concerns instead of being, as they have been for many years, properties from which it has been difficult to make more than a bare, meagre living. 
Before the suspension I had just turned to the Opposition's proposal which is set out in an amendment. The Opposition proposes that these Bills be withdrawn until such time as an alternative form of tax on capital is introduced. What Opposition members have made clear in this debate is that they want some form of tax on wealth, a tax on capital, and they have given two alternatives- firstly, a straight out capital tax and, secondly, a capital gains tax. Let us take a wealth tax. Let us presume that the rate they fix would be one per cent per annum on the net assets of the taxpayer, and I suggest that so far as the Opposition is concerned one per cent would be the minimum. That would mean that a person would have to live for 100 years before he had paid out the full value of his assets. So I suggest that one per cent would be a minimum. Let us take the ordinary fellow with his house, his car, his television set, a few other assets and a few quid in the bank with a total of, for example, $50,000. At one per cent he would be required to pay $500 a year wealth tax or capital tax and that would be for every year. Every year he would have to make some declaration as to the value of his assets, and no doubt that would be subject to all sons of requirements. On that basis he would then have to pay out the amount of this tax- at whatever rate it was fixed- and that would not be relevant to his income. 
I point out how difficult this would be for a farmer. Let us take a farmer with a net worth of, say, $100,000. He might very well suffer a loss in that year of $3,000 or some such figure. It would not matter so far as a wealth tax is concerned; he would still be required to pay $ 1 ,000 tax on the basis of one per cent of his net worth. Surely Opposition members do not put this proposition forward as a valid, genuine alternative to the Government's proposals. They have put it forward for philosophical reasons and they have put it forward, in general terms, as an alternative form of tax on capital, without specifying it. I am spelling it out to the people of Australia so that they will know what the Opposition is talking about. 

 Senator Wheeldon, who spoke first for the Opposition in this debate, in a very reasonable and sound speech- except for his failure to follow a couple of principles, in that in my view he based his argument on the situation in England instead of on the situation in Australia- acknowledged that he would not be happy with such a tax. But that was not the view of  Senator Ryan,  who has now joined us in the Senate. On 13 May 1978  Senator Ryan  had something to say about this tax. She was so proud of it that she issued a media release about the subject. The opening paragraph of that media release stated: 

 Senator Susan Ryan, Labor  Senator for  the ACT, has spoken out against the new Government legislation to abolish federal estate duty between married people. 
So she is saying that when dad dies he should not leave his estate to his wife free of duty, but that somehow or other she has to find out of his assets some death duty or some tax. She went on quite generously and said that she had no objection to the abolition of estate duty between spouses up to a limit around $100,000. Somewhere or other she has plucked out of the air $ 100,000 and said: Well, it is all right if they are only worth $100,000'. 
Is that based on her anticipation, Senator? In any event at least she is being generous to that extent, but what about the children in the family? It is quite clear that her view must be that if anything is left to children or grandchildren it must be taxed as hard as it possibly can be because an Australian Labor Party government will not allow anyone to leave anything to anyone in a younger generation. She made that quite clear when later on in this same media release of 13 May she said, and I quote from her proud boast: 
Wealth should be taxed, capital should be taxed. 
That is quite contrary to the wishes and ambitions of the people of Australia. That is exactly what people are trying to do at the present moment. They are trying to establish some sort of capital, by putting a few quid away, that they can leave to their children when they die. I think that is a very proper and reasonable aim. Let us look at the alternative proposal. 
Thank you,  Senator. I  was not aware of what the Russians do but I am grateful that you were able to put that in  Hansard  for me. As I said,  Senator Wheeldon  has acknowledged that that would be a most unreasonable tax. In all the circumstances, he suggested that it might be better if we look at a capital gains tax. There is already in existence a capital gains tax. There is the iniquitous section 26 (a) of the Act but that is a capital gains tax which is based on the proposition that a person buys a property with a view to subsequently reselling it at a profit, and that profit is taxable. But what the Opposition is putting forward here is that regardless of whether or not a person buys his property and intends to resell it later at a profit, if he subsequently makes a profit on the sale of any property then he is taxed on it. That would apply in all circumstances because there is no limitation of $100,000 or any such proposition. 
Let us look at the reasonable, ordinary bloke in the street who has a house that he bought prior to our last Labor Government for about $ 12,000 or some such figure. By now the house would probably be worth about $30,000. If he were to sell that house a Labor Government would tax him on his $18,000 so-called profit. But where is the profit? The fellow has the same house he owned prior to a Labor government coming into office and inflating values beyond all reason. Why should some ordinary bloke in the street who happens to sell his house have to pay tax on this so-called capital gain when, if he goes to buy an alternative house, the value of the house he tries to buy will also be inflated? There is no profit in this situation, as far as I can see. 
What the Australian Labor Party is proposing is a tax on inflation. The fellow who owns his house has no control over the inflationary consequences of government policy. The Labour Party in government would inflate the economy and in due course would impose taxes on the inflated values and the so-called paper profits. The result of that would be that the Labor Party would achieve its socialist objective of ruining the economy of this country, destroying the assets of people, making sure that the home owners in Australia are not able to continue to be the majority of people in Australia because that is what the Labor Party does not want- it does not want the people of Australia to be able to own their own homes and own their own assets. It wants some other sort of socialistic regime. This is the way it would go about doing things. 
We already have the most egalitarian society in the world. Let there be no doubt about that. One of the consequential advantages of this legislation may be the immigration to Australia of people of wealth and all the benefits which their wealth would bring to this country if it were invested here. I do not care whether people come from Japan with $22m or from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics with $22m. If they bring $22m into this country I will welcome them. I believe that this legislation will be an incentive to the thrifty. It will give the ordinary Joe in the street the opportunity to go out and to try to save a quid, knowing he will be able to keep it for his life and leave it to his wife without worrying about some burdensome duty which some government is inflicting upon him. In due course he will be able to leave it to his grandchildren or to his children, as he sees fit, without having to pay some life insurance company some enormous premium on some policy in order to meet the death duties which might be imposed. 
Finally, I must congratulate the Government on adopting the proposal to extend the exemption to grandchildren. I am well aware of many inequities which exist in the country, in particular with rural people when a grandchild is working on the land and the grandfather wants to leave some parcel of land to that grandchild. Under earlier proposals, under which the duty was to be abolished just on the passing of property between spouses and to the first generation, a grandchild in that situation would have had to have waited until the death of his father. Now under this legislation the Government has gone right ahead with its proposal and so abolished the duty on assets that people now will be able to leave their assets directly to their grandchildren. I congratulate the Government on this legislation. I congratulate it on its extension of this exemption. I most strongly urge the Senate to support the Bills. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry is about the scheme of cash grants to beef producers introduced last year whereby $10 a head was paid to beef producers for certain disease processes and to help with cash flow. Are these grants to beef producers to be treated as income which will be taxable, if they have received a taxable income? Also, can the Minister tell the Senate how much this scheme has cost the Commonwealth so far? 
-This Bill is described by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in his second reading speech as introducing measures to counter tax avoidance. I will be using the words 'avoidance' and 'evasion' which I think perhaps I should make clear. Last Wednesday in this Senate  Senator Walsh  acknowledged a distinction between 'avoidance' and 'evasion' but he said that the distinction was technical and was not important. I beg to differ with him. I should like to explain the difference in terms that people will be able to understand. Any change in circumstances may affect a taxpayer's position and could be described as tax avoidance. For example, when a person marries, if his spouse does not work and becomes dependent on him he gets a deduction for her. It could be said that his marriage was entered into specifically for the purpose of avoiding tax. But, of course, that would be nonsense. It could be said, similarly, that if they had a child and could get a taxation deduction for the child that they could be said to be avoiding tax. 
On the other hand, an evasion of tax is a simple matter mostly of failing to disclose income. A person who fails to disclose income, of course, does not pay tax on that income and that is an evasion as opposed to ah avoidance of tax. There is a very fine line in this jurisdiction and it comes down to the question of reasonableness. In his second reading speech, the Treasurer said: 
It has long been recognised that it is reasonable for taxpayers to so organise their affairs as to minimise liability for taxation. However, the Government believes that some techniques of tax avoidance - 
Not tax evasion, but tax avoidance-  are so blatant, contrived and artificial as to go beyond the bounds of reasonableness. 
He goes on to say: 
There may be no absolute community standards by which particular forms of tax avoidance may be judged. 
So when a couple marry, clearly that is not contrary to the community standard of reasonableness. When a couple in business go into partnership that could be said to be tax avoidance, but, again, it does not transgress those community standards. What happens when a family company is formed or a family trust is created? One would have to acknowledge that the line is starting to get thin. 
I should now like to turn to the Curran-type cases which is one of the major matters this legislation is attacking. In the Curran-type cases, it is simply a question of the taxpayer buying taxation losses and, in many cases, not just for the current year but also for future years. So, if a taxpayer was on a very high income of, say, $200,000 it would be possible for him to buy taxation losses worth $200,000 and pay no tax in that year on his income. Some taxpayers were not satisfied with paying no tax this year. They were prepared to buy tax losses so that they would not have to pay income tax on their estimated incomes in the future. I put it to the Senate that the Government has recognised that this practice is not just across that fine line to which I referred, but is so far across the line as to be, in my view, a fraud on the revenue. 
Many representations have been made to members of the Senate and the House of Representatives about whether this legislation is retrospective.  Senator Walters  referred to the warnings that were given to people who entered into these schemes going back as far as 1 December 1 974. In my view it is difficult for any taxpayers' adviser to say that he was not well warned of the possibility of this legislation being made retrospective to that date. However, in any event, one is tempted to ask whether it is retrospective when in fact it deals with income earned by a taxpayer to the year ending 30 June 1978, which has not yet arrived. A taxpayer is now well warned of what will happen in relation to his Curran-type tax losses and has an opportunity to reorganise his affairs before 30 June this year if he wishes. 
I would also like to refer to the Government 's dilemma. One of its problems was whether it should describe this legislation as retrospective. If it had tried not to describe this legislation as retrospective it would have been soundly criticised and condemned by all concerned and outsiders. So the Government faced this situation and acknowledged that in some respects the legislation could be said to be retrospective. 
With respect, the Treasurer acknowledged publicly that the legislation was retrospective. I believe that the Government was quite right in taking this action. If there was an element of retrospectivity, the Government acknowledged that retrospectivity and faced the criticisms which people were prepared to make. 
I would like to look at the Bill generally which, as I have said, purports to introduce measures to counter tax avoidance, not evasion. The schemes are many. This is a large industry and schemes will no doubt flow from the minds of those who are in this business. I again ask the Government and its advisers to look carefully at an alternative. I have suggested to them previously that they ought to look at the possibility of allowing families to be taxed on the basis of a family partnership. This was actually a recommendation of the Taxation Review Committee- known as the Asprey Committee- back in January 1975. The Committee in paragraph 10.33 on page 139 of its report recommended: 
. that the Government prepare a detailed scheme for an elective family unit system for public examination. 
The recommendation was that the scheme be prepared for public examination. Unfortunately, in a reservation  Mr Justice  Asprey subsequently opposed his own Committee's recommendation on two grounds. Firstly, he argued that if the result was an aggregation of the family income, that would not be acceptable because the tax would be too high. Secondly, he argued that if the income was averaged, that would bring about a substantial loss to the revenue. In his reservation  Mr Justice  Asprey acknowledged that everything would hinge upon the rates scale. I say to the Government and its advisers that the Government ought to be looking at some such family unit scheme. In my view, if the Government allowed families to average their income the nonsense about the creation of family partnerships, family trusts and family companies, which all are designed to spread income among husband, wife and children, would no longer continue. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the sitting was suspended I had asked that the Government and its advisers consider the possibility of providing for a scheme along the lines suggested by the Asprey committee- an elective family unit system of taxation. There are many ideas that one can put forward about such a system, but the one that appeals to me is that of a family partnership. As a Liberal thinking about liberal philosophies, I believe that one of the things we should encourage is marriage and family development. Yet, from a taxation point of view, we seem to discourage marriage: A couple are financially better off living together unmarried than married. 
If we were to introduce some kind of family partnership taxation system, one could imagine a situation where a couple, when they married, would have the total of their incomes averaged and would pay the average income tax rate on that basis. This would mean that if a wife wished to stay at home and mind her children, the family would not be financially disadvantaged by her so doing. At present there is undoubtedly a financial disadvantage in a wife's giving up her job. 
I would go further: I believe that when a couple have their first child the family should be taxed differently again. Because there would be three people in the family, its gross income should be divided by three and each should be required to pay tax on one-third of that income. That suggestion may be a little radical for the 
Government to adopt, but certainly it should give serious consideration to adopting the first suggestion. The result of its adoption would be to minimise greatly the prevalence of taxation schemes, all of which are directed to apportioning the gross income of the family among as many members of it as is possible. In that way, under the present scheme, taxation is minimised. 
My proposal was dismissed by  Mr Asprey  in a reservation to chapter 10 of the Taxation Review Committee's report, on the basis that it would produce a substantial loss of revenue; but, in fact, he had himself said in that same reservation, in the previous paragraph: 'Everything hinges upon the rate scale'. That would be the answer: It would simply be a matter of devising a rate scale which would be appropriate to the change in circumstances as a result of bringing in the family unit, instead of the individual, as the taxation unit. 
I turn now to what I believe to be the most important factor in regard to this legislation, and say that I believe our taxation advisers in this country have let us down. The greed demonstrated by so many taxpayers has meant that their taxation advisers have been concerned, in their representations, to the Government, only with Curran schemes, retrospectivity and attempts to have this legislation delayed. It would seem that they have not really applied their minds to the other provisions of the Bill, which comprises 38 pages and some 24 clauses. 
This is where I believe the greatest criticism can arise: The Bill is full of provisions which permit discretion on the part of the Commissioner. I should have thought that taxation advisers who were doing their duty in the community would have been screaming to the legislators about the number of times that some decision is left to the discretion of the Commissioner of Taxation. This is a most iniquitous practice. A person is entitled to know the taxation consequences of his action. For example, if one wanted to buy a new truck for one's business, one must know the financial consequences of paying cash, of buying it on hire purchase, or of leasing it. That is not an unreasonable proposition. In order to calculate those financial consequences, one must know not only the interest that one will pay under each approach, but also what taxation problems will arise. Then one can work out whether one's business can afford to pay cash, whether one should buy under hire purchase, or whether one should enter into a leasing agreement. I am not suggesting that that is covered in this Bill, but it is an example of what I am talking about: A taxpayer must know definitely what the taxation laws are, so that he can organise his affairs in accordance with the law. 
Under the Bill there are to be an enormous number of cases in which the Commissioner is to have a discretion. My colleague  Senator Messner,  has spent a lot of time studying the Bill and will be speaking to it later. He has discovered over 50 examples in which discretion is to be allowed the Commissioner of Taxation. I will be very interested to hear what he has to say on that point. I think it is an absolute disgrace that the Bill has been drafted along those lines; it is a disgrace also that the matter has not been brought before the public; that discussion of it has not reached the enormity that has been reached by the discussion about retrospectivity. The legislation presents major problems. For example, if a company were considering raising finance from the public it might say to itself: Will we issue some sort of debenture or will we issue shares?' In its prospectus, the company, if it were to issue shares, would be required to say when holders of those shares would participate in any dividends, but proposed new sub-section (3) of section 105A, as set out in clause 13, provides: 
A dividend paid by a company during the prescribed period . . . shall not be taken into account ... if the dividend was paid in pursuance of an agreement . . . 
Does that not mean that if the prospectus says that the particular shares which the company intends to issue will entitle holders to participate in a dividend, those dividends shall not be taken into account for purposes of a sufficient dividend? It is clearly an agreement entered into between the company and the subscribing shareholders. I do not know where that will lead us and I hope that in due course the Minister will explain it to us. Clause 3 sets out a very large number of provisions about the costs of shares which are issued in satisfaction of a dividend. We end up with a statement that they shall be assessed in such proportions as the Commissioner considers appropriate. Surely in the three-quarters of a page of legislation which precedes that statement the Government could have clarified the situation properly rather than finally allowing the Commissioner to have a discretion. 
Clause 6 proposes many new paragraphs. Proposed new paragraphs (a) to (e) are almost unintelligible. Proposed new paragraph (f) states that the Commissioner may take into account any other matters that he considers relevant. How does a taxpayer work out what will be the consequences of his action? He does not know what the Commissioner will take into account and he will not be able to find out from the legislation. He will not be able to get his legal or accountancy advisers to explain it to him and he will not be able to go to the Commissioner and say: 'If I do this, this and this, how will you assess it?' Quite frankly, the Commissioner will say: 'I am not prepared to advise you on that matter. I can advise only on the facts when I know them '. So the taxpayer must go ahead and set up his arrangements and hope that ultimately the Commissioner will not assess his income unreasonably. I think that this terrible Act, the Income Tax Assessment Act, could be replaced by a very simple Act. If we are to allow such wide discretion on the pan of the Commissioner why do we not replace the whole Act with the simple provision that the Commissioner shall have an absolute discretion and the taxpayer shall pay whatever tax the Commissioner of Taxation assesses. I believe that we have been let down badly by taxation advisers, who have failed to bring to the attention of the public and members of Parliament these outrageous provisions. I suggest that each of these clauses should be tightened up so that the provisions whereby the Commissioner has a discretion can be removed entirely. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to a report that the Corporation of Insurance Brokers of Australia has compiled a list of about 50 small insurance companies which it considers are at risk, and also to the reported statement of the Corporation's South Australian  Chairman,  a  Mr Bruce  Brooks, that some of those companies are in trouble now and that many have got to go either this year or next year. I ask the Minister: In view of the fact that small policy holders are always the people worst hit by any collapse, will the Treasurer direct the Insurance Commissioner to obtain a copy of the list of companies considered to be at risk by the Corporation of Insurance Brokers and satisfy himself that they at present fulfil all the provisions of the Insurance Act? If they do satisfy those provisions, will the Treasurer confer with the Corporation about the possible need to amend the Act or to require some form of indemnity reinsurance by some of those companies? 
-The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has not made any reference to the point that I made in relation to clauses 1 1 and 13 of the Bill which I specifically raised with him. 
I think it is a great pity that again the Senate has fallen, as the public has fallen, for the three card trick and is involved in a debate during the Committee stage in particular on retrospectivity instead of on the detailed provisions of this Bill. In my view the detailed provisions of this Bill should have been examined very closely and finely. There are many clauses of the Bill which I would like to have gone through. In particular I refer to the proposal that the Commissioner should be given discretions. This is constantly referred to through the Bill. In fact it is referred to more than fifty times. Really it is a terrible pity that this debate is being contracted, and that such of the debate that is taking place relates mostly to retrospectivity. 
I intend to do so. I draw the attention of the Minister to clauses 1 1 and 13. In particular I refer to clause 1 1 ( 1 ) (f) which seeks to insert new sub-section (6a). It requires a person who wants to claim a gift of property as an allowable deduction to submit to the Commissioner of Taxation not less than two valuations in writing of the value of the property. Not satisfied with that, those valuations must be from an approved valuer. So the Commonwealth is to set up the bureaucratic nonsense of establishing a register of approved valuers and requiring someone who perhaps wants to make some generous gift to get two of those people to value the property. As if that is not hard enough on that person who has to go to all that trouble to make this gift, for some reason or other the draftsman of the Bill is not satisfied and is frightened that the approved valuers might in some way or other be got at. In proposed new subsection (6E) (a) (ii) the Commissioner is again given a further discretion in relation to the value of that gift. So the person has to produce two approved valuations and still he does not know how much he will be allowed as a deduction. If we are going to that stage, why do we not go the whole hog? Why do we not say that the only amount that will be allowed as a deduction will be an amount that the Commissioner will determine? How he determines that amount is up to him. We could then give the Commissioner power to advise the donors how much he will allow before they make their gift. That would be a much simpler process altogether. I draw the Minister's specific attention to that clause. In my view the whole clause needs to be rethought and a substitute clause introduced. 
I now turn as quickly as I can to clause 13(1) which seeks to substitute new sub-section (3), which states: 
A dividend paid by a company during the prescribed period . . . shall not be taken into account ... if the dividend was paid in pursuance of an agreement . . . 
This is in relation to the assessment of a sufficient distribution by a company. I say that every time a public company issues a prospectus inviting the public to subscribe and every time a shareholder accepts the invitation to subscribe, the company enters into an agreement to pay that subscriber a dividend in accordance with the provisions of the prospectus. The prospectus will set out whether the new shares will participate in the current dividend or in a dividend from 30 June next year. The prospectus is required to set out those things. Here is an agreement between a shareholder and a public company, and yet this specific clause is so badly drawn that it says that in those cases that dividend will not be taken into account as a sufficient dividend by a company in those circumstances. 

 Senator Sir REGINALD WRIGHT (Tasmania) ( 12.48)- I am indebted to  Senator Lewis  for drawing attention to the question of discretions, as  Senator Messner  did. I just remind the Senate that in 1964 we had a terrific crisis here when the Government was kept up all night and had to divide a Bill because of my opposition to discretions which have been seeping into the taxation laws since then like sewage. Nothing that depends upon the principle of retrospectivity so undermines the rule of law as to give the Commissioner of Taxation a discretion on what he thinks is honest and what he thinks is not. When we couple with that the secrecy in which he works in relation to individuals, it is indeed a reproach but it is also an opportunity for unparalleled corruption. It is a tribute to our Australian Public Service that the integrity of the Taxation Office has not been questioned. When one considers that it is an office constituted of so many officers who, in a subordinate capacity, have to review these matters that it is completely impossible for a Commissioner or for the upper echelon to take into account all of the complicated transactions involved in a particular assessment, one realises that the opportunities for corruption are simply frightening. That all comes from secrecy and the exercise of discretion. I say that only to add whatever influence I can in urging an intense investigation of this matter and the substitution, for what now prevails, of proper rules. 
The Commissioner, the Government and the draftsmen say that one cannot devise rules. That is how all of this evil began in 1964. The Cabinet of the day had spent2ยฝ years in seeking to devise rules but came up with failure, as expressed in the need to give discretion; that is how they excused it. The Commissioner went on to issue public bulletins in which he devised formulae by which he would be guided in the exercise of his discretion. They were perfectly simple and could be understood. If Parliament had had the wit to devise them they would have been quite proper for insertion in the statute. Everybody would then have known what the law required, as distinct from giving the Commissioner the right to determine whether or not, in a certain case, a particular rule applied. 
The second matter I mention in deference to what  Senator Rae  said concerning my interpretation, in regard to Curran transactions, of the principal of retrospectivity. I think that there has been a misunderstanding and, if I may say so with respect, that  Senator Wheeldon  falls into the same error when he discusses retrospectivity with regard to a year of assessment. If, for instance, for the first time, one were to bring into a man's assessable tax gambling debts, where he was not carrying on a business for gambling but was indulging in a little punting on horse racing, or was investing in Tattslotto, it would, of course, be retrospective- if made to apply to a win enjoyed before the Act was enacted. This is not an instance of that. This is a case where a loss is invoked to reduce income, artifically created by the declaration of a dividend out of a capital reserve. It is simply a conversion of one's right to an interest in that capital reserve; one calls it a dividend and then says that the amount thereof represents money in one's pocket which one can consider to be a deduction against the sale of shares, and so reduce one's income. 
My proposition with regard to that is that it is an appalling pity that the Commissioner did not apply to it section 260. If he found that judicial interpretation had prevented a successful application of the section, then, as I have advocated- I am most grateful for  Senator Messner  's adoption of the idea- section 260 should be amended so that specific matters are described. I hope one day we will have the capacity to use the English language to describe in a paragraph of about six lines a particular transaction, instead of the roaming, meandering draftsmanship which takes 13 pages to describe one proposition. Section 260, in principle, applies to Curran transactions. Everybody agrees that there is a distinction between Curran himself, a stockbroker, and other people who artificially create pseudo share-selling transactions. There the principle, the true interpretation of section 260, applies. I go further and say that even in the case of Curran himself it is a complete misunderstanding of what is meant by losses to claim that if one has the right to create a dividend in a company, and goes through the process of doing so, just because it is then in the form of an offset account it is a loss when applied for the purposes of the share. That to me is not acceptable. That is the opinion of  Mr Justice  Stephen who dissented in Curran 's case. Some of the things of value in this life have come from people who sometimes dissented. As I have said with regard to the Fifth 
Amendment of the American Constitution, it comes from those who are considered by their contemporaries to be the ultimate in cantankerousness. 
I thoroughly reject the idea that the Minister should have the right to say in future, after a decision: 'I am going to bring in legislation on that, to condemn it'. Unless he brings it in within three months, or a reasonable time- not with the swiftness with which the parliamentary pensions amendment was introduced, within 24 hours- it is for the Parliament to decide whether the Minister's idea is to be accepted. If he is given the right of decision and waits for 1 1 months to act, the whole community remains in suspense as to whether Parliament will adopt that decision or not. Therefore, Parliament has to insist on action from these dilatory, pettyfogging Ministers who in this case have failed to act since 1 974. 1 refer principally to the Labor Government and its successor. The Labor Government was chiefly involved. Parliament will not, I hope, accept truly retrospective legislation in cases where there has been a long delay such as this. 
I do not consider this to be truly retrospective legislation; nor do I accept the assertions of the Minister that the amount of revenue at loss here is colossal. The only information that the Minister has is based upon an assessment of the applications for remission of provisional tax that have come in in the last four or five months. That would not be sufficient to indicate a greater loss than say $40m or $50m- certainly nothing like $500m or $2,000m. I do not accept that, and that is the reason why I shall vote against  Senator Rae's  amendment and for the Bill. I shall vote for the Bill, agreeing reluctantly to the insertion of the date 17 August. If it were a declaratory Bill, declaring the law, it should have no date; it should apply along with the Act. That is truly what it is. However, it would be only timewasting to try to achieve that. By inserting that date the Government is really forfeiting revenue in respect of all of those transactions that accrued before August. A declaratory measure should apply to all bogus transactions, of whatever date, to which the legislation on its true interpretation should have been applicable. 
Sitting suspended from 12.59 to 2.15 p.m. 
I direct a question to you.  Mr President.  Are you aware that at the Royal Commission of inquiry into matters relating to the electoral redistribution in Queensland, to which  Senator Withers  has just referred, questions were asked of a witness relating to a newspaper article which quoted things said in the House of Representatives? Are you further aware that in subsequent evidence questions were asked relating to a document tabled in the Parliament and reproduced in  Hansard)  I refer you to page 1790 of the transcript of evidence. Will you,  Mr President,  consider during the recess whether these matters constitute a breach of parliamentary privilege? Secondly, will you draw the reference to matters said in the House of Representatives to the attention of  Mr Speaker  for his similar consideration? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
What is the position regarding the first draft of the proposed 'Model Food Act' referred by the Department of Health to other appropriate Commonwealth departments and the States for comment at the end of 1 976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
1 ) How many officers with the Department of Foreign Affairs have been trained to interpreter standards in Asian languages during the past two years; to what level were they trained and in which languages. 
How many Departmental Officers, and in what overseas posts in Asia, are qualified interpreters. 
What steps, if any, are being taken to increase the number of qualified interpreters in the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 23 May 1 978: 
1 ) How many copies of the Survival Manual titled  Stay Alive  by Maurice Dunlevy and published by the Australian Government Publishing Service, have been printed. 
What payments were made, and to whom, for contributions to the content of this publication. 
Were any of the contributors Government employees. 
What was the cost of printing. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) How many Defence Force personnel, and at what rank have been trained to interpreter standards in what Asian languages during the past two years. 
) How many Defence Force attaches and in what overseas posts in Asia are qualified interpreters. 
What steps, if any, are being taken to increase the number of qualified interpreters in the Defence Force. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
What percentages of the 1978 National Health and Medical Research Council Grant recommendations were related to: (a) heart diseases; (b) cancer; (c) diseases endemic to the Aboriginal people. 
Will the Government give consideration to the introduction of a system of 'priority guidelines' for governmentaided research projects carried out by individuals or research teams in Australia, so that priority is given to projects of national importance. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 4 May 1978: 
1 ) What are the details of orders which are the subject of the $ 164m offset arrangements detailed in the 1977 Defence Report. 
Which Australian Companies received such orders. 
3 ) What orders were placed during 1 976-77. 
How many persons were employed full or part-time during 1976-77 in making offset arrangements. 
What were the total costs if any in salaries and in overseas travel for such persons. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
1 ) How many teachers who have graduated during the past two years were qualified on graduation to teach Asian languages, and what languages are they. 
How many Government schools teach Asian languages, and what languages are they. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, is about the cut in sales tax on motor cars and station wagons from 27$ per cent to 1 5 per cent, estimated by the Treasurer to cost $155m in revenue this year and $196m in a full year. I ask: What is the purpose of this cut in sales tax? What will be its result? Will not the result simply be to reduce the total current market value of the stocks of used vehicles in Australia? Would it not have been better to use the lost revenue in some other way, for example, by imposing less tax or creating some export incentive? 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
1 ) Did the Division of Fisheries and Oceanography in the Commonwealth Industrial Research Organization receive a Commonwealth grant for a study of the Protective Effect of Selenium against the Toxic Action of Mercury Compounds in Fish. 
Is it the practice to permit interruption of research projects so funded to enable personnel engaged on them to take sabbatical leave; if not, what were the particular circumstances which permitted the Project Supervisor of this study to take sabbatical leave during the last half of 1977. 
What will be the additional costs to the project resulting from delays occasioned by the Project Supervisor's leave and the rise in the Consumer Price Index during the extra time necessary to complete the project. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
Will the telecommunications complex in Deakin, when completed, service the Deep Tracking Stations at Orroral Valley, Honeysuckle Creek, Tidbinbilla or any other tracking station in Australia; if so, what services will be provided. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 June 1 978: 
Has spare training capacity in Commonwealth and State government departments, under the scheme introduced in 1975 to assist industry and commerce in the training of apprentices, been fully taken up for 1 978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
Are sufficient apprentices being trained to meet the foreseeable requirements of the Defence Forces in view of the increased complexity of weapons systems (Question No. 236, Senate  Hansard,  25 May 1 978, page 1913). 
Have the Defence Force Apprentice Training Establishments the capability to train additional apprentices. 
How many applications were received for apprenticeships in each of the three Services at their last intakes, and how many applicants were selected. 
I present the following pet  ition from 82 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition ofthe undersigned respectfully showeth: 
Telephone users outside major metropolitan telephone districts, particularly those conducting businesses outside those districts, suffer an unfair burden for fees charged for calls. 
The system of charging for calls on the basis of distance between non-adjoining zones instead of for the time of the call is unreasonable. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should require Telecom Australia to meter all calls, including local calls, and charge a uniform rate on a time basis regardless of distance between calling parties. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 22 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the  Senator in  Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Unfortunately he has had many today. It is about the serviceability of Australia's Leopard tanks. Is it a fact that the wrong grease has been used on the turrets of these tanks and that this has affected the rate of firing of our entire tank force? If so, in what way has the rate of firing been affected? Who was responsible for the use of the wrong grease? What action is being taken against the people responsible? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and is about the demon drink. There are Press reports that customs officers are investigating the sale of poisoned whisky and have seized some whisky, rum and vodka. I understand that some of the seized bottles contain sufficient methyl alcohol to cause blindness and damage to nerves. The Minister will be aware that the Australian Government 
Analytical Laboratories have responsibility for protecting the Australian consumer through examination of imported goods referred to it by client departments. Can the Laboratories meet the demands of client departments, and are random checks carried out to protect the consumers? 
-Firstly, let me join with other honourable senators in congratulating  Senator Mason  on his maiden speech. He certainly put forward some interesting ideas. It is a great pleasure to hear others making their maiden speeches so that I am no longer the new boy in the Senate. The Senate has heard this afternoon and this evening some very interesting discourses on unemployment, firstly by  Senator Ryan  and now by  Senator McAuliffe,  to the extent that at one stage I had to check to see which Bill we were discussing. I thought we might have got around to debating the Budget Papers. The debate on the Budget Papers is when the matter of unemployment should be raised. Unfortunately the discourse on unemployment is not relevant to this Bill. Admittedly, the Bill is entitled the Commonwealth Employment Service Bill, but it does not deal with the question of unemployment as such. The purpose of the Bill is to provide for the establishment of the Commonwealth Employment Service as a unified and identifiable organisation; to detail the functions of that Service; to allow for the appointment of a National Director of the CES and to make provision for the establishment of an advisory committee structure at the national, regional and local levels. 
The solution to unemployment lies in the economic area. It does not lie in a controlled state whereby some manpower policy is imposed by a government on the people of the nation, such as the Regional Employment Development scheme which was a disaster. The suggestion from  Senator McAuliffe  seemed to be that in some way or other this manpower policy ought to di-  red people as to which jobs they should fill. That is not the solution to the unemployment problem. The solution will, of course, lie with the economic package in the Government's policy as disclosed in the current Budget, and I am sure that it will prove to be successful. In addition, the Opposition's ideas about unemployment unfortunately are not accurate. Both  Senator Ryan  and  Senator McAuliffe  failed to acknowledge the original cause of unemployment. It is acknowledged far and wide around the country that the people of Australia are still paying the penalty for the disastrous actions of the Labor years from 1973 to 1975. The other matter about which they could perhaps have had something to say is that the continued reason for unemployment lies in the real wage-cost overhang, the fact that real wages are continuing to expand in excess of increases in production. They are the matters which will be subject to the Budget debate. As I said, the Bills before the Senate at the present time do not deal with unemployment but with the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
I acknowledge that when I saw these Bills I had some philosophical doubts because, of course, it could be suggested that this is a socialised industry. No doubt that is what the Opposition would love to have. These doubts of mine have been resolved by a paper issued by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  I believe that I should read into  Hansard  some matters from that paper which I believe to be of importance. The first is the suggestion that it is insidious nationalisation of a private sector group. The Minister has pointed out that the Professional Employment Office was established under the name of the Higher Appointments Office back in 1945 and that what is happening to it is a necessary improvement of a public service which the Norgard inquiry reported as being essential. I should add that the National Labour Consultative Council has strongly supported the Government's proposal for modernisation and that the  Chairman  of the Standing Committee of that Council is  Mr George  Polites, Director of the Confederation of Australian Industry. It is important. 1 think, that all areas of industry in Australia- by all areas I mean employers organisations, trade unions and people seeking employment- approve of these proposals. 
The next criticism is that the cost is not justified. The Minister has stated- I think it is realistic- that the 1977-78 cost of the Commonwealth Employment Service was approximately $47m. He asks: Is it suggested that such expenditure is justified as long as the Service is inefficient, but that a slightly higher expenditure to ensure an efficient Service is not justified? I think that is a fair and reasonable question. Suggestions have been made about advertisements, which I think have been answered properly by  Senator Walters,  so I will not refer to them. A suggestion has been made that public sector employment will be increased at the expense of jobs in the private sector. The Minister has pointed out that for some time the levels of staff in the Commonwealth Employment Service have been determined by a formula which relates the numbers required to the work load. I think that is a fair and reasonable answer to that criticism. 
Another criticism that is being levelled by the private employer firms involved in this sort of activity in competition with the CES is that no plausible reason can be shown why the employment situation can be improved by the action that the Government intends to take with the Commonwealth Employment Service. Of course this is the criticism which  Senator McAuliffe  also was making. But it is pointed out that an improvement in the overall employment position will be achieved as a consequence of the economic situation and not as a consequence of some direction from some manpower policy. Finally, a suggestion has been made that the Commonwealth Employment Service should charge fees comparable to those charged by agencies in the private sector. I do not know that the Minister's answer in this regard is as good as his other answers, but it is pointed out that, in 1 976 only 4,700 placements out of a total of 465,000 placements were made by professional employment agencies. It  is difficult to  imagine that with this level of business the private employment agencies are seriously concerned about competition. 

 - Senator Missen will be providing up to date figures later. He has not given me those figures so I cannot quote them to the Senate at this stage, but no doubt he will provide them in due course. As I said before, I am somewhat concerned about whether the Commonwealth Employment Service should charge fees comparable to those charged by private employment agencies. My philosophical doubts have been resolved in ways in addition to the answer given by the Minister. The organisations which have been critical of this Bill were given the opportunity to appear before the Norgard inquiry, but they did not do so. When referring to the Norgard inquiry, I might add that it recommended that a statutory authority be established. May I congratulate the Government for not taking up that suggestion. As a member of the Senate Finance and Government Operations Committee, I would like to say that obviously there are far too many statutory authorities in existence at the moment. I am pleased to see in this Bill that the Government has decided to appoint a national director. It will not give him the independence which would be created by a statutory authority but will keep him under the control of the Minister, which is precisely where he should be. 
-Thank you,  Senator McAuliffe.  Another factor which I believe to be of great importance is that the Commonwealth Employment Service provides a decentralised service. Unfortunately, in this country people constantly think only of the capital cities, in which these private firms are established. But the Commonwealth Employment Service has officers throughout rural Australia. It is a service which is vital to provincial towns, but it cannot continue to compete unless it provides the whole range of facilities which one expects of an employment service. 
As to the question of fees being charged by the Commonwealth Employment Service, I think that the matter which weighs most heavily in my mind in approving of this area of the Bill is the contrary philosophy of a free flow of market forces. There can be no doubt that employers will choose the best available service. In my book no private employment service worth its salt would fear competition from a government service even if no fee were being charged by the government service. Employers will not worry about the fee if the service is good. It then becomes a question of whether the private firm can provide a service to employers which is such that employers will look to that firm rather than to the Commonwealth Employment Service. Private firms nowadays can and do undertake psychological and other tests with a view to matching applicants for positions. Firms providing this sort of service will succeed with employers and in the placement of potential employees. On the other hand, inefficient employment firms naturally will go by the board. I do not believe that this Government should prop up inefficient services by hamstringing the Commonwealth Employment Service. Accordingly, I approve of the legislation, notwithstanding my philosophical difficulties about a nationalised industry. I support the legislation. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 June 1 978: 
1 ) How many of the social welfare research projects listed in Senate  Hansard,  8 April 1976, pages 1 1 84-6, have been completed. 
To what use have these projects been put. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, concerns tax avoidance schemes. I ask the Minister whether he can confirm that cheques for very substantial sums- literally tens of millions of dollars- are circulating between banks for tax avoidance purposes on a very substantial scale, despite the abolition of Currantype schemes. Can the Minister confirm that the Government believes that other tax avoidance schemes are rife and that they involve many millions of dollars? I also ask the Minister whether an adequate number of tax officers is available to check these practices and laundering operations. Finally, I ask whether Reserve Bank of Australia regulations might be used to prevent the transfer of funds overseas for off-shore avoidance schemes? 
My question, which concerns the generation of steam on a fluidised bed, is directed to the Minister for Science. I refer to research carried out- 

 Honourable senators interjecting- 


 - Mr President, I wonder whether I could seek your control of the Senate while I ask my question. 

 - Mr President, I intended no reflection on you. I withdraw the statement. My question, directed to the Minister for Science, concerns the generation of steam on a fluidised bed. I refer to research carried out in England on a new combustion technique to generate steam on a fluidised bed of sand. Has the Minister knowledge of this new technique and of any benefits which might flow from it? Can he say whether his Department will examine the introduction of this new technique to Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 1 May 1 978: 
1 ) Did Banks in Australia act in concert in striking an interest rate of 1 8 per cent for Bankcard. 
Is the 18 per cent subject to an 'interim authorisation' under the Trade Practices Act 1974; if so, when will the matter be dealt with by the Trade Practices Commission. 
Has the Government considered that Bankcard is being used as a device to enable banks to lend money at exorbitant finance company rates instead of overdraft rates. 
Do not Bankcard accounts express the interest charges at a rate per month not per annum. 
Is this practice not a rip-off of people who are persuaded by extensive advertising programs to use this system of paying by cash or cheque, and who formerly have had confidence in their banks and may not now appreciate the very high rate of interest being charged. 
Will the Minister: (a) take some steps to encourage a more competitive approach to Bankcard interest rates so that Banks might follow the downward trend of other interest rates; and (b) require banks to disclose the annual rate of interest on all Bankcard accounts. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
Will the Minister give consideration to lengthening the period of subsidy to employers, under the Special Youth Employment Training Program, from six months to one year for semi-skilled occupations, in view of the inadequacy of six months' training in these areas. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 June 1978: 
Has Medibank Private formed a subsidiary called Medibank Properties Pty Ltd to build new Medibank headquarters in Canberra. 
Will this building be occupied by Medibank, Medibank Private, and/or any other tenants. 
Has Medibank Private repaid the $10m interest-free loan borrowed from the Commonwealth Government in 1976. 
Does Medibank currently occupy any free space in premises owned or leased by the Commonwealth Government. 
Has any other private health fund an interest-free loan from the Commonwealth Government. 
Has any other private health fund been provided with free space in buildings owned or leased by the Commonwealth Government. 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs is about the specifications which are set by the Bureau of Customs for three aircraft which it wishes to have for its work. Has a 220-knot airspeed been specified by the Bureau in its requirements? Does the Minister now realise that the specification of such an airspeed would exclude Australia's Nomad aircraft? What is so special about 220 knots compared with the acknowledged assets of the Nomad aircraft as a specialised surveillance aircraft? Will the Minister consider changing the specifications to ensure that the Nomad aircraft falls within them? Further, will the Minister investigate why officers of his Department came up with specifications which appear to be tailor made for a United States aircraft? 
I present the following petition from 15 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
Telephone users outside major metropolitan telephone districts, particularly those conducting businesses outside those districts, suffer an unfair burden for fees charged for calls. 
The system of charging for calls on the basis of distance between non-adjoining zones instead of for the time of the call is unreasonable. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should require Telecom Australia to meter all calls, including local calls, and charge a uniform rate on a time basis regardless of distance between calling parties. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric System and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Treasurer, relates to the taxation of certain lump sum payments which was mentioned in the Budget Speech whereby changes are made in taxation on payments for unused annual and long service leave. In the Budget Speech the Treasurer said: 
. however, such payments in respect of long service leave for service prior to tonight will continue to be taxed under the present arrangements. 
In that sentence no reference is made to the tax on payments for unused annual leave. My question is in connection with unused annual leave accumulated prior to the reading of the Budget Speech. Why are there no phasing-in arrangements for accumulated annual leave? Is not the application of the new provision to entitlements gained earlier than the reading of the Budget Speech unfair and in fact retrospective? Would this not apply in Australia to merely a handful of people who would have accumulated their annual leave over perhaps the last two years or so, no doubt to the detriment of their own health? After all, the measure applies only to salary and wage earners, who are not involved in taxation avoidance schemes. Will the Government reconsider this measure? 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President  - 
No, I am not. As a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations I am rising to speak to the report. The Wiltona Hostel comprises a group of buildings erected between the Melbourne metropolitan cities of Williamstown and Altona. The complex is built on  5lA  hectares of land. It comprises a group of buildings which from the outside appear to be a set of two-storey flats beautifully constructed, if I may say so, in brick and giving all of the external appearance of being very desirable residences. These apparently desirable residences are in fact vacant and have to all intents and purposes been vacant since October 1972 except for a short period of occupancy as a result of the Darwin refugee problem. These vacant buildings are located in an area in which many people are living in conditions which quite frankly are intolerable. One flat was described to the Committee as a flat which had been converted from an aviary. 

 - Senator Messner reminds me that the witness described it as a chookhouse. 
It is a technical term- a chook-house. 
As the honourable senator sits near  Senator McLaren  I would have thought that he would have known all about it. As I said, these beautiful buildings which are vacant create among the local populace much concern because many people are living in this area in premises which ought to be condemned. The reality of the situation is that these premises are designed to accommodate altogether about 1,000 people. In fact, each of the units is specifically designed and was so designed originally by the architect with good and deliberate purpose only for temporary accommodation. To ensure that they would be for temporary accommodation only, each unit comprises one bedroom or two bedrooms and a bathroom. In fact there is no living room although one bedroom can be a convertible living room of a sort. There is no kitchen. There are no general facilities which would make it easy for these units to be converted into what we might call a flat. These buildings were constructed at a total cost of about $2.2m. The replacement value has been estimated at about $7m. Clearly, they have one specifically limited use; that is, as a migrant hostel. As I said, to all intents and purposes, apart from a short time when the buildings were used for Darwin refugees, they have been empty since October 1 972. 
The problem which was given to my Committee was to investigate and report on their establishment and operation and what should be done in relation to the disposal of the hostel. Firstly, the Committee looked at the first hostel, which existed between 1949 and 1962. Immediately following the Second World War the Federal Government owned this area of land. It originally had been the car park of the Williamstown racecourse. The Commonwealth erected on this area of land an inferior type of accommodation in response to an urgent need to house a large number of migrants. Nissen-type huts were constructed. It was right and proper that that sort of building be constructed as a matter of urgency to accommodate the large number of migrants who were then flooding into Australia. 
What was a matter of concern to the Committee, as indicated in the report, was not the initial use of the hostel accommodation but the reconstruction of the hostel on that site. What happened was that in about 1 96 1 a large number of people throughout Australia started to complain about the type of accommodation that migrants were being forced to use. This agitation went on for a number of years. It serves to demonstrate what can happen when people become emotionally involved in lobbying the government to take certain steps to do a particular thing, such as upgrading accommodation. No doubt, the media quite rightly were involved in pointing out the type of accommodation in which migrants were being forced to live. Sympathy was coming forward for migrants to Australia. The result of all that was that in 1963 the then Cabinet agreed to a program for upgrading these hostels. No doubt as a result of departmental recommendations the Cabinet set a series of criteria. Those criteria are set out on page 6 of the report. I would like to refer to them, because they are quite fascinating. They were: 
Hostels should be situated on Commonwealth owned land . . . 
Hostels should be chosen which already possessed adequate communal facilities (kitchens, dining rooms, stores, etc.) to save the expense of replacing them. 
Priority should be given to hostels where existing accommodation was of an inferior standard. 
Hostels should be within reach of industry which could provide suitable employment, new housing estates or home building sites, schools, shops and general community services. 
One might say that that was not an unreasonable set of criteria to establish in 1963. With hindsight, it is quite clear that Wiltona should never have been developed as a site. In fact, the site was bordered on all sides by a petrochemical and gas complex. Although the complex was not then fully developed, there were indications that it would fairly soon be fully developed. In 1978 it is clear that, although the site fitted the criteria to a T, it was a disastrous site to choose for the Commonwealth Government to spend money on. From there on, $2. 2m was spent in providing 580 rooms to accommodate about 960 people. At the same time- in other words, at the time when these buildings were being constructed- the surrounding petrochemical complex was being developed. The result is that these buildings are situated alongside a series of oil storage tanks. One would have to be quite fearful of what might happen should a fire break out. It is a situation which is clearly undesirable as a residence. 
It is very difficult to say. The Committee is unable to say, because they both happened at the same time. The petrochemical plant was being developed at the same time as the migrant hostel. The migrant hostel was there in a temporary capacity at the same time as an application was being made for the construction of buildings to develop the petrochemical plant. The petrochemical plant had been approved and the buildings were to be erected when it was decided to convert the temporary hostel into a permanent hostel. The Committee was unable to say which came first- the chicken or the egg. Clearly, they both happened at the same time. Clearly, no one really applied his mind to the question whether this was a suitable area for people to live in. 
We did not have that sort of town planning in those days. I pay respect to the Mayor of Williamstown, who gave evidence that one would have to acknowledge now that in those days there was a desire to get the migrants out of the local area. Some people did not want the migrants living near them. They did not want migrant hostels established in their area. Here was an ideal opportunity. The site was two miles down the road. There were no residents round about. There were open spaces which subsequently were to be developed for industrial sites. We could get rid of the migrants. 
We could fumigate them out, yes. That is in effect, what happened. From there on, of course, there has been one blunder after another, until by 1972 a magnificent structure was erected. Once we started to cut back on our migrant intake and we did not need these premises for people in this capacity, the Commonwealth Government found that they were surplus to its requirements. The Committee was confronted with the problem of what to do with them. Quite clearly they are not able to be converted with any degree of economy into residential premises, even if it could be said that it was desirable that they be used for residential purposes. It would not be a sound financial proposition. There is no ready use for them by surrounding industry; there is no ready use for them for office accommodation. The Commonwealth is stuck with these premises. 
I would like to refer to the fire hazard problem. The report clearly discloses that there was a conflict of evidence in relation to the use of the premises by people living in them. I do not mean their use by people using the premises throughout the day but their use by people sleeping in them overnight. I admired the courage of the  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Fire Board,  Mr R.  G. Smith, who in the face of evidence from the Melbourne Metropolitan Fire Brigade officer,  Mr T.  H. Williamson, that in no circumstances would he approve of these premises being used for accommodation, gave evidence that in certain circumstances which he detailed and subject to certain steps being taken he felt that they could be used for accommodation. It was pointed out to him that he was putting his neck on the block and he accepted that position. I admire a public servant who is prepared to stand by his recommendations and I think  Mr Smith  ought to be congratulated. One really would need to read the evidence to appreciate the nature of the step that  Mr Smith  took. 
The Committee believed that overall the consultative process and the criteria used in reaching the decision to rebuild Wiltona were inadequate. 
One appreciates that it was not 1978; it was 1 963 when there was not the awareness of environmental factors that there is at present. Despite that, the Committee felt quite strongly that not enough consultation had taken place but also that no-one really had had a good look at it and said to themselves: 'We own this land; it meets all those requirements but do we really think we ought to spend money on this hostel for people to live in?' Having considered all the relevant factors the Committee came to the view that the hostel was being used at the moment for no purpose other than as a migrant or refugee hostel of the Commonwealth Government and that there was no other purpose for which the Commonwealth could use it. 
The Committee considered that the premises would be acceptable for use in that capacity subject only to three very stringent steps being taken in relation to fire precautions. They are listed on page 12 of the report: That an audible alarm system be installed in the hostel interconnected with the refinery's watchroom so that in an emergency the residents can be alerted; that procedures be established for the evacuation of the occupants, these procedures to be prepared in consultation with the fire brigade; and, finally, that an assurance be obtained from Petroleum Refineries Australia Pty Ltd that only crude oil or fuels of similar characteristics be held in or passed through tanks 800, 801 and 802 which are the tanks closest to the hostel. The Committee formed the opinion that unless and until those procedures were accepted the hostel be considered unacceptable for use, although the evidence was that the possibility of a fire occurring was very low. 
As to the use of the hostel, it would appear that with the current problem of refugees from Asia it may well be that the hostel will have to be used in the near future, but within the foreseeable future that problem will pass and the hostel will have to be disposed of. To that end the Committee made a number of recommendations for the disposal of the hostel. For the purpose of the Commonwealth taking action in accordance with its undertaking referred to during the debate on the previous report, the Committee recommended that in order to overcome delays brought about by protracted negotiations there should be an early meeting of the relevant Commonwealth and State Ministers and the Mayor of Williamstown to negotiate the disposal of both properties and their future use; 'both properties' being the hostel and the Williamstown rifle range which adjoins it and which is about to be disposed of by the Commonwealth Government. 
That was the penultimate recommendation of the Committee in regard to action to be taken by the Government. 
Finally, I want to refer to ways of overcoming the delays caused by protracted negotiations. There have been negotiations off and on for the disposal of the hostel since October 1972 and these negotiations have not yet reached fruition. The Committee formed the opinion that it was not able to lay the blame for the delay on any particular person or organisation. It seemed that a step would be taken and the matter would sit for weeks or months and then another step would be taken, by which time the circumstances had changed so that the negotiations fell by the wayside and had to be commenced again. 
Yes, perhaps they did work through solicitors. Ultimately the Committee formed the opinion that a major cause of delay had been the involvement of a large number of Commonwealth and State government departments and a local authority resulting in a bureaucratic maze and an excessive waste of time and money. That is the explanation for the delay. One cannot point to any specific department or bureaucracy, only to the conglomeration of Commonwealth, State and local government bodies passing the problem backwards and forwards from one to the other. This ultimately resulted in enormous delays in action being taken. To overcome this problem the Committee has recommended that there be a conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers together with the Mayor of Williamstown to negotiate the disposal of this property and the Williamstown rifle range at the same time. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs relates to a recent decision by the United States Federal Trade Commission in which judgment was given against manufacturers of Anacin for a $24m bill for advertising to tell consumers that the manufacturer's best selling analgesic was not a tension reliever. I ask: Has the Trade Practices Commission examined Australian advertising of analgesics? If so, is it satisfied that no deceptive claims are being made by the makers of non-prescription painkillers sold in Australia? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Construction whether he is aware of a recent report from the British Building Research Establishment on pre-stressed concrete and the chemical action of calcium chloride on steel which is apparently used in reinforcing concrete as a fast setting agent. I ask whether, to the Minister's knowledge, calcium chloride is used, or has been used, as a fast setting agent for concrete on any buildings in Australia. Are the new National Gallery and the new High Court buildings in danger of falling down? Will the Minister undertake also to investigate whether any Commonwealth buildings have been built using these methods and whether there has been any unacceptable corrosion? Will the Minister consider possibly banning the practice? 
-Firstly, let me congratulate those honourable senators who have made their maiden speeches in the Senate since I last spoke. In particular, I refer to  Senator Puplik,  who made his maiden speech this evening, and to  Senator Hamer  and  Senator Teague.  We have heard some excellent maiden speeches on both sides of the chamber. This evening I want to devote my time in my speech on the Budget to the matters raised by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  in his speech in the House of Representatives last Thursday, 14 September. In the speech he opened up the subject of unemployment and said he hoped that the debate would take fire. I hope to make some contribution to that debate. I certainly do not claim to be an expert; I am not even an economist. However, the first point I make is that I recommend very serious study of the Minister's speech to anyone who wishes to become involved in the debate. I think it is a prerequisite to the debate. I will have to presume that the people who involve themselves in the debate have read the speech, although I would like to repeat it in toto. It appears to me from what  Mr Street  said that the problem will be with us for a very long time regardless of what we may do. I will explain that statement in due course by referring to what has happened in the United States. To deal with the problem successfully we will need first of all to recognise that it is very complex and that, as a complex problem, it will require complex soultions, both short and long term. There is no simple answer. Until that is recognised much nonsense will be written and spoken on the subject. Further, the solutions may very well involve reconsideration of some principles, especially social principles, which many of us have held dear to our hearts as inviolable. 
Unfortunately in consideration of this problem one must start with the causes. Because they relate to the years 1973 and 1974 they often drag down the debate to party rhetoric. I hope that I shall not speak party rhetoric and I hope that the Opposition will also take up the debate without getting involved in party rhetoric. Firstly, there are the historical reasons. Let me start off by admitting that, during 1973 apparently the then Government, under the leadership of  Sir William  McMahon, deliberately started to inflate the system. So when the Labor Party took over in December 1972 the economy was such that it might have been described as bubbling, which the Labor Government either failed to recognise or refused to acknowledge. Having said that, I hope that at least someone in the Opposition will have the courage to admit that a series of blunders occurred during 1973 and 1 974. They were: Support for a wages explosion; the 1973 revaluation; the tariff cut; support for the introduction of equal pay as soon as possible; and then the credit squeeze. Since then we have felt the effects of the world depression, which is currently described as the worst since the 1930s, but it would have to be acknowledged that the effects of that depression did not reach us until after 1975. Those factors were the causes of unemployment. I refer to them as the Australian historical reasons. 
Why then has the level of unemployment increased under this Government? Firstly, I wish to acknowledge that the Government's attack on inflation by a policy of contracting demand and restraining growth of the money supply has not assisted to create jobs. I frankly admit that these policies have in ways contributed to unemployment. I do not say that they are the major cause or even one of the major causes of unemployment but I admit that they have contributed. Nevertheless I support these policies. I believe further that the vast majority of Australians support them. 
They certainly do. The vast majority of Australians support them because they recognise that the first step to economic recovery and ultimately to the solution of the unemployment problem must be the defeat of inflation. The Government's policies in this area are demonstratably succeeding. We, and I believe most Australians, support them even though we, and I believe most Australians, recognise that they probably contribute to the unemployment problem. Having said that, I will move on. There are many other factors contributing to the unemployment problem. In my view they are more important factors. 
Next must come structural change- changes in the demand for particular labour skills, changes in the pattern of international trade and domestic consumption, sharp increases in the prices of imported equipment and investment in labour-saving equipment, which I support. All of these changes are structural and they have and will continue to affect unemployment. Different types of skills are needed as the demand moves from manufacturing to service industries. Different retailing methods are being introduced and there is much automation with the introduction of computers. 
These changes are inevitable. To try to prevent them is foolish. Strikes such as the recent Telecom employees strike would be funny if they were not so serious. I am reminded that the largest candle making company in the world at the turn of the century decided in its wisdom that it would ignore the new electric light business because it believed that most people recognised that electric lighting would be dangerous. Ultimately, of course, that company went broke. I wonder what jobs were saved as a result of that management decision to ignore the introduction of electric lighting. Further, I wonder how many people are now employed throughout the world in the electric light industry. That is the sort of structural change which takes place in an economy and which is irresistible. 
Why are we not able to compete with the South Koreans in the ship building industry? Simply because our labour intensive methods are estimated to take a year to cut the amount of steel for a ship that the South Koreans are able to cut in one week with laser equipment. Our archaic methods in the shipbuilding industry have not in fact saved jobs. What has happened simply is that we have lost the industry. If" industries in a country such as Australia do not keep up with the best equipment in the world they will go out of business. That is a simple proposition which should be long remembered. 
I have mentioned four of the causes of the present unemployment problem. They are the Australian historic causes of the early 1970s, the world recession which is now acknowledged to be the worst since the 1930s, government antiinflation policies and structural change. But these reasons are not sufficient to explain the growth and continuation of our present problem. There is a further major contributory factor. It is the excessive rise in real wages, which has been estimated to account for about 45 per cent- over 170,000 people- of the current unemployed. What has happened is that the burden on employers of real wages has far outstripped productivity. Between June 1973 and March 1978 average earnings have increased by almost 100 per cent. During the same period productivity rose by about 10 per cent. So the rate of increase in earnings outstripped the rate of increase in productivity ten to one. But that is not all. I have mentioned the burden of real wages to employers. Employers not only have to pay the wages of their staff but also have to cover holiday pay, together with a loading of 17V4 per cent, workers compensation and long service leave. On top of that they have to pay payroll tax. That is the total of the real wages burden on employers. Productivity simply has not risen sufficiently to meet that burden. The result is as inevitable as it is obvious. I believe that it is demonstrably the major factor in the continued unemployment prblem 
I think that I have now summarised the five major reasons for the current problem. There may be other reasons. I would welcome details of them because it seems to me that the reasons must be clearly recognised before we can turn to examining solutions, which I now propose to do. I certainly acknowledge that I do not have the solutions. All I can hope to do is to mention some of those which have been proposed and comment on them. I hope that in the long run the debate will clarify the solutions. Firstly, let me deal with the simple solution. The solution is not simply a matter of the Government spending more money. The Labor Government tried that in 1975 with disastrous results. If that simple solution is an option, why is unemployment a world-wide problem? The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom has publicly acknowledged that it is not a solution, and if anyone intends to enter this debate with proposals which are based fundamentally on increased government expenditure I suggest that he not bother to do so. 
Secondly, may I suggest that we ignore the socalled Hayden Budget as a political strategem and not a serious contribution to the debate.  Mr 
Tony Thomas, in the  Age,  dealt with it effectively when he said that it would involve the possibility of a balance of payments crisis, a severe cut in corporate investment and profitability, a 180- degree turn in the direction of monetary policy, forced rises in interest rates, significantly faster wage growth, and adverse effects on consumer confidence. But I suppose that we have to be fair to  Mr Hayden  and assume that he has not yet made his contribution to the debate on this aspect which was commenced last Thursday by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. 
I should like to pay tribute to two people. The first is the Minister. Much political hogwash has been expressed about his speech of last Thursday, but so far there has been no real attempt to examine it in detail. Comment has been made about only one statement in it. As I said before, I recommend the speech to all who are interested in the problem; it should be studied in detail. Secondly, I should like to pay a tribute to  Mr P.  P. McGuinness, the economics editor of the  Australian Financial Review  who, in my view, stands out like a beacon among Australia's economic journalists. In particular, I pay tribute to his articles in the  National Times;  for example, his latest, the article for the week ending 23 September, headed, 'It's time to face up to the issue of wage levels'. Certainly, I do not agree with everything that he says, but in my view he lays bare many of the problems, and that in a manner that the layman can understand. 
I should like to put to the Senate the simple proposition that a demand increased recovery would be aborted by rising real wages, or by accelerating inflation. By that I mean that if the Government tried to prime the economy, as some of the contributors to this debate would have us do, the strength of the unions is such, and the attitude of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is such, that wages would rise almost immediately with demand and we would again have galloping inflation. Quite frankly, I think that only those who have not given the problem any serious consideration would doubt what I have just said. For some time now,  Mr McGuinness  has been suggesting that a temporary reduction in real wages, perhaps by a temporary abandonment of indexation accompanied by some government measures of economic stimulus, might bring about an almost immediate substantial fall in unemployment. There may be considerable merit in that suggestion, and I believe that it warrants consideration by the Government. 
On the other hand, the Minister has rightly drawn our attention to the American experience, to which I referred in my opening remarks tonight. In the United States, an increase in the number of jobs available has been seen to attract to the work force people who had not previously sought employment. The consequence has been that the unemployment figures have not fallen. For example, in the past year some four million new jobs were created but unemployment fell by only one and a half million. If that were to happen in Australia the consequence of the creation of new jobs might very well be that our unemployment figures would remain static. 
I turn to major structural changes in the economy which are tending to reduce the rate of growth of demand for labour in fields which in the past were important for labour. I suggest that we must be careful not to interfere too much with these changes, or the problem simply will multiply and become impossible of solution. As I have explained, it is not possible to prevent these changes, quite the contrary. Many of them, especially those which ensure that Australia is up with the latest and the best in provision of equipment, should be encouraged. What needs to be done is to ensure that the changes occur with the least harm to individuals. In this respect we need job subsidies, temporary job creation and retraining schemes. I am concerned about the difficulties which adults have in becoming qualified tradesmen. I appreciate that the crafts guard jealously their apprenticeship qualification schemes, but they need to be careful, or they may be bypassed. Despite our unemployment problems, there is still a substantial shortage of skilled tradesmen. If the crafts do not allow qualification otherwise than through the apprenticeship system they may find that the community has found a way around them. This is put not as a threat but simply as a recognition of what happens. 
In particular, I believe that there is a very bright future for the young skilled tradesman who has been educated to high school certificate level, or even beyond. Once the financial advantage of being a tradesman has been recognised, many will move into that field, and why not? They will make excellent tradesmen. No doubt they will find some way of becoming qualified, or some way of acting as a qualified tradesman. I have seen it happen before, in other industries. 
I turn to two ancillary matters that, even though they are not major factors in the problem, are of considerable concern. The first relates to equal pay for equal work by juniors. I can see merit in some of the claims that are made in this regard. I can understand young men claiming that they are being exploited, but at least they have a job and are learning a skill and the question of exploitation is debatable. My concern is that, if they achieve equal pay for so-called equal work, they may find themselves unemployed. I am aware of an argument, on a statistical basis, that the proportion of unemployed juniors to total unemployed has not risen substantially beyond 40 per cent. Therefore, the changes in the wages of young people, relative to adult wages, can be only a minor factor in the problem of unemployed youth. On the other hand, I am aware of an argument by Professor Max Corden of the Australian National University that the high level of wages for juniors is a major cause of their being unemployed. Frankly, I like Professor Corden 's suggestion that the remedy may be the abolition of a minimum wage for juniors. 
Next I refer to the growth in the employment of married women in the work force. I have no objection to married women working but believe that our policies should not actively encourage married women, especially if they have young children, to work at low wage rates. It is fair enough if married women can earn wages high enough to pay for child minding services and such. That might be acceptable, but I think it is wrong for government policies to encourage married women to go out to work at the bare minimum wage. It is bad enough for its effect on the unemployment problem, but is terrible for the children and must be creating psychological problems that, in due course, we will have to pay for. 
Finally, I look at the excessive wage problem. It is now commonly accepted that any increase in real wages is made at the expense of employment, yet the Minister has pointed out that from December 1975 to December 1977 the minimum weekly wage rose by no less than $31. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission sees its role as one of settling disputes, so it settles union claims by granting something less than the amount claimed, but more than nothing. There can be no doubt that this is done at the cost of the unemployed who are, of course, not represented before the Commission. So the Commission, in effect, is looking after wage earners, and wage earners are looking after themselves, at the expense of the unemployed. Effectively, the unemployed are paying for wage indexation. 
At the same time, the Government is attacking inflation by employing policies which do not create a surplus of jobs. So the unemployed are, in fact, copping it both ways. But worse, the Arbitration Commission has now taken upon itself the right to interfere in the Government's fiscal measures to control inflation without affecting unemployment. By that I mean that when, for example, the Government imposes a tax, direct or indirect, the Commission tailors its indexation decision to alter the burden of that tax. In other words, it increases the award wage at the expense of more unemployed. The Commission is interfering quite deliberately in what the Government of this country is trying to achieve. I referred earlier to an article by  Mr McGuinness  in the  National Times.  He said: 
The upshot of its actions in recent years is that the Arbitration Commission is increasingly like the High Court, setting itself up as an economic legislature, with power to make arbitrary and ill considered forays into economic policy making to defeat the intentions of Government policy. But the Commission is not elected, nor is it answerable either to the Government or the electorate. This is truly power without responsibility. 
The Minister has put the wages problem in very simple terms. He said: 
The basic choice now, from which there is no escaping, is between higher wages for those in jobs or work for those who are not. 
It is clear that there will be a long period of adjustment during which the national approach to the unemployed needs to be improved. In August this year an estimated 332,800 people were unemployed and looking for full time work. Another 63,200 were unemployed and looking for part time work. Clearly, many people are genuinely seeking employment. They need to be treated fairly by the community, not subjected to criticism or called dole bludgers. They need proper facilities and help to ensure that the psychological and sociological costs of unemployment are minimised. 
We also need to recognise that it may be of advantage that so many of the young unemployed travel our country and the world and find other tasks to interest them. Perhaps they use their artistic skills to make products which they sell in unusual markets, in unusual places, at unusual times. It may very well be that the community will have to come to terms with such people and recognise that they are not bad, just different. They may even be worthy of praise for their initiative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 4 May 1978: 
How frequently does the National Energy Advisory Committee meet. 
Will the Minister for National Development make the minutes of such meetings available to interested senators. 
Has consideration been given to accelerating research programs in: (a) the use of solar energy; and (b) coal conversion to liquid or gaseous fuels. 
Have suitable low quality non-coking coal deposits for conversion of ground coal into liquid fuels been regionally identified in Victoria. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer and I ask: Has the Treasurer acknowledged that there is in existence a flourishing tax avoidance system which has increased very substantially in recent years, perhaps even in recent months? Does this mean that there is now a vastly increased work load for the officers of the Australian Taxation Office who are trying to investigate these schemes? Have the staff numbers in the Taxation 
Office been increased sufficiently to cope with the extra work load? 
My question which is directed to the Attorney-General relates to section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act and tax avoidance schemes. Does the AttorneyGeneral agree that one of the Government's problems with tax avoidance schemes is the interpretation by the High Court of Australia of section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act? Will the Government consider amending section 260 in an attempt to catch more of the current tax avoidance schemes? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 9 June 1978: 
Will the Minister give consideration to a substantial increase in research and development grants into alternative energy sources in the financial year 1978-79, in view of the International Energy Agency prediction that in 198S demand for oil from the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries will exceed supply by between four and twelve million barrels a day. 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric System and request the Government to restore the Imperial System. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present a petition from 60 citizens of Australia. This makes a total of 6,409 citizens who have signed this sort of petition. The petition reads: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
Telephone users outside major metropolitan telephone districts, particularly those conducting business outside those districts, suffer an unfair burden for fees charged for calls. 
The system of charging fees for calls based on the distance between non-adjoining zones instead of for the time of the call is archaic and unreasonable. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should require Telecom Australia to standardise all telephone fees for calls on a time basis so that the fee for calls of equal time be the same throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The Acting Clerk- Petitions have been lodged for presentation as follows: 
-I have been drawn into this debate by the nonsense we have just heard from  Senator Evans  on the other side. Quite clearly, a reasonable analysis of what he said to the Senate is that although he is a member of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs to which this Bill is being referred his mind has been made up already. He does not want to hear the evidence. He does not want to be confused by facts. He has made up his mind already. I have been drawn in by the need to say to the Senate that I believe  Senator Evans  has denigrated the Senate committee system by the 20-minute speech we have just heard from him in which he has told us all the things that are wrong with the Bill before he had heard any evidence about it. I say quite seriously to  Senator Evans  that he should give every consideration to resigning from the Committee. I think it is disgraceful that the Senate committee system should be denigrated by his presence on the Committee while it deals with this Bill. I say that in his presence, quite genuinely and sincerely. In my view, the report of the Committee, whatever it might be, will be greatly reduced in value because  Senator Evans  perhaps will continue to be a member of it. He has expressed his views about the Bill before he has heard anything at all about it. I say to the Senate that  Senator Evans  should resign voluntarily and willingly from the Committee. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health and it is about the expenditure by the Health Insurance Commission on buildings to house its officers. Did Medibank incur a very substantial loss in the financial year ended 30 June 1978? Does Medibank own one building in Hobart and is it at present erecting a massive new building in Phillip in the Australian Capital Territory to house its staff? Are the capital costs of this building additional to Medibank 's loss? Will the Minister consider changing the provisions of the Health Insurance Act to prevent Medibank from spending taxpayers' money on erecting Taj Mahals throughout the country? 
In the absence of  Senator Messner,  who unfortunately has been called out of the chamber, on behalf of the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations I present the Committee's report on its inquiry into the use of consultants by the Commonwealth Public Service. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 

 Mr President, the report is fairly brief and selfexplanatory. The Committee examined the procedures currently operating within the Public Service governing the employment of consultants. These procedures are outlined in the report. They have been tightened considerably in recent years and the Committee considers that they are satisfactory at the present time. The Committee agrees with the Public Service Board that the procedures could serve as a useful model for statutory authorities whose staffing arrangements do not come under the Board 's authority.  Mr President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I am forced to enter this debate because of the matter raised by  Senator Evans.  I draw the attention of the Senate to what the averment clause relates to so far as the offence is concerned. The offence is under proposed section 6(2). 
Yes, it is for not paying the tax. 
Yes, I appreciate that but we are talking about a tax in respect of the departure of a person from Australia. I am certainly not in support of changing the onus of proof as a matter of common occurrence. What happens in the case of a person who has left Australia? I refer to what  Senator Cavanagh  said about how one prosecutes such a person. I am not too sure about how one issues and serves a summons on someone who is no longer in Australia. I do not think that that question has been properly answered. Quite frankly, I think the Opposition is raising an insignificant matter in relation to the onus of proof in a simple charge against a defendant who is no longer in Australia. It seems to me to be only reasonable in the circumstances that an officer of the Department should be able to lodge an averment stating that a certain person had left Australia without paying the tax rather than have to travel to court and prove this by giving oral evidence. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
1 ) In what areas of Victoria are subscriber trunk dialling facilities not yet available. 
When is it anticipated that subscriber trunk dialling facilities will be available in each of the areas mentioned in reply to part ( 1 ). 
I present the following petition from 29 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the provision of payments for abortion through items of the Medical Benefits Schedule is an unacceptable endorsement of abortion which has now reached the levels of a national tragedy with at least 60,000 unborn babies being killed in 1977. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will so amend the Medical Benefits Schedule as to preclude the payment of any benefit for abortion. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development: Is it a fact that in 1 978-79 the Federal Government will spend 9c per head on national sport, $1.86 per head on the arts and approximately $200 per head on health? This, from a sports viewpoint, on a ratio basis compares most unfavourably with other Commonwealth countries. I am aware that the Government is giving substantial support to the Life. Be in it' campaign but in comparison national sport appears to be suffering. Is the 9c per head not a miserable contribution to national sport? Might an increase not help to reduce the amount needed for health? Will the Minister review the Federal Government's contribution to the Confederation of Australian Sport with a view to increasing it? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It concerns the recent change of government in Sweden. Has the Centre Party in Sweden been thrown out of office by the Social Democrats on a pro-uranium issue? Does this mean there is now in office in Sweden a predominantly Labour government dedicated to making Sweden the world's most advanced nation in harnessing nuclear fission? Is it a fact that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has not reported any of these events? Can the Minister say whether it is true that the newscasters of the ABC and the producers of the ABC commentary sessions such as  AM  and  PM  have in fact refused to report these events? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport by saying that both Westernport and Port Phillip Bays are particularly susceptible to serious ecological damage from oil spills and other shipinitiated pollution accidents. It is now acknowledged that some ships have a history of pollution, indicating such gross negligence that spillages by them no longer can be described as accidental. I appreciate that under the Navigation Act the Minister has certain powers to act where oil already is escaping from a ship, or he is satisfied that it is likely to escape from a ship. I ask: Does the Minister have any power similar to that recently adopted in the United States of America to ban- I repeat 'ban'- foreign vessels which have a history of pollution accidents? If not, will the Minister give consideration to the early adoption of legislation which would enable such foreign vessels to be banned from Australian ports and territorial waters? 
I  present the following petition from 55 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth. 
That the provision of payments for abortion through items of the Medical Benefits Schedule is an unacceptable endorsement of abortion which has now reached the levels of a national tragedy with at least 60.000 unborn babies being killed in 1977. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will so amend the Medical Benefits Schedule as to preclude the payment of any benefit for abortion. 
And you petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I  present the following petition from 1 80 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members ofthe Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition ofthe undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to: 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, is about the massive profit of the Australian Telecommunications Commission for the year ended 30 June 1978 which totalled $ 184.9m. This brought the profits for the past four years for Telecom to almost $600m. I refer to page 12 of the annual report of Telecom Australia in which the  Chairman  has placed great emphasis on the benefits of the profits of Telecom being used as interest free money by the Commission. I ask: Does this mean, in effect, that Telecom is using the public's money interest free rather than going to the open market to borrow from the public at a fair rate of interest? Should the Government not require Telecom to pay these profits into consolidated revenue for the benefit of all Australians? 
I present the following petition from 694 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth. 
That the provision of payments for abortion through items of the Medical Benefits Schedule is an unacceptable endorsement of abortion which has now reached the levels of a national tragedy with at least 60,000 unborn babies being killed in 1977. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will so amend the Medical Benefits Schedule as  to  preclude the payment of any benefit for abortion. 
And your petitions as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
ACT Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, is about the lack of competition among Australian banks. I preface it by referring to the June 1978 edition of  Rydge's,  which has been delivered to all parliamentarians, and by quoting something which was said by  Mr John  O'Brien, the managing director of an Australian owned electrical company. He said: 
We borrow more money unsecured overseas- just on our name and reputation- than we can borrow locally with the total business secured . . . Australian banks are a monopoly. I wish they would look at Australian banks under the Trade Practices Act. I 'd like to see them get some competition from top international banks. 
Does the Minister accept that because Australian banks are in a monopoly situation they have been able to adopt lending policies which are so conservative that they are hindering the development of Australian businesses? Will the Minister do something about the matter? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science and Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the $656,000 grant to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to provide three teams to monitor resources within the 200 nautical mile Australian fishing zone in support of the management role of the Department of Primary Industry. I ask the Minister: Is it true that none of these teams will be operating in the area of Portland, Victoria, which is now known to have substantial fish stocks? Is it also true that only one modern deep-sea trawler, the  Margaret Philipa,  is available to support these investigations off-shore from Portland? I appreciate that the fishing fleets themselves will generate much standardised data, but they are used to operating fairly close inshore. Under these circumstances, I further ask how long it will be before a further program can be developed for the proper conservation and management of these resources. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity. The Minister will be aware of negotiations between the United States Boeing aircraft company and the Government Aircraft Factories and Hawker De Havilland Australia Pty Ltd, Sydney, for the manufacture of the internal wing ribs of the new Boeing 767. Have these negotiations been going on for nearly three months? Is it true that the negotiations now seem to have stalled so that Australia is in danger of losing $60m to $80m in offset manufacturing arrangements and may lose the opportunity to acquire some of the most sophisticated air frame manufacturing equipment in the world? In view of the importance of this offset manufacturing to the future of Australia's aircraft industry and defence production capability for the next decade, what steps is the Government taking to ensure that these offset contracts are not lost to the country? 
-] direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. The Government of the United Kingdom requires young Australians who are not patrials to obtain a work permit before they may seek casual employment during working holiday visits to the United Kindom. Do any other countries impose restrictions on young Australian visitors seeking casual employment? Further, does Australia have any restrictions on young foreign tourists working casually in this country? Finally, will the Government make representations to those countries that impose restrictions to afford our nationals the same courtesies as we afford their nationals? 
-Much has now been said in this debate and no doubt there is still a lot more to be said. So I shall not be keeping the Senate very long in putting my views on the matter. Certainly I shall not be lecturing the Senate for 43 minutes as if all honourable senators were poor backward students who do not really understand simple proposals put forward to them either by way of original motions, amendments or even foreshadowed motions. I would like to say sincerely that I respect the views honourable senators have expressed in this debate as their personal decisions made after deep reflection and with conviction. Certainly, there has been some esoteric and convoluted reasoning in order I believe for people to justify voting in a particular way, which is the basic way they feel on the question of abortion. 
I also acknowledge that honourable senators have done their homework on this subject before they have come into this debate. I doubt very much that the words which have been expressed in the Senate today will convince any honourable senators to change their minds on how they intend to vote on this subject. I acknowledge the merit of many of the arguments that have been put forward. In particular, I acknowledge the merit of the arguments that were put forward by my colleagues  Senator Hamer  and  Senator Puplick  in relation to the legalistic actions of the Government and the answer given by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in the other place. I would also like to pay a special tribute to  Senator Tate  for what I believe to be the most original contribution to the debate today in that he applied his mind to the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance and drew to the attention of all of us the fact that the Ordinance allows the Capital Territory Health Commission to do precisely what the Legislative Assembly wants it to do. 
There is no doubt that it was very original of  Senator Tate  to look at the Ordinance and so decide to put forward that proposition as not an unreasonable one. In fact I accept and adopt it. The simple matter that we all must resolve is our view on abortion. Repeatedly I have heard honourable senators here today say that this is not a debate on abortion. I cannot accept that suggestion. I cannot accept that the consequence of the disallowance of this Ordinance will be no change in the abortion law as it applies in the Capital Territory. The proposal that was put forward by  Senator Ryan  for the adoption of these recommendations- by the 47 or 51 recommendations- contains the simple provision, recommendation No. 5, that there shall be a clinic conducted by the Capital Territory Health Commission within the grounds of a public hospital to perform abortions up to II weeks of pregnancy. In effect that will mean, to my mind, that abortion on demand will become the commonplace situation in the Australian Capital Territory regardless of what other honourable senators might try to convince themselves about this subject at present. I am totally opposed to that situation arising, notwithstanding all of the arguments, convoluted or otherwise, that we are hearing here today. Accordingly, I intend to vote against the motion. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In the hope that there will be no dispute about the question I hope that you,  Mr President,  will listen carefully also. Is it important to the success of this Government's economic policy that investors have confidence in both the Federal Government and also the State governments, not only current governments but also long term possible alternative governments? Is the Minister aware that, over the weekend, the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party re-adopted a policy of socialisation, a policy which it dropped some years ago? How does this decision affect the Federal Government's concern for the confidence of investors in Australia and in Victoria in particular? 
If the question is legitimate now, it was legitimate when  Senator Missen  asked it. There is no similarity in the questions.  Senator Missen  's question asked for an opinion in relation to Australian Labor Party policy. My question asked for an opinion in relation to this Government 's policy. 
I present the following petition from 87 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament Assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
Lithuania, a nation of over 3 million people, is deprived of human freedom and those national and individual rights which are deemed sacred in Australia today. 
In 1940, Lithuania was occupied by the USSR in coalition with Hitler Nazi Germany, Lithuania, with a history of seven centuries as an identifiable State and also twenty-three years as a modern republic, now represents a compelling case study of the violation of human rights by the Soviet Occupation Regime. The Lithuanian nation accepted Christianity in 1251. By 1386 most the Lithuanian State had accepted Christianity and Western European culture. 
Those who have the courage to speak out in defence of national and human rights in Lithuania are dealt with by the Moscow government in a manner which is abhorrent to every freedom-minded person in Australia. 
In recent time the following Lithuanian dissidents have been imprisoned in concentration camps: Viktoras Petkus, Balys Gajauskas, Nijole Sadunaite, Algirdas Zypre, Petras Plumpa, Sarunas Zukauskas, Vytautas Kavoliunas, Povilas Petronis, Ona Pranckunaite, Petras Paulaitis, J. Matulionis and many others. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should condemn the following methods which the Soviet Regime makes use of to silence dissidentsprison camps, psychiatric institutions, drug therapy and exile in Siberia. We further ask you to intercede on behalf of the above mentioned Lithuanian dissidents in order to free them from their imprisonment. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I preface it by saying that it has been stated that, by 198 1 , there will be approximately 45,000 surplus teachers at an expense to the taxpayer of $795m and that these teachers will have no prospects of jobs in the teaching profession. In view of the fact that the average teacher load of Victorian secondary school teachers is already only 16.2 hours a week compared with an average of between 2 1 and 25 hours a week in the United States, Canada and England, the further fact that the overall student population is now on the decrease in Australian schools and the final fact that no evidence supports a contention that lower teacher loads provide any better quality of education anyway, I ask: What action has been taken or is being considered to encourage these potential surplus teachers to transfer to other activities which offer reasonable job prospects and which would assist in containing soaring education costs? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
1 ) Did Medibank make a very substantial loss during the year ended 30 June 1978. 
Does Medibank own one building in Hoban, and is it erecting a massive new building at Phillip, Australian Capital Territory. 
Are the capital costs of this building additional to Medibank 's loss. 
Will the Minister consider recommending an amendment to the Health Insurance Act 1973 to prevent further such extravagant buildings being constructed. 
I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity a question about the activities of the Australian Government Clothing Factory at Coburg, Victoria. I refer to the annual report of the Department of Productivity for 1977-78, which states in Appendix J, referring to the Australian Government Clothing Factory. 
The fact that some traditional customers such as Telecom Australia and Australia Post, now buy uniforms by public tender could eventually reduce the work load. 
Is this an acknowledgment that the price at which the Australian Government Clothing Factory supplies uniforms is not competitive with prices of uniforms supplied by private tender? Will the Government consider opening tenders for the supply of uniforms to our defence forces to manufacturers other than the Australian Government Clothing Factory in an effort to reduce costs? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that tomorrow is the 60th anniversary of the declaration of independence of the free and democratic republic of Latvia following the First World War? Is the Minister aware that Latvia is a small, proud nation of two million people with their own language, a centuries old culture of their own and a history of independence in excess of 800 years? Is the Minister aware that the nation has been occupied by the Soviet Union for 33 years? Does the Minister appreciate how Australians would feel it this country had been occupied by the Japanese since 1942 and were still being occupied by the Japanese? On this 60th anniversary of the independence of Latvia, will the Government register a further protest with the occupying country, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that the Government is now negotiating with South East Asian nations for a reduction in air fares between Australia and Asian capital cities? Is it anticipated that an early announcement about that may be made? Is the Government aware that it is now cheaper to fly from the eastern States to New Zealand and return than from Perth to the eastern States and return? I am wondering whether the situation eventually may be reached that it will be cheaper to fly from Melbourne to Sydney via Singapore than to fly direct on our interstate airlines. 
-The Senate is debating the States Grants (Roads) Amendment Bill 1978, which amends the 1977 Act by providing an additional $33m to the States for road works in 1978-79. This brings the Federal allocation to States for roads to $508m, which complies with the Government's undertaking to maintain road grants to the States at a level equivalent in real terms to the amount granted last year. Last Friday, when we were debating this Bill in the Senate, we heard  Senator Gietzelt  on behalf of the Opposition criticise the 
Government for its failure to spend more money out of its annual revenue on Australian roads. 
With the current heavy legislative program, I believe this may be my only chance to speak on a Budget Bill such as this. I want to refer to the Opposition's continued attacks on the Government for failing to increase its expenditure on so many items. This has applied to every Bill relating to expenditure, except Bills for expenditure on defence, which has been before the Senate. In my view the Australian Labor Party is continuing to show a total lack of financial restraint. For example, last week Labor's spokesman on the Australian Capital Territory announced that self-government in the Capital Territory would  cost  'no more ' if Labor were elected. Iri other words, he was committing the Opposition to an open-ended contract that the people of the Territory, if they voted for self-government, would be funded by the Australian taxpayers apparently forever. There was certainly no limitation in his Press release on either time or money. The Opposition in both this chamber and the other place, has shown the same lack of restraint towards all Budget Bills. It seems that it has learnt nothing from the follies of 1972 to 1975 - 
What fascinates me with the Opposition's criticism of the Government for failing to increase its expenditure on these various items is that the Government has admitted that it wanted to spend $ 1,500m more than it had budgeted to spend. Right from the word go the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  admitted that by the time all the programs which the Government wanted to introduce had been placed before the Government, the budgeted deficit was $6,000m. The Government cut the expenditure that it proposed on as many items as it possibly could and reduced that figure to an estimated deficit of $4,500m. In other words, it is saying that the Government admitted quite frankly that it wanted to spend an additional $ 1 ,500m. It seems to me to be an incredible waste of the time of both this chamber and the other place for the Opposition to continue to criticise the Government for failing to spend money when allegedly the Government has quite openly admitted that it wanted to spend more that it had budgeted for. The reason that the Government is not spending this money is that it has adopted a policy of financial restraint, drawing much praise from the Australian taxpayers. 
Let us turn to the Bill and acknowledge that the Government has honoured its promise to maintain the real value of the roads grants at last year's figure. It has honoured this promise in a very difficult year. In other words, the Government has in fact taken the hard option. It could have taken easier options. It could have argued that the funds were needed for some other purpose or not at all and cut them. This Government has maintained its promise in the face of these difficulties. 
Let us look at Australian roads. The Federal Government has now granted to the States many thousands of millions of dollars for road purposes. What is the current condition of roads in Australia? I quote from an editorial in the  Australian  on 1 3 September this year which states: 
Australian roads are generally appalling. What we call highways would be classified as second-class side roads in many countries- except for the stretches of a few kilometres here and there which have been transformed at great cost and over much time into freeways or expressways. We have accepted the situation philosophically, pointing to our great distances and small resources of finance. 
I agree with that editorial. In particular, the national highways in New South Wales and Queensland are a disgrace. They are narrow, winding, dangerous and poorly surfaced; clearly not enough money has been spent on them. In Victoria, the national highways for example, the Hume Highway- are comparatively so much better as to warrant praise. However, the Hume Highway is still not good enough. Under the current national road program Victoria will spend an estimated $ 19m on the Hume Highway and $7.5m on the Western Highway. They are the declared national highways in Victoria. Whilst I acknowledge that such sums are not small, I point out that, on the cost of construction of the last open stage of the Hume Highway, it is estimate that 26  Vi  miles of national highways will be constructed in Victoria for 1977-78. This is not what could be called a major construction of new highways in that State. Recently a shire engineer in a large shire in Victoria pointed out to me that with the funds available to him he was able to build roads estimated to last about 15 years, but that the road funds that were coming to him would require the roads to last 80 years. In other words, the replacement finance was based on an 80-year term but the roads would not last more than 1 5 years. Clearly the conclusion is that more funds must be found. 
I personally was disappointed that in the recent infrastructure arrangements the States of 
Australia did not take up with the Commonwealth the opportunity of borrowing overseas funds for road purposes. Apparently the Federal Government would have approved such borrowings as being made within the current budgetary restraints. I believe that if the Government were to set up an authority to borrow the funds within Australia, as opposed to borrowing them outside Australia, at a fair rate of interest it might very well be overwhelmed by the funds which the car travelling public of Australia would lend it for this purpose. In a report just to hand the  President  of the Australian Automobile Association states: 
. there is one car for almost every two people in Australia and with persons of driving age the ratio is one to 1.5. Expressed in terms of passenger-kilometres, over 92 per cent of the ground traffic is conveyed by motor cars and station wagons as against six per cent for rail transport and two per cent for public road transport, such as buses. 
Clearly many people in Australia are vitally concerned about the conditions of our roads. No doubt they are complaining daily about those conditions. I recognise that the introduction of a borrowing authority within Australia may have some unwanted budgetary consequences. I appreciate that it would, or might, affect the money flow or that there may be some other difficulty. So, personally, I would prefer to see the moneys borrowed overseas. But from wherever the moneys come, something must be done. 
It seems to me we should recognise that there could be a great future for Australian industry in the road construction field. We desperately need roads in Australia and Asia needs them as much or more. Australia has the expertise in road construction, both in private enterprise and in the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. Currently the Corporation is engaged in road construction projects in eight Asian and Pacific countries, namely, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Burma, Thailand, the Philippines, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea and Western Samoa. I am not suggesting that the roadworks be undertaken by government authorities, State or federal. I adopt the argument of  Mr Gordon  Mathams, the Executive Director of the Australian Federation of Constructional Contractors, published in the Australian of 12 September 1978, that construction should be carried out by contractors. He said: 
. design and the supervision of construction contracts should be carried out by consultant engineers. 
He also said: 
The solution lies in the consistent use of large-scale contracts. 
He said that at present much of the money which is committed to road construction is 'spent on employing day labour gangs '. He went on to say: 
The contracting industry has plant and experience and we know of no better way to get full value for every construction dollar than to call competitive tenders for all work. 
If we could encourage the road construction industry in Australia I see a great future for it and what will flow from it. For example, I see a great future in the production of heavy road making equipment. It may be that new methods could be devised and a whole new equipment manufacturing industry developed. Such industries need encouragement. I challenge the Departments of Productivity and Transport to take this up with the States, to provide the finance to see whether this industry could be encouraged so that Australia becomes known as the expert road construction centre of the Pacific. 
Clearly, what is needed to develop such an industry is a commitment to a massive injection of funds over a period of years so that road construction companies are able to win long term contracts which will give them security to purchase new equipment and to develop their expertise. Clearly, within the current financial difficulties a program such as I suggest could be developed only outside the annual Budget. I am suggesting capital works of a massive nature and I cannot see how funds of the nature I envisage could be found out of our annual revenue. Some different scheme must be devised. 
The States failed to pick up the opportunity to borrow overseas the amounts of capital necessary to implement such a program during the recent infrastructure arrangements and it may be that in due course they will regret missing that opportunity. A scheme such as the infrastructure scheme should now be devised. It may be that finance could be provided by a system of tollways. Certainly that system could be developed in the more populous States but I recognise the difficulties in other States. I am not suggesting any one solution but a system of tollways is one that could be considered. I urge that, as a matter of the utmost importance, the Government take up with the States the possibilities of this program and devise with them a scheme to obtain the funds necessary to build the roads. Certainly there should be a commitment by the time of the next infrastructure arrangements. Clearly, what is needed is a national road building program, and now is the time for such a program. 
-The Senate is debating the following matter of public importance put forward by  Senator Ryan: 
The Government's discriminatory actions towards the unemployed, particularly the young unemployed, in a period of worsening employment opportunities. 
As the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has pointed out, in many ways this Government is in fact discriminating in a positive and not a negative manner in favour of the unemployed. Nevertheless,  Senator Ryan  put forward the Government's actions as negative actions. She painted a somewhat pitiful story of the many difficulties of the unemployed and I certainly do not disagree with what she said in this respect. As a matter of fact, in my speech on the Budget I said: 
Clearly, many people are genuinely seeking employment. They need to be treated fairly by the community, not subjected to criticism or called dole bludgers. They need proper facilities and help to ensure that the psychological and sociological costs of unemployment are minimised. , 
Of course,  Senator Ryan  did not offer any real solution to the problem. Instead, she put forward the one solution that the Opposition offers to all problems- that is, that the Government should spend, spend, spend. The solution put forward by  Senator Ryan  was that the unemployed should be paid more and they should be paid sooner. In other words she says that the Government should spend more money. The only other proposition which she put forward was that the economy should be stimulated. Apparently we do not have to worry about inflation and economic restraint; we simply hop in and spend, spend, spend. 

 Senator Grimes told us that unemployment was a very serious problem. He acknowledged that the Government recognises that the problem is serious by referring to the speech of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, the Honourable Tony Street, in which the Minister painted the picture very clearly. Having told us that it was a very serious problem  Senator Grimes  then produced a series of figures to prove this point. I do not know where that took us but certainly he offered us no solution. The Opposition again has failed to produce any policies for the solution of this problem although I acknowledge that, in my view anyway,  Senator Robertson  put forward a thoughtful and constructive contribution to the debate. He acknowledged that  Senator Ryan  and  Senator Grimes  had made no constructive suggestions when he said that he would make some constructive suggestions, and I think that he did. If the honourable senator would like to give me details of his suggestions I will make sure that they are placed before the Minister for Employment and 
Industrial Relations. I have no doubt that the Government is prepared to look at any proposition which will help the unemployed. 
One of the problems is that the Opposition fails to recognise some of the facts about unemployment. For example, it does not recognise that unemployed youth around the world make up about 40 per cent of the total unemployed. I have here an extract from an article about juvenile unemployment. 
The article does not come from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development; it is from the South Australian university with which Professor Keith Hancock is associated. The article states:   a remarkably similar pattern has emerged around the advanced countries that about 40 per cent of total unemployment is made up of young people under the age of 21. 
The article further states: 
. although we are alarmed now by the absolute size of juvenile unemployment, the problem actually began in the early 1960s. Census data and CES statistics show clearly that the share of total unemployment represented by youth unemployment increased sharply between 1961 and 1966 and has remained virtually unchanged ever since. 
The article pointed out that by 1966, 38.2 per cent of all people unemployed were under the age of 2 1 and that the number has remained in the vicinity of 40 per cent ever since. The Opposition fails to recognise that particular circumstance when it talks about youth unemployment. 
One wonders whether Opposition members have in mind the Regional Employment Development scheme when they talk about creating jobs. At present we are talking about 320,000 unemployed people in Australia. At one stage the RED scheme, which has cost the country $ 1 83m, employed a maximum of 32,000 people at an average cost of $200 per person per week. In 1975-76 proposed expenditure on the scheme reached the magnificent sum of $450m. This was the amount that the Labor Government intended to spend on the RED scheme. However, it then realised that the scheme just was not achieving value for money and on 10 September 1975 it cut out the scheme except for the completion of the then current projects. Therefore, when the Opposition talks about creating jobs one wonders how it proposes that it should be done. The Government's policy has been to adopt the economic strategy of attacking inflation and endeavouring to overcome the problem of the real wage overhang. What has been the 
Opposition's policy in relation to inflation? I listened very carefully to what  Senator Ryan  had to say in this debate and her only comment about this problem was that jobs are not there simply because the Government is not stimulating the economy to create jobs. Therefore the Opposition's proposal is that jobs should be created by stimulating the economy. 
This Government was returned to office only 10 months ago with a massive majority because it put forward a policy of economic restraint. We do not hear anything from the Opposition about restraint. All we hear is spend, spend, spend. I point out that as a result of the Government's action the consumer price index for the September to September year rose by only 7.9 per cent and that this is the smallest September to September rise since 1972. In the September quarter the CPI rose by only 1.9 per cent, so clearly the Government's actions are resulting in a downturn in inflation and this is the way in which the unemployment problem will be overcome. However, the Senate must recognise that as the community begins to create jobs the number of unemployed may not necessarily fall. One has only to look at the American experience of last year. The figures reveal that last year 4 million new jobs were created in that country, yet unemployment fell by only 1.5 million. Clearly, what happened was .hat, as new jobs were created, people who were not then seeking employment entered the labour market and took many of those jobs. So the Senate must realise that for the next four or five years unemployment in Australia may remain quite high. Even if the Government's anti-inflation policies are very successful, we cannot necessarily believe that unemployment figures will fall. 
What is needed, of course, is assistance to those who are unemployed. This is where the Government is acting, and acting very properly. This year it has assisted the Commonwealth Employment Service to develop a manpower program and, in the nine months to September 1978, 38 1,000 people were placed in jobs as a result. Of that number, 175,647 were young people. I point out that the 1978-79 Budget provides for increased expenditure by the CES. We know that the Government has adopted policies which, as  Senator Robertson  quite rightly pointed out, are designed to train people for jobs when they become available.  Senator Robertson  has suggested that no jobs are available but they become available every week. The fact that the CES in the nine months to September 1978 was able to find employment for 381,000 demonstrates beyond doubt that jobs are being created in the community. 
When one examines economic factors one finds that in the September quarter retail sales and new car registrations rose. In the same quarter private dwelling approvals and lending for housing also increased. In October exports were higher than they were in September. We know that at long last, and not before time, the rural community is about to have a very good year. We all know that that is where prosperity in the country starts. The moment we begin to get money in the rural areas it is spent on large capital items and in other areas and the rural towns become sounder economically. That improvement flows through to the cities. I believe that, as a result of the year that the rural community is about to have, unemployment may be expected to fall substantially throughout Australia. 
There can be no doubt that unemployment is a matter of grave concern to the country. No one denies that it concerns deeply all sides of the Parliament, that solutions must be found; but I believe that the country realises that those solutions are to be found in the economic field by beating inflation and allowing job opportunities to be created by private enterprise, thus reducing the number of unemployed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
1 ) What were the three largest liquid fuel tankers to use Westernport and Port Phillip Bays from October 1977 to September 1978 and what were their approximate cargo capacities. 
What is the estimated average number of tankers which visited each of these ports in each month from October 1977 to September 1978. 
What facilities are available in Westernport and Port Phillip Bays to contain or disperse a major oil spillage such as would result from a collision, or the stranding or shipwreck, of one of the large tankers which regularly use these ports. 
Is any new technology being developed which would facilitate containment or dispersal of oil spills, thus minimising the likely ecological damage of such spills in either Port Phillip or Westernport Bays; if so, when is the technology likely to become available. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
How many ex-servicemen with an acceptance for chronic bronchitis as a sole disability do not receive a war pension, but treatment only. 
What is: (a) the average; and (b) the minimum, rate of war pension granted when payments are applied. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. It is about the problems of the Victorian country fuel agent,  Mr Leo  Gorman, and his difficulty with his own union colleagues in collecting fuel from the depot at Spotswood. Is the Minister aware that this man was called to the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission headquarters in Melbourne to attend a 9-hour compulsory conference and that towards the end of the conference he was told by the  President  of the Commission that, although it was not intended as a threat, if he carried on with his Federal Court writs against the Transport Workers Union of Australia and its officers, although he had every chance of winning the case, he probably risked a transport union blackban throughout Australia. 
-It being the last day of sitting of the Senate this year, I seek leave to present a petition, signed by 103 citizens, which was not received in time to meet the requirements of Standing Order 176 and to have the text of the petition incorporated in the  Hansard  record. 
Leave granted. 

 The petition read as follow- 


 To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Red Army Choir is a military propaganda unit glorifying the Soviet regime which is still hostile to the democratic way of life. The Red Army is the main instrument in keeping formally free people under subjugation, and its presence enables blatant violations of Human Rights to be perpetrated. The support, therefore, of such instruments of a totalitarian regime can only harm the development of free and liberal thought under it. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the Australian Governments assert its support for the aspirations of subjugated people by denying entry into this country to the Red Army Choir. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
I am sorry; I have not had a chance. I have just received it in the mail today and I have not had a chance to show it to the Leader of the Opposition, but he might have a look at it now. It is about the Red Army Choir visiting Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and it relates to reports that many Australian companies with significant developments in the planning stage are being required by their financiers to use one of a select short list of North American engineerconstructor organisations for their feasibility studies and for their development. Can the Minister say whether or not some financiers in Australia have insisted that Australian companies use North American engineerconstructor organisations for these purposes? Has the reason for this discriminatory practice against Australian engineer-constructor organisations been investigated? If so, what are the reasons for the practice and what steps are being taken to remedy it? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 8 October 1 978: 
Do many tax avoidance schemes involve floating a cheque or cheques for very large sums of 'paper money', perhaps tens of millions of dollars, through a series of bank accounts. 
Do such cheques have cash available to cover them; if not, are the schemes involving the cheques contrary to banking regulations. 
Can the cheques be floated without the consent of the Managers of the Banks involved; if not, are the Banks or their Managers acting contrary to banking regulations. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
1 ) Does the Reserve Bank Act 1 959 require the Reserve Bank Board to exercise its power as to best contribute to the stability of the currency of Australia, the maintenance of full employment in Australia, and the economic prosperity and welfare of the people of Australia. 
Does the Banking Act grant the Reserve Bank power to determine the policy in relation to advances to be followed by trading banks where the Reserve Bank is satisfied that in the public interest it is necessary or expedient to do so. 
Has the Reserve Bank determined any policy, pursuant to its powers and in the public interest, to be followed by the trading banks in advances to 'tax avoiders'; if not, will the Treasurer request the Reserve Bank to so act. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to a report that the term of office of the Secretary to the Department of Defence,  Sir Arthur  Tange, has been extended under section 86 of the Public Service Act for a further 12 months after he reaches the mandatory retiring age of 65 years. Firstly, is there no one in the Public Service able to replace this officer? Secondly, does not his failure to have trained a successor justify some criticism of him? In view of current staff ceilings, does not the Government recognise that it would be better to encourage early retirement from the Public Service rather than delay retirement by this means? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer the Minister to the recently approved project with two Japanese firms by the Federal Government and the governments of Victoria and South Australia which involves 12 Japanese squid jigging vessels operating in waters adjacent to South Australia and Victoria to determine the feasibility of developing a squid fishing industry in the area. Is this feasibility project to last for three years? If not, for how long? Is it anticipated that there will be any squid left in the area after 12 vessels have fished in it for three years? What limitations will be placed on these vessels to ensure that they do not take fish other than squid from the area? In what way will Australian fishermen participate in the project? 
We have just heard a most extraordinary speech from  Senator Coleman.  What  Senator Coleman  tried to tell this Senate at the beginning of her speech was that, because she has not seen a decrease in prices, this Government does not have inflation under control. I tried to explain to  Senator 
Coleman by way of interjection that when we have inflation prices rise. That is what inflation is all about. It is a matter of limiting those rising prices to a moderate rate and keeping inflation under control. If prices were falling we would not have inflation. Surely  Senator Coleman  can understand that. It is not a difficult concept to follow, even for a member of the Labor Party. It is a simple proposition. At one stage during the Labor Party's administration, over a period of 6 months, prices were rising at the rate of 19 per cent per annum. 
-There is not the slightest doubt that this is completely true. For a half yearly period during the Labor Party's administration inflation was running at the rate of 19 per cent. 
-That is right, in 1974.  Senator Coleman  made it perfectly clear that she does not understand what the arguments are about. Then she had the audacity to say at the end of her speech that children in this country are not clothed and are going hungry because their parents are in receipt of pensioner benefits from this Government. Let us look at what the Labor Party did. The maximum rate of benefits given to pensioners in Australia by the Labor Party was granted in the quarter ending 1 2 June 1 97 5 when the standard single rate pension was 23.2 per cent of average weekly earnings. For the quarter ending 9 December 1978, under the present Government the standard single pension benefit was 24. 1 per cent of average weekly earnings. It is perfectly clear that pensioners are receiving more money in real terms under the present Government than they did under the Labor Government. Yet  Senator Coleman  has the audacity to say to the people of Australia that there are children in this country who are hungry and unclothed because their parents are in receipt of pensioner benefits from this Government. What did the Government of  Senator Coleman's  political persuasion do for the people. Inflation ran at a rate of 19 per cent, which absolutely destroyed the savings of so many pensioners in this country. It sent them broke. These people had for many years saved their money and banked it in order to secure their future. Their savings were destroyed by that Government in only three years. Honourable senators opposite should never forget that, because the people of Australia will never forget it. 
It is quite misleading for the Opposition to be talking in this debate about indexation questions apart from inflation levels. During this debate Labor Party senators have been talking so much rot about all this. What is the meaning of indexation? What we are talking about under indexation is applying the consumer price index to pensions. Let there be no doubt that many pensioners do not spend much money- in fact, some of them do not spend any money at all- on a number of items which are included in the consumer price index. For instance, pensioners get free public transport, but that is not taken into account when their pensions are indexed. However, such items are taken into account in the consumer price index. So pensioners gain a benefit to that extent. 
The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has appreciated this position in regard to the consumer price index so far as wage earners are concerned. As honourable senators would well know, frequently the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has not passed on to wage earners the full consumer price index for the particular period under consideration. Under the present Government pensioners are receiving every year the full CPI increase. That is far better than the Labor Government ever did. The Labor Government had the opportunity to take similar measures for three years- let there be no doubt about that- but it did not get around to doing anything. Under the present Government the pensioners in Australia are being given the full CPI increase every year. There is no doubt that they are far in advance of the wage earners of the country because they are receiving full indexation. 
I am not saying that I would not like to see their pensions indexed every six months. Maybe that should be the situation, but we have to achieve a balanced position. When the Ministers put forward their budget bids for the 1978 Budget, the Government was faced with the prospect of having a deficit of $6,000m. So it started to economise. It tried to cut down on government expenditure in as many areas as it possibly could. Ultimately it reduced its expenditure to produce a deficit of $4,500m. That is an enormous deficit. The taxpayers of Australia have to find this money. Opposition senators are always willing to spend money. They never find an opportunity to balance the economy and to come to some reasonable arrangement. When the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  was faced with this situation of suffering a deficit of $4,500m the taxpayers of Australia faced a burden of finding about $ 1 ,600m extra in revenue. We did not do  that by increasing inflation. We did not print the money. The taxpayers were told that this additional tax was to be imposed on them and that they would have to find the extra money to fund these benefits for the people of Australia. Opposition senators want to spend another $80m on the pensioners. They want no mucking around. They just want to spend another $80m on the pensioners of Australia. That would give the pensioners of Australia an advantage which they would be the first to acknowledge they do not need. 
So long as this Government keeps inflation under control the pensioners are quite happy with their pensions being indexed annually. I have spoken to many pensioners and they have confirmed that view to me. So long as the Government of Australia keeps the inflation rate under control there is no need for pensions to be indexed other than annually. All that members of the Opposition have done today is to try to raise a political issue to embarrass a couple of fellows in Tasmania who have a personal belief about a particular matter with which the Government disagrees. When honourable senators opposite were in power none of them had the courage to say anything contrary to their government. I wanted to talk about what we could do in relation to the inflation rate and the - 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, without notice, on 17 October 1978: 

 My question concerns the recent change of government in Sweden. Has the Centre Party in Sweden been thrown out of office by the Social Democrats on a pre-uranium issue? Does this mean there is now in office in Sweden a predominantly Labour government dedicated to making Sweden the world 's most advanced nation in harnessing nuclear fission? Is it a fact that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has not reported any of these events? Can the Minister say whether it is true that the newscasters of the ABC and the producers of the ABC commentary sessions such as 'AM' and ' PM ' have in fact refused to report these events? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, without notice, on 8 November 1978: 
The Minister will be aware of negotiations between the United States Boeing aircraft company and the Government Aircraft Factories and Hawker De Havilland Australia Pty Ltd, Sydney, for the manufacture of the internal wing ribs of the new Boeing 767. Have these negotiations been going on for nearly three months. Is it true that the negotiations now seem to have stalled so that Australia is in danger of losing $60m to $80m in offset manufacturing arrangements and may lose the opportunity to acquire some of the most sophisticated air frame manufacturing equipment in the world. In view of the importance of this offset manufacturing to the future of Australia's aircraft industry and defence production capability for the next decade, what steps is the Government taking to ensure that these offset contracts are not lost to the country. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, is about the thesis allowance paid to post-graduate students in their final year. I understand that it is $300, which is the Government's estimated cost of publishing the thesis. I draw attention to the general allowance made to post-graduate students which I understand is $4,250 and which is in excess of the maximum non-taxable income. On the student allowance the post-graduate student is in fact paying tax on $400 or thereabouts. I draw the Minister's attention to the fact that when the student receives the additional $300 allowance it is clearly taxable. If that is the Government's estimated cost of publishing the thesis then clearly the student is not able to publish the thesis out of the allowance. Assuming that my facts are correct, I ask the Minister Can an arrangement be made to see that the allowance is made non-taxable? Alternatively, can it be increased so that it covers the amount of the tax, or can it be made a tax deduction in the next Budget? 
My question is addressed to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as Leader of the Government in the Senate and also in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Defence. The Leader of the Government will appreciate that, despite increasing sales of wine, most Australians still prefer a glass of beer. I draw attention to the effect on the Victorian hotel industry of the increase in penalties for drunken driving which were introduced by the Victorian Government prior to the Christmas season. I refer to the tragic and all-too-frequent instances of injury or loss of life due to alcohol-linked driving accidents and, perhaps on a slightly less sombre note, to the fitness and fatness of some Australians, including Defence personnel and even some people in ministerial offices. I ask: Will the Government consider pressing Australian brewers to produce a new low alcohol content and low calorie beer as an alternative to present beers? In the interests of physical fitness and public safety, will the Minister for Defence assist in promoting the introduction of such alternative beers into Service canteens and other outlets under his control? 
-So that  Senator Georges  and other honourable senators know what we are talking about, we are dealing with the report from the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations on the use of consultants by the Commonwealth Public Service. It is a very short report. The Committee came to the conclusion that the use of consultants could be of benefit to rather than a burden on the public purse. 
The Public Service has guidelines for the use of consultants by departments. Those guidelines have been tightened considerably in recent years. They have developed to the extent that, in the opinion of the Committee, if implemented, they should prevent the unnecessary expenditure of public funds. Those guidelines apply to all bodies staffed under the Public Service Act. The Committee recommended that statutory bodies which are not staffed under the Public Service 
Act, and which therefore are not required to seek Public Service Board approval for the engagement of consultants, should use the guidelines as a useful model. To assist all the bodies in the use of those guidelines, the guidelines are set out in one of the appendices to the Committee report. 
There has been a drop in the number of consultants employed in the Public Service in recent years. That is set out in appendix 6. Simply stated, in the period from the introduction of the current procedures on 18 September 1974 to December 1975, a total of 587 management and other consultants were used; whereas for the 6-month period of January to June 1977 only 68 were used. However, as I have said, the Committee took the opportunity of setting out all of the guidelines in its report thus making them readily accessible to those bodies that may need to refer to them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Science, is about that bug- I think it is called the spotted alfalfa aphid- which has been destroying lucerne pastures in eastern Australia 
-It is in the Northern Territory, too. As I understand it, the season in southeastern Australia, anyway, has been such that the bug seems to have gone underground, or it has gone somewhere, because it is not destroying the lucerne as much as it was. However, many people in that area believe that it will come back in a devastating way as soon as the season turns a little sour. Can the Minister say whether his Department has made any progress in regard to the bug-destroying facilities that were proposed, including the breeding of some other bug which might eat this bug? 
My question, directed to the Leader of the Government in his own capacity and in his capacity as representing the Minister for Defence is about the storage and preservation of machine tools and jigs at the Australian Government's engine works at Port Melbourne. I appreciate that it is sometimes more economic to purchase equipment overseas to the detriment of some Australian industries thought to be of value for defence purposes, for example, diesel engines. Does the Minister recall that in answer to a question about the sale of the Australian Government engine works at Port Melbourne the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity explained that the Government's preferred objective is to dispose of the works as a going concern? Has the Defence Industry Committee identified the tools and jigs at this works that may have defence significance? Will the Government ensure that any such tools and jigs not required by the purchasing enterprise are retained for possible future use? As a means of improving the defence production capability, will the Minister give consideration to the establishment of a reserve storage of machine tools and jigs which could be used in time of crises to convert Australian industry rapidly to war production? 
My question also is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport.  Senator Chaney  seems to be getting all the questions today. It refers to the supply of bunker fuel to ships. Has the Minister seen reports that the cost of C grade bunker fuel for ships has risen from $80 a tonne to around $ 1 10 a tonne and that supplies are critical in Singapore and in some other far eastern ports due to the unsettled conditions in Iran? This has resulted in some shipping conferences that are trading with Australia being forced to increase bunker adjustment factors, and in some overseas ports supplying only regular customers. Have shipping conferences that are trading with Australia sought increased freight rates as a result of bunker adjustment factors? Is there any evidence that foreign ships are making increased demands on Australia for bunkers, to take advantage of our assured supplies of fuel and stable prices? If so, will the Minister take steps to ensure that draw-offs are only consistent with normal bunkering practice? 
-The Bill under debate in the Senate at the moment is the Dairy Produce Sales Promotion Amendment Bill 1979. I would sincerely like to thank my colleague from Victoria,  Senator Primmer,  for his praise of my Government's action in relation to the dairy industry. In his final few words, he put quite clearly that five years ago this industry was in a quandry and that now it knows where it is going. That must surely be a complete admission that, under the guidance of the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and this Government, many of the problems of this industry have been solved. 
A brief history of this legislation is as follows. In 1958, the Australian Dairy Corporation was given a charter to promote the sale of dairy produce, which was defined in the relevant Act as butter and cheese and similar products'. But the definition did not include fresh milk. Funds for the purpose of the promotion were derived from a levy. In 1976, under this Government the Act imposing the levy was amended and since that time the Australian Dairy Corporation has undertaken the promotion of domestic sales of market milk. By that I mean milk sold for consumption by humans as fresh milk and also fresh milk products such as cream and yoghurt, in addition to butter, cheese and other prescribed products derived from milk. 
However, the principal Act was not amended to include the definition of market milk. This Bill redefines dairy produce to cover all dairy products, including market milk, prescribed fresh milk products, butter, cheese and other prescribed products derived from milk. In other words, dairy produce has now been redefined to include cow's milk. I am sure that most people will be delighted to know that cow 's milk is dairy produce! In order to validate what has been happening in regard to promotion since 1 August 1976, the new definition will be backdated to that date. 
I have been talking about the Austraiian Dairy Corporation, but in the States there are other dairy authorities which are active in this field; and it is to those authorities, in particular to the Victorian authority, that I wish to turn my mind. Under the guidance of the Victorian Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Ian  Smith, the Victorian Dairy Industry Authority has spent Simon promoting a product known as 'Big M'. The return to the Victorian dairy industry has been a reward of some $20m. In 1978, sales of milk increased by 27 million litres, a 6.84 per cent increase over 1977 sales. Before 1978 only 1.5 per cent of milk sold in Victoria was sold as flavoured milk. 'Big M' sales now account for 8.6 per cent of all milk sold in Victoria. The Victorian Dairy Industry Authority is now negotiating with America, Japan, Canada, France and Scotland to launch Big M' as an international drink. I understand that 'Big M' banana and galliano is usually the drink which the 'birds' like to have and that 'Big M ' iced coffee with rum or brandy is the one that the fellows are drinking. This promotion has been aimed at the 15 to 17-year-olds, and I think that is a marvellous action of which this Senate ought to approve. In recent days we have heard much criticism of the marketing and promotion to 15 to 17-year olds, and indeed to younger persons, of tobacco and alcohol. 
The objective of this marketing exercise was to give the product a personality- 'Big M', not just milk. Some people alleged that the consequence of this promotion would be that so called white milk sales would deteriorate, but in fact in Victoria white milk sales have fallen by less than one per cent. It is believed that the area in which they have fallen is milkshakes and malted milks and other flavoured mixed milk drinks. The kids are apparently now drinking ' Big M ' instead some of those flavoured milk products. 
Just over $30m has been paid out in Victoria to contract holders and there are now only 1,163 contract holders left in Victoria. When the Victorian Dairy Industry Authority was established there were about 6,300 contract holders. Of the 1.2 million litres of milk used daily in Victoria, only 367,537 litres come from contract holders. The rest of the milk supply is spread over all dairy farmers throughout Victoria. Let us look at those figures and appreciate the rewards of a genuine attempt by a sensible authority under the guidance of a Minister who is applying his mind to this subject and the result of that marketing arrangement in comparison with the outright subsidy payments which have gone on in the past. Clearly, Victoria has shown the way. It has decided to pick a section of the community at which to aim- the 15 to 17 year-old kids. It has packaged the product properly, it has created an image and it has used all avenues of the media to promote the product. Surely this must be the guide for future expenditure by government and by authorities in relation not only to milk products but also to other primary produce. 
Further, the Victorians are developing new products. That must also be one of the aims of a decent marketing authority. They have developed a product called 'Skinny Milk'. 'Skinny Milk' was launched on 2 1 February this year and already the sales of this product, which of course is a skimmed milk, are now up by 300 per cent. I am led to believe that there are many more new products on the drawing board. I mentioned that the Victorian Dairy Industry Authority is doing very well in its marketing of this product. I hope that as a consequence of this Act the Australian Dairy Corporation will provide funds to the Victorian Dairy Industry Authority to continue with its marketing arrangements rather than the Australian Dairy Corporation trying to involve itself in Victorian marketing arrangements and perhaps creating some confusion in the minds of the public. In particular I am referring to the use of the trade name 'Big M'. The 'Big M' promotion campaign received praise from my Victorian colleague on the other side of the chamber,  Senator Primmer.  It almost received some praise from  Senator Walsh  but of course, being  Senator Walsh,  the actual words of praise were completely beyond him. 
What a great pity it is that the product known as 'Big M', which has now been accepted in Tasmania, has been tossed away in New South Wales. When New South Wales first decided to follow Victoria's lead, apparently there were some negotiations with the Victorians for the Big M' package, but then the New South Wales 
Dairy Promotion Council decided on its own label, 'MOOVE'. It has produced just the same sort of wrangle between New South Wales and Victoria as that generated over the issue of whether Victorian milk should be sold north of the Murray and whether New South Wales milk should be sold south of the Murray. In fact it has generated just the same sort of nonsense which ended up with Victoria and New South Wales having different railway guages. I would have thought that in the 1970s, looking into the future of an industry so important to Australia as the dairying industry, this sort of parochial nonsense would have been avoided. 'Moove', since its promotion in New South Wales, has a 4 per cent to 8 per cent share of milk sales in that State. I just wonder whether that share would have been greater if the economies of marketing could have been effected as a result of a one-brand advertising campaign for 'Big M'. Surely, with the Australian Dairy Corporation, the Dairy Research Committee and the Australian National Dairy Committee, all under the umbrella of the Department of Primary Industry, it would not be too difficult to obtain some uniformity in the marketing of this product in Australia. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
I  present the following petition from 78 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the provision of payments for abortion through items of the Medical Benefits Schedule is an unacceptable endorsement of abortion which has now reached the levels of a national tragedy with at least 60,000 unborn babies being killed in 1977. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will so amend the Medical Benefits Schedule as to preclude the payment of any benefit for abortion. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question to the Attorney-General is about a  Mr James  Miller Henderson, a former Controller of the Royal Australian Mint in Canberra. I refer to the conviction last month of one David Allan Gee on charges of receiving property stolen from the world famous Dixson collection of rare and valuable coins held by the New South Wales State Library. I ask: Was David Allan Gee an acquaintance of  Mr James  Miller Henderson, a former Controller of the Royal Australian Mint in Canberra? In March 1975 was the said James Miller Henderson committed for trial on charges of having stolen rare coins, some of which were found in the possession of Gee? Having been committed for trial, is it true that the trial of Henderson was postponed and never proceeded with at the direction of a former Commonwealth 
Attorney-General? Can the present AttorneyGeneral say why that action, that is, the action not to proceed with the trial of Henderson, was taken by the Attorney-General in 1975? In view of the conviction of Gee and the evidence given upon the committal for trial of Henderson linking him with Gee, will the Attorney-General say whether the trial of Henderson will now proceed and, if not, why not? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I refer to the disclosure that the number of students proceeding from secondary education to tertiary education has risen from about 10 per cent in 1963 to about 30 per cent in 1 979 and that during the same period the failure rate among first year tertiary students has declined from about 40 per cent to about 1 8 per cent. Does the decline in the failure rate indicate a dramatic increase in ability or a decline in academic standards? Is one of the reasons for this changed situation the excessive competition between the tertiary institutions in an attempt to fill their establishments? Is there such a disparity in enrolments for some subjects and courses that it is clear that some institutions are now offering easy options to students to encourage them to enrol? Can the Minister indicate whether these easy options are likely to lead students into employment-  Senator Grimes-  Come on! Knock it off! 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Representations have been made to me opposing the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill by a  Ms Lindsay  Crundall on behalf of a Melbourne group called the Society for the Protection of the Privacy of the Individual, and today I received some sort of newsletter from that group. Can the Attorney-General tell me whether this is a front organisation of a cult called the Church of Scientology? Is  Ms Crundall  in fact a member of the staff of this so-called church? Has this cult recently been involved in an organised campaign in the United States to harass law enforcement agencies? 
It is always a pleasure to follow  Senator Button  in a debate. He speaks with his tongue in his cheek and a smile on his face so that we know that he does not really mean any of the nasty allegations that he makes and that we can tend to dismiss them. He made allegations about deals and such things. One wonders what might happen if one were to examine the deals which occur on the Labor side of politics in the federal sphere. 
One could name one if one wanted to, but I think one should allow it to lapse for the moment. The subject of the debate is supposed to be the failure of the Victorian Government to exercise proper control in the expenditure of federal funds. The Opposition has talked about the purchase of land in Victoria. In a number of speeches, in particular one clearly prepared for the Leader of the Opposition by some left wing operator of the Labor Party in Victoria, every long bow has been drawn and every allegation that has ever been made has been repeated. Whenever any government buys land on a rising market one can always be sure that later, with hindsight, there will be people who will point out that the purchase should not have been made. 

 - Senator Georges is alleging that these purchases were not made on a rising market. As his party was in government at the time, one would have to say that it was a rising market because land prices were rising every day during the term of office of his party. After all, one must look at what has happened in the other States. Just last week the New South Wales Government announced that it was writing off $3. 8m for its land purchases. The South Australian Labor Government has now acknowledged that it has lost tens of millions of dollars on land purchases in that State. One wonders where the problems in relation to land purchases may end. 
I do not want to push the problem of land purchases in relation to any government because it seems to me that with any of the land purchases, one must look at all the surrounding circumstances and weigh what proper compensation must be paid to a vendor as opposed to what amount would be paid to him on acquisition. Where there are proper vendors- I acknowledge that in Victoria one has some doubt at times as to whether some of the vendors are what I might call proper vendors- who are being deprived of their land for governmental purposes, it seems to me that a very fair attitude must be taken towards them in relation to the compensation which they are to be paid for their land. I repeat that the subject of this debate was supposed to be the failure of the Victorian Government to exercise proper control in the expenditure of federal funds. In fact, right from the word go- right from  Senator Wriedt  's speech- it was made clear that the debate would be about the forthcoming election in Victoria. Every  speaker  from the Opposition side since  Senator Wriedt  spoke has debated the subject of the election coming up in Victoria and not the subject of the matter of urgency. Now I want to say something about the next Victorian election. In November 1978 the dominant left wing faction of the Australian Labor Party in Victoria-  Senator Georges  would know all about them; no doubt many of them are close friends - 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  I will follow the subject of the debate which I have repeated on I think two occasions. I do not recall any Opposition senators repeating it at any stage. The debate is about the expenditure of Federal funds. I draw the attention of the Senate to the action a Victorian Labor Party would take in relation to Federal funds. The Victorian branch of the ALP has adopted the policy of socialisation of industry, production, distribution and exchange and has resolved that this objective, separately stated, should precede any other contemporary analysis of Labor's philosophy. Regardless of what  Mr Wilkes  might say in the forthcoming election campaign and regardless of promises which he and his parliamentary colleagues might make, the people of Victoria will know that if they return  Mr Wilkes  and his colleagues they will give the ALP a mandate to introduce socialism. 
In that event Federal funds will be used for the purpose of socialising labour, industry and exchange in Victoria. That will mean more than the purchase of land by the State Government; it will mean taking over by the Government of complete control of every aspect of business and private affairs in the State. That will become the issue to be faced in this election. Will the people of Victoria give the ALP mandate to carry on in this way?  Mr Wilkes  will not be able to hold them. In three years time, after such a government is returned to office, Victoria will prove to be a very different State from the State it is today. The people of Victoria will remember what happened from 1972 to 1975 and the changes which have taken place in Australia as a result of three years of Labor's being in office. I believe that the Victorian people will not be so foolish as to give the ALP a mandate to socialise their State. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
With respect,  Mr President,  did I not move that the motion be put before the point of order was taken and before a quorum was called? 
Question put: 
-The Senate is discussing the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill 1979 and some associated Bills. Like many other speakers I intend to confine most of my remarks to the major Bill, the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill. I would like to quote from something written by Bertrand Russell in the course of the Reith Lectures for 1948-49 on  Authority and the Individual.  It is a pleasure to be able to quote in a debate such as this from such a civil libertarian as Bertrand Russell. He said: 
The  primary  aims of government, I suggest, should be three: security, justice and conservation. These are things of the utmost importance to happiness, and they are things which only government can bring about. 
I shall come back to Bertrand Russell. Prior to the Second World War the Western world had allowed its defences to lapse. Thirty years later it has been revealed that there were in fact some defences because of the secret gathering of information prior to that war- not action, simply information gathering. These activities were to lead to the development during the war of secret warfare as a weapon. By that I mean not just a gathering of information, although that was important, but actual covert action for a military purpose. It is important to recognise and appreciate the difference between the different activities of information gathering and covert action. The latter was perhaps another of the many evil things which we learned during that war. They include nuclear weapons, which have led to nuclear diplomacy; resistance tactics, which became guidelines for fanatics and terrorists; psychological warfare, leading to disinformation activities; and intelligence agencies involved in covert activities threatening the people and the nations and the principles that those agencies were created to defend. 
Let us consider the problems in guarding our people from the actions of terrorists. We must ever be alert to people who may attack us. Our police must be warned in adequate time of the possibilities of such an attack, and that is the task of ASIO. ASIO must be able to find out about those possibilities before they happen. That is its task and I would have thought that all Australians and in particular all parliamentarians would have agreed on that. Certainly parliamentarians would be the first to complain bitterly and properly if an attack occurred, but apparently not all parliamentarians agree that we should have a body seeking such information for early warning to our police forces. Take for example the comments of my colleague from western Victoria,  Senator Primmer,  who last week told the Senate and the people of Australia: 
I hold the view that an organisation such as ASIO is not required in any democratic society. 
He was not satisfied with writing out ASIO in Australia. He went on to say: 
There may be some degrees of differences between the KGB and ASIO . . . But I suggest that in the totality of the matter there is not a great deal of difference between the organisation under which the Soviet people have been oppressed over the years and an organisation such as ASIO . . . 
He acknowledges that the KGB has oppressed the Soviet people and he applies the same sort of principle to ASIO. I wonder where he can point to some Act of the Soviet Parliament which gives the KGB its charter and sets out the limits of its activities. It seems to me that  Senator Primmer  and a number of other honourable senators on the Opposition side have failed to understand or have even failed to read section 17 of the Act. ASIO has no power to oppress the people in the way the KGB has. Under section 1 7 the powers of ASIO are limited to obtaining, correlating and evaluating of intelligence relevant to security, communicating that information to others and advising Ministers in relation to those activities. If we look at the old legislation we will see that all that happened under it was that the Organisation was established. There were in fact no limitations on what it might do. Now the limitations are set out quite clearly in the Act for all to see. I wonder where the limitations of the KGB are described. Certainly we need ASIO to warn us about the activities of terrorists and spiespeople who would destroy our way of life. 
This Bill is quite remarkable. It lays down a chaner for a security service. I do not know of any other charter in the world for a security service. The legislation lays down fairly and squarely precisely what ASIO can do and it is there for all to see, including members of the Opposition. Clearly, in my view anyway, it is one of the great advances in legislation in this field. It endeavours to carry out the findings of  Mr Justice  Hope. We do know that prior to the introduction of this legislation the Executive introduced some of the requirements of  Mr Justice  Hope which could be put into effect other than by legislation. This legislation rounds off those recommendations. Let us look at some of the things that  Mr Justice  Hope spoke about. We should remember that he is a former  president  of the New South Wales Council for Civil Liberties. He did not denigrate in his report some of the former Directors-General of ASIO and their staff as has been done in this chamber today and previously. Certainly he was critical of what might be called bureaucratic ineptitudes. Certainly he was critical of growth without guidelines, but those problems are not related just to ASIO. I know some large organisations both private enterprise and government which suffer the same problems. It seems to me that some speakers have used quotations from  Mr Justice  Hope's report simply to explain their own emotive viewpoints.  Mr Justice  Hope has recognised 'that a balance between the rights of individual persons and the preservation of the security of Australia as a nation is no simple or easy thing to achieve '. That is contained in his fourth report. He has also rejected the view that some people had expressed to him that espionage is not a significant problem in Australia. He said: 
Australia must not be so naive as to think that it has some exception from clandestine operations or that it need not take steps to protect itself against them. 
He concluded by saying that this was substantiated by 'a large amount of intelligence held by ASIO which cannot be made public'. Surely honourable senators opposite are not suggesting that  Mr Justice  Hope had not read or studied that evidence. In fact he went on to publish 10 selected cases involving 13 people in espionage and the expulsion of 161 people for espionage activities. Surely this is sufficient proof. It is all set out in the fourth report of  Mr Justice  Hope. Honourable senators who want to read more about that may do so. I suggest that some honourable senators opposite should acquaint themselves with these facts. Secrecy and the need to know are the two essential ingredients in effective security. Yet some speakers have argued for extension of the need to know well beyond anything which may be considered even elementarily necessary. They would have ASIO publish a report in Parliament. Why stop there? Why not publish it in the  Times  or some other newspaper? 
During the Second World War the head of British intelligence was  Sir William  Stephenson. In a writing recently published he posed the ultimate question: Will the democracies consent to their own survival? In other words, will we protect ourselves or allow ourselves to be protected; or, in the course of guaranteeing our freedoms, will we destroy ourselves or allow ourselves to be destroyed? He wrote: 
Will the democracies consent to their own survival? We failed to face that critical question prior to 1939. Not one of the democracies honestly confronted the obvious threat to its survival. They would not unite, rearm or consider sacrifices for individual or collective security. There were those that argued the sacrifices were not necessary. 
Of course, we know that prior to 1939 members of the Australian Labor Party were among those who argued strongly along those lines.  Sir William  continued: 
We are rightly repelled by secrecy: 
It is interesting that the head of British intelligence said that we are rightly repelled by secrecy. He continued: 
It is a potential threat to democratic principles and free government, yet we would delude ourselves if we should forget that secrecy was for a time virtually our only defence. It served not only to achieve victory, but also to save lives in that perilous pursuit. 
He continued: 
The weapons of secrecy have no place in an ideal world. But we live in a world of undeclared hostilities in which such weapons are constantly used against us, and could unless countered, leave us again unprepared, this time for an onslaught of magnitude that staggers the imagination. And, while it may seem unnecessary to stress so obvious a point - 
One wonders whether in this Senate today these words should be read over and over again- the weapons of secrecy are rendered ineffective if we remove secrecy. One of the conditions of democracy is freedom of information. It would be infinitely preferable to know how exactly our intelligence agencies function, and why and where, but this information, once made public disarms us. So there is the conundrum: How can we wield the weapons of secrecy without damage to ourselves? How can we preserve secrecy without endangering constitutional law and individual freedom? 
I believe that those words sum up the question. This is the issue which  Mr Justice  Hope faced and which the Attorney-General faced when he drew up this legislation. I know that this is the issue which the Government back bench faced when it applied its collective mind to this legislation. This legislation is a fair and proper balance between the national interest and civil rights. It is a delicate balance. I refer again to what Bertrand Russell said. He was talking about the primary aims of government being security, justice and conservation. He said: 
At the same time, no one of them is absolute; each may, in some circumstances, have to be sacrificed in some degree for the sake of a greater degree of some other good. 
He went on to say: 
To inhabitants of Western countries in the present day, a more interesting kind of security is security against attacks by hostile States. This is more interesting because it has not been secured, and because it becomes more important year by year as methods of warfare develop. This kind of security will only become possible when there is a single world government with a monopoly of all the major weapons of war. I shall not enlarge upon this subject ... I will only say, with all possible emphasis, that unless and until mankind have achieved the security of a single government for the world, everything else of value, of no matter what kind, is precarious, and may at any moment be destroyed by war. 
There has been much ill-informed comment on this legislation, both here and in the media. This is mainly because so many people seem to think that the Government is creating an active body. I say again that this is an information gathering body. 
The dissemination of that information to the proper sources, of course, is a vital factor to which apparently some members of the Opposition take objection. I cannot see how members of the Opposition could possibly be opposed to the dissemination of this information to the Prime Minister of Australia and the Leader of the Opposition. So long as ASIO does not act as a police force- it has no powers of arrest- I cannot see that the criticism which honourable senators opposite make of the Organisation is valid. Those who have studied the methods used by foreign agents might be concerned that the legislation is unnecessarily restrictive. However, the Director-General of Security believes that it will not limit the activities of intelligence gathering beyond what he believes to be fair and reasonable. I accept his assurances and the assurances of the AttorneyGeneral in this regard. The legislation is designed to be bipartisan. It will affect only the extremists on both sides. 
The Opposition has proposed a number of amendments, including a requirement that the Organisation present an annual report to Parliament. I have indicated already that I cannot see any future at all in that proposition. I have referred already to the need for secrecy counterbalancing the need to preserve our freedom. The disclosure of such activities would destroy our security. Any simple information supplied to a foreign agent must be of value to him. I saw the amendment which proposes some judicial audit. I will be interested to hear in the Committee stage what the Opposition proposes in relation to that. I would have thought that if an audit were to be carried out properly the only way would be to audit every act of the Director-General. That would mean that the auditor would follow along, day by day, checking the activities of the Director-General, and we would end up with some form of conjoint management. Everyone appreciates that an auditor should check, and usually does check, every item of money going into and out of an account. That is the way a proper audit is carried out. I take it that the judicial audit which the Opposition proposes would involve a judge, who would conduct the audit, examining in every way the activities of the Director-General. 
What is needed here is trust, not suspicion. We need to appoint directors-general who are fairminded and sound. The people of Australia need to be able to trust their Attorney-General and their Director-General of Security. The fact that the Leader of the Opposition will be consulted in the appointment of any future Director-General of Security will be some aid to this result. I do not say that the appointment inevitably will be the result of such a consultation, but it certainly will be aided by it. One clause of the Opposition's amendment refers to financial accountability. Those of us who checked on this matter have discovered that proper financial accountability has been a fact of life for ASIO since 1 949 when the then Prime Minister,  Mr Chifley,  in consultation with his Treasurer and other Ministers, agreed to an arrangement whereby the expenditure was checked by the Auditor-General except in some sensitive areas where the Director-General was able to certify as to the expenditure. We are unable to devise a better system than that for these particularly sensitive matters. 
One completely new aspect of this legislation, which seems to have struck some emotive response from Opposition senators, is clause 90 which deals with the identification of ASIO officers other than the Director-General. Some honourable senators opposite have proposed that all officers should be identified. In fact, one honourable senator this afternoon obviously endeavoured to do that in some way or other. I do not know whether he was identifying officers of 
ASIO or not but he certainly believed that that was what he was doing. There is not the slightest doubt that the release of such information would endanger these officers and their families and would put ASIO in a situation in which it would be very difficult for it to continue to act. We are talking about identifying officers but we could go further and talk about the identification of agents. No doubt some Opposition senators would want us to identify agents. There would not be the slightest doubt that their lives and the lives of their families would be endangered if in any way it became possible for them to be identified. Public identification of officers of ASIO undoubtedly creates the opportunity for the agents of ASIO to be identified by contact through those officers. Other Opposition amendments will be considered at the Committee stage. Some of them are interesting. I believe that some of them would simply carry on the current activities of the present Director-General. It may very well be that amendments, if they were properly drawn, could be acceptable to the Government. 
This Bill in my view is a model Bill. It defines and limits the activities in which ASIO may engage. In relation to the invasion of civil liberties it requires warrants. It restricts security checks to those who have access to or who need to know the information and to those employed in sensitive areas. There is nothing in this Bill, in my view, which the people of Australia need fear. On the other hand, it will cause concern to those who would attempt to overthrow us and our way of life by revolution. There is not the slightest doubt that it will cause concern to those who would attempt to overthrow us in a violent manner. Unfortunately there are some people in Australia who take the approach that the sooner they can overthrow the Government of Australia as presently constituted- I do not mean as a political party- the better. That is an unfortunate fact of life but one of which we must be aware. Until a better day exists then, clearly, what is needed is information on the activities of these people. Certainly safeguards are needed to prevent the abuse of our ASIO body. 
I do not deny that in other countries intelligence organisations have been used by their officers in a worse than unfortunate manner. Clearly we must prevent such abuse taking place in Australia. I believe that this Bill is a massive step forward in the prevention of any such abuse. As in all enterprises, however, the most important thing will be the character and the wisdom of the people to whom the powers are entrusted. That will be the decisive factor. In the integrity of their guardianship lies the hope of the free people of this country to endure and to prevail. The Bill sets out to achieve those aims. I believe that under the present Director-General the guardianship of the organisation is in good hands and deservedly has the confidence of the people of Australia. I support the Bill. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, refers to the many different types of scholarships, bursaries and awards that are available to young people in Australia from such diverse sources as governments- State and Federal- industries, private schools, trusts, foundations, lodges, the Returned Services League, service clubs and unions. Is the Minister aware of the difficulties which young people experience in finding out what is available? Is the Government prepared to publish a consolidated list of all such awards so that young people can more readily discover what is available for them these days? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment, deals with metric conversion. Has the Minister received representations from heavy engineering, diesel engineering, automotive engineering, electrical engineering and marine engineering companies, manufacturers, building contractors, public accountants, canners and even pineapple farmers all seeking retention of imperial measurements in parallel with metric measurements on the grounds that total conversion is inflationary and, in some cases, ruinously uneconomic? Will the Minister acknowledge that there may be some merit in following the lead of such metric countries as France, Holland, Germany, Italy and Japan where no legal restriction is imposed on the use of imperial measurements or on the importation of imperially measured products? 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-As I have said before, it is always a pleasure to follow  Senator Button  in debates in the Senate. He speaks so very well. He uses such lovely words as assiduity', which so many of us do not really understand. 
Neither can I. We know that with a wry smile and smirk on his face he does not mean all the nasty things he says. We who sit here and see his smile know it is all said in good humour and fun. Unfortunately there was not much substance in his rhetoric, because the substance of what we are supposed to be debating as a matter of urgency is the impending introduction of State income taxes. I am delighted that the Australian Labor Party has brought that subject up in the Senate today. It gives us an opportunity to talk about the possibilities ofthe introduction of State income taxes in Victoria. That is what the debate is all about. As  Senator Wriedt  made clear right from the word go, he was taking this opportunity to exam.ine the political situation in Victoria shortly prior to an election there. 
I do not know about the other States, in particular New South Wales and South Australia, which have Labor Governments, but I do know something about the State of Victoria. There is no doubt that the question of whether income taxes will apply in the State of Victoria in the future will depend upon which Government the people in Victoria return next Saturday. If they return the Hamer Liberal Government there will be no State income taxes.  Mr Hamer  has made that clear throughout the campaign. In fact, he has promised to reduce taxes. Last year he promised to reduce taxes, and in his Budget he cut State taxes by $70m. This year in his policy speech he said:  lt is our firm policy to reduce taxation, and in three successive Budgets we have set out to bring relief. 
In three successive Budgets the Hamer Liberal Government has brought tax relief to the Victorian people and intends to do so in the next budget if returned by the people of Victoria on Saturday.  Mr Hamer  intends to do this by good economic management. I again quote from the speech. He said: 
We will establish a Parliamentary Expenditure Review Committee to ensure maximum economies by departments. 
An expert group under the Public Service Board will investigate staffing and management in each department. 
We will introduce 'Sunset' legislation under which every government agency . . . will have a fixed term . . . 
These are good sound economic policies which will lead the Victorian people into a position where they will be able to afford cuts in taxes in Victoria under a Hamer government. So that there would be no doubt at all  Mr Hamer  today gave an unequivocal promise that under his government there would be no State income tax in Victoria. I do not know whether  Mr Wilkes  has given any such promise, but  Mr Hamer  made it perfectly clear to the people of Victoria where he stands and where the Liberal Party stands in Victoria. 
If we are to look at what might happen under an alternative government it is necessary to list the promises that  Mr Wilkes  has made to the people of Victoria. I intend to refer briefly to those promises, which are quite massive. In the field of education there is a proposal to set up State boards and regional education boards. It is also proposed to employ extra primary school teachers and to establish an ethnic education council. All of these promises have been costed by  Dr Foley,  a very capable economist, at $33m over a period of three years. Promises in the minerals and energy field have been costed at $75m. Promises made in the ethnic affairs area relate to pools of interpreters, country offices and an information resource centre and increased grants. These promises have been costed at $3. 6m.  Mr Deputy President,  although we have costed these promises you will appreciate that  Mr Wilkes  was not able or was not prepared to do so when asked by the media to supply this information. But our economists have been working on these promises. They have costed them and published the results today. As a result all of the people of Victoria will be able to read what the promises are and how much they will cost. 
Labor would increase the staff employed by the Mental Health Authority by some 400 at a cost of $ 1 2m. In transport, Labor intends to eliminate all level crossings at an estimated cost of $4,200m. A reasonable figure over the next three years would be, say, $240m which is about onetwentieth of that total figure. I might add that Labor has also promised to replace all intersections with flyovers. I remind the Senate that there are 40,000 intersections in Melbourne alone. We do not know what this promise would cost and therefore we have not made an estimate. Labor has promised to upgrade arterial roads. However, it has again failed to give us any detail and therefore we are unable to cost that undertaking. It has promised to replace 200 buses a year which will cost $48m and 25 trains which will cost $ 150m. Also it would establish a metropolitan transit authority which would cost $0.6m. 
Labor has made promises in the industrial field including the establishment of a new State industrial commission which would cost $1.5m. It would reduce the licence fee for the sale of low alcohol beers. This promise would cost $15m. We know about the capital works program which has been costed at $400m. I might mention that this program seems to be a case of Peter paying Paul because  Mr Wilkes  would create jobs by taking away the moneys that State authorities intend to spend in their own areas to employ people. He intends to spend $22m on the police force and $ 14m on consumer affairs. Also, he would spend $ 19.5m on rural matters including the establishment of a meat marketing authority. I do not know whether that means he intends to acquire all the meat produced in Victoria. He intends to spend $44m on community welfare services. He wants to double the per capita grant for the family and community services program. It is envisaged that this program will take over from where the Australian family assistance program left off. 

 Mr Wilkes would index State pensions. He would grant concessions in respect of registration and licence fees. He would spend an additional $63m on employment by making grants to employers of $25 a week for each new employee engaged. This is a fascinating promise because if he intends to give $25 to each employer for each new employee, many new employees will be taken on but probably many old employees will be put off.  Mr Wilkes  also intends to spend $63m on housing. This sum includes stamp duty concessions and extra costs for subsidies to cooperative building societies and the establishment of residential tenancy boards. In addition he would spend another $3m on conservation. 
I have listed some of the promises that we have been able to cost. On our calculations these promises total $ 1,209m. They are well in excess of $ 1 ,000m. I emphasise that this sum covers only the promises that we have been able to cost. I would like to mention some of the promises that we have not been able to cost.  Mr Wilkes  has also promised an expansion of the kindergarten system, development of local art centres, provision of clerical staff for schools, replacement of old buildings in the health policy, expansion of day hospitals, new developments in respect of a land commission, and the progressive reduction of public transport fares. We are unable to cost these promises which have been casually slipped out over a period of two years. 
In addition- and I would like the people of Victoria to take into account what happened when the Federal Labor Government was in power during 1972-75-  Mr Wilkes  has promised that there will be 42 new boards and commissions and that 26 inquiries will be established, for the benefit of the legal profession. All of these promises have been made by  Mr Wilkes  and his shadow Ministers. In addition, other people have been making promises all over the place. For example, the Australian Labor Party candidate for Dromana made some casual promises during the course of the election campaign about a coastal management authority and what Labor would do in relation to grants to local councils. The Australian Labor Party candidate for Gisborne made a number of casual promises about keeping open railway lines, and spending money on roads and bus services in his area. One can give example after example of promises made not only by  Mr Wilkes  and his shadow Ministers but also by so many of his candidates as to the sorts of things they would do in Victoria. 
Other promises have been made. For example, the shadow Minister of Labour and Industry promised that under Labor workers' compensation benefits would be doubled. Such a glib promise is very easy to make but if we think about it we realise that someone has to pay for these double benefits. What would be the consequence of honouring such a promise? We already know that employers are overburdened. They are already involved with workers' compensation payments, long service leave payments, payroll tax commitments and the payment of holiday pay plus the 17ยฝ per cent loading. All of these payments have to be made by employers and if they are burdened with double workers' compensation benefits the result will be further unemployment under a Labor government. This is what happened under a Federal Labor government and this will happen if a Victorian Labor government is elected. 
Let there be no doubt that the proposals put forward by  Mr Hamer  over a number of years have led to private enterprise being prepared to spend $3,000m in Victoria. This is the sort of activity which will solve Victoria's unemployment problem, not some crummy promise by a party trying desperately to get into office to spend $400m which it has not got in order to create jobs in the hope of solving our unemployment problem. There is no doubt that if the people of Victoria return a Labor government next Saturday they will be faced with State income tax. If the people of Victoria next Saturday return  Mr Hamer's  Liberal Government there will be no State income taxes. Today  Mr Hamer  has given an unequivocal promise that there will be no State income tax and in fact has promised to reduce other taxes by careful management and by good and sound economic government. Where does the Victorian branch of the Australian Labor Party stand in relation to this matter and its $ 1 , 000m? I have no doubt that the people of Victoria will not be so foolish as to put their affairs in the hands of the socialists. They will return a Liberal government next Saturday. This question is not a matter of urgency at all. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Industrial Relations. Is it true that this morning the Federal Secretary of the Australian Railways Union announced that railway workers in Victoria and South Australia would stop work indefinitely from midnight tonight and that workers in Tasmania would stop work from 4 p.m. today? Have negotiations concerning the claims by members of the Australian Railways Union been under consideration for some weeks? Are they capable of being resolved by arbitration? Is it not a fact that the decision to strike was deliberately deferred until after the Victorian elections last Saturday? Will the Government seek postponement of the national wage case hearing until this blatantly political strike has been abandoned? 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petitionof the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Has the Minister for Education seen a circular from the Australian Teachers Federation in Canberra dated 8 May which purports to be seeking by survey the views of members of Parliament concerning education and the economy? Is not the wording of the short answer survey form which is attached to the letter and which is in the form of an agree-disagree questionnaire transparently subjective and aimed at seeking a response favourable to the political viewpoint espoused by this organisation? Does the Minister agree that this survey form discloses a total lack of standards of objectivity in the people who prepared this circular? If that is so, does the Minister intend to redress this organisation, the Australian Teachers Federation, and those people who belong to it? 
I present the following petition from 60 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems: 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications seen a report this morning that the Sydney Chamber of Commerce has imposed a ban on its employees' making subscriber trunk dialling calls because 'inaccurate billing is costing New South Wales businessmen millions of dollars a year' and that the Chamber has called on Telecom Australia to install checking equipment as a matter of top priority? I ask the Minister: Has the inaccuracy of STD billing been a major cause of dispute between the public and Telecom? Can inaccurate billing occur with the present equipment? Finally, will Telecom proceed with the installation of accurate checking equipment as a matter of urgency? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport a question concerning the decision made last week by the Department of Transport to grant Ipec Aviation permission to fly freight on all interstate routes. 
Is it a fact that the Government has rejected Ipec's request that it be allowed to use its existing fleet of turbo-prop Argosy aircraft and instead has restricted Ipec to the use of DC3 aircraft which are 40 years old, piston-driven and older than most of the pilots who will be flying them? Is it a fact that Ipec will be forced to buy DC3 aircraft in order to comply with this requirement and will Ipec have to set up maintenance facilities for these aircraft? Is it also a fact that these aircraft use expensive Avgas fuel instead of jet type fuel and that they are not compatible with roll-on, roll-off loading? Finally, I ask: On what grounds was this extraordinary and almost incomprehensible decision arrived at? 
I present the following petition from 60 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire: 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It concerns the proposed takeover of the Bank of Adelaide by the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. I ask: Is it not a fact that the ANZ Bank is 40 per cent owned by overseas shareholders? In that event I wonder whether the Government might be prepared to allow the Bank of Adelaide to sell 40 per cent of its shares to an overseas bank instead of being taken over by a bank which is 40 per cent owned by overseas shareholders? I wonder whether the Government would consider this matter and, if it approves of the proposal, whether it would make that known to the directors and shareholders of the Bank of Adelaide which might then enable that bank to retain a degree of independence instead of just joining one of the big conglomerates. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It relates to the reduced air fares to north-west Tasmania.  Senator Chaney  will be aware that on 24 May the Minister for Transport announced his approval for Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia to charge lower air fares from Melbourne to Devonport and Wynyard. The Minister said: 
As Bizjets-- 
That is a Warrnambool based company-  are now operating over an airline route, it would not be appropriate to constrain the two major airlines from competing with the new  Bizjet  service. 
Are Ansett and TAA providing this service at a lower passenger mile rate than that applying to any one of their other routes? Is this competition fair competition, or are the two major airlines subsidising this service out of profit from other routes? Rather than this nonsense of APEX and super-APEX air fares, will the Minister try to persuade these two major airlines to introduce, in addition to their present services, a low charge, no-frills, no reservation, standby only service on all major routes throughout Australia? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport a question concerning the crash of a DC 10 in the United States of America, in which all 27 1 people on board the aircraft were killed. Is the Minister aware that there have been five fatal accidents which have involved DCH) aircraft from a variety of different causes and in which over 600 people have died? Is the Minister aware of reports that the aircraft is patently unsafe, that it has so many defects that it should be withdrawn from service until all of its defects have been rectified and that there has not been even a forced landing of the aircraft in which all passengers have escaped without injury? Is the Minister aware also that at least seven airlines fly the aircraft into Australia? Will the Government consider banning the entry of the aircraft into Australia until such time as its defects have been rectified? 
I  present the following petition from 36 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilise whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire: 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. I can assure the Opposition that it is not a Dorothy Dixer. It is about metric conversion. In the urgent interests of public safety, and so that the whole community may readily understand the purport of special messages, will the Minister ask radio and television broadcasting stations in Australia to use both metric and imperial measurements when broadcasting police messages involving such things as the height of a missing person or an accused person, storm warnings, and other similar emergency messages. Alternatively, will the Minister undertake not to oppose such initiatives on the part of radio and television stations which might adopt them? 

 -Mr Deputy President, why the fury on the part of the Opposition? Why the storm? What is the tremendous row about? It is obvious that it is all a matter of sheer deflation. What happened this morning?  Senator Button  got a message from  Senator Wriedt  's assistant and then asked a deliberate question. He received the right and proper answer from  Senator Webster.  He then stood up and proclaimed loudly to one and all that that was a different answer to the answer which had been given 15 minutes earlier in the House of Representatives. Let us look at the fact that  Senator Button  was able to produce this answer while Question Time was still continuing in the House of Representatives. It was obvious that the Opposition had got the answer it had been striving to get for weeks and weeks. It had got an answer which it believed to be correct. If members of the Opposition had thought about it for a few minutes they would have realised that it could not possibly be correct because if that answer was correct then everything that  Senator Webster  had been saying to them for weeks and weeks must have been untrue. However, it was not only everything that  Senator Webster  had been saying for weeks and weeks but also everything that the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and the Leader of the Government  (Senator Carrick)  had told them on this subject. It must all have been untrue. The Opposition senators believed that  Mr Newman  's answer was the correct answer. 
That was the answer that they had be,en asking for; that is the answer that they wanted. They finally got that answer. We then saw in the Press gallery  Senator Wriedt  's assistant literally bouncing around handing out copies of  Mr Newman's  answer and proclaiming to one and all: 'We have got him; we have got  Senator Webster'.  They had been after  Senator Webster  for months; and here they were, they had him. They were so keen to get  Senator Webster  that they refused to apply their minds to the possibility that there must be something wrong with  Mr Newman's  answer. They never thought for a moment that there possibly could be something wrong with his answer, because that was the answer that they had been seeking for so long. They were full of glee, and bounced around back up to the Press Gallery, again with the 'pinks' of  Senator Button's  question and with  Senator Webster's  answer. We saw  Senator Wriedt  's assistant up there, with a big beam across his face as he bounced around among these journalists, telling them the story that they could publish, that at long last, the Opposition senators had got  Senator Webster. 
Opposition senators were so full of glee that at last they had got  Senator Webster  that there was no thought in their minds of anything else.  Surely  someone on the Opposition benches should have had enough common sense to think to himself: There must be something funny about that answer; otherwise, all of these people are telling lies'. What has happened now? Now, deflation has occurred. Suddenly the matter has been made clear- even clearer thanks to  Senator Watson  who has explained to us the facts about  Mr Newman's  hearing defect. It has been made clear by  Mr Newman, Senator Webster  was correct and the Opposition deflation has occurred. 
It turned out to be a storm in a teacup. I want to answer the interjection by  Senator Gietzelt. Senator Gietzelt  should knowbecause apparently Opposition senators know all of the things that are happening in the House of Representatives, contrary to their statements on the events in October 1975- that there was a matter of public importance being debated in that chamber and that matter of public importance could not be interrupted until 3.15 p.m. There is a fairly simple explanation. It was a matter of public importance brought on by Opposition members of the House of Representatives. That frustrated the making of a statement until 3. 1 5 p.m. The Opposition knew it was to be made at that time. What is it all about? There is storm, fury and all the rest of it, and suddenly  Senator Webster  is off the hook. The Opposition say What has gone wrong? What has happened? We had  Senator Webster  on the hook and he has escaped. Well, there must be a conspiracy'. Of course, the Opposition is always thinking of conspiracies. 'There must be something wrong. What has happened is that there has been a National Party- Liberal Party fight, this and that was happening and  Mr Newman  has been sacrificed for the sake of  Senator Webster.'  Now that is all a lot of nonsense. There is a very simple explanation.  Mr Newman  misunderstood the question. It is not simply a storm in a teacup; it is more like a passing wind in the park.  'Senator Webster  has escaped '. 
All sorts of explanations have been dreamed up, but one can tell by the fury of Opposition senators that it has been a terrible thing. They had him and  Senator Webster  got off the hook. They were saying: 'Maybe we got the earlier 
Press this afternoon. Maybe the early editions of the afternoon paper do not have the corrections in them. Maybe we have got onto  PM  this evening. Maybe all sorts of things have happened and maybe we have done very well '. The simple truth hurts. Let us look at the simple truth. As stated by  Mr Newman,  it is: 
. I find I, misheard the question and my answer is inaccurate . . . The reason why the Capricornia Park has not been declared is that the Government wishes to finalise the question of agreement on extending the powers of the States into the territorial sea with the Queensland Government. This question is now moving towards resolution. 
That is the answer which  Senator Webster, Senator Carrick  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  have given and which has been the subject of debate in this chamber on, I think, four occasions. It has been the subject of question after question. Opposition senators cannot get it into their thick heads that that is the truth. Now that  Senator Webster  is not in trouble, they are most unsatisfied.  Senator Cavanagh  stands up in this chamber and tells the media in the Gallery that there is a rumour that  Senator Webster  has been sacked. Opposition senators will not listen to the denial of that fact by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick).  No; they want to tell the rumour to the media. They do not care whether it is the truth; they are interested only in getting it into the newspapers in order to denigrate  Senator Webster.  That is what all this fury, all this fight, all this nonsense is about- pure and simple deflation because what was supposed to happen went wrong. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. In addition to the purported drug corruption matter currently under investigation, the Attorney-General will be aware that a Melbourne author,  Mr John  Halpin, claimed in a book released last week that he has evidence of involvement of Federal narcotics agents and State police in drug trafficking. I make it clear that I acknowledge the honesty and dedication of the majority of the people involved in combating drug trafficking. I believe that is beyond question. I appreciate that in many cases their occupation places their lives at risk. Nevertheless, does the Government agree that in criminal activities such as this where literally hundreds of thousands of dollars are involved the probabilities are very high that there will be bribery, corruption and blackmail? Will the Government take and adopt expert advice on the steps necessary to limit these probabilities of bribery, corruption and blackmail associated with drugs arising not only with Federal narcotics agents and police but also in surrounding areas, such as judges and their staffs, prosecutors, magistrates, lawyers and their staffs and even the Minister's own Department and his own staff? 
I present the following petition from 65 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal's inquiry into Victorian community radio station 3CR, which has been adjourned for three months to allow talks between the Victorian Jewish Board of Deputies and 3CR to take place. Is it a fact that because of the activities of 3CR those talks have now broken down? Will the Government give consideration in the circumstances to the suspension of the licence of radio station 3CR until such time as it is ready to reopen meaningful negotiations? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. The Minister will agree that it is necessary for field officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service to make frequent visits to employers to learn about the possibilities of job vacancies and the sort of applicant that employers may be seeking. Is the Minister aware of claims by CES officers in Melbourne suburbs that they have difficulty in carrying out their tasks because of limited availability of departmental cars? Is it a fact that officers count themselves lucky if three or more of them in any one office get one Commonwealth car among them for two days a week? To overcome these difficulties, will the Government consider making hire cars available to allow these CES officers to get on with their jobs? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) How many applications were received from each State for the 1 979 intake of Naval Apprentices into the Royal Australian Navy Apprentice Training Establishment. 
How many applicants from each State were accepted, and entered the establishment. 
What was the target for entry members. 
How many, if any, of the intakes were accepted from within the Service. 
) How did the academic standard of applicants compare with the 1977 and 1978 entrants. 
Were there any marked differences in the academic standards of applicants from the various States; if so, what were the differences. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications whether on or about 7 August 1979 the Tobacco Institute of Australia asked Telecom to remove the following recorded telephone message: 
The moment you stop smoking your body begins repairing the damage done, your breathing becomes easier, your heart works more efficiently and you cough less. 
Yes, and 1 have had it written into  Hansard.  Was this message produced by the Victorian College of General Practitioners? 
Having received this request from the Tobacco Institute of Australia, did Telecom then require the Victorian College of General Practitioners to replace the recorded message? If that is so, what objection did Telecom have to the recorded message and why did it require the College to replace it? 
My question is directed to-- 
There will not be, because it will be clear- not like Opposition questions. My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it a fact that some union officials are using their positions as union officials to act as shift brokers to re-roster postal workers at mail exchanges throughout Australia, in particular at Redfern, in return for a financial consideration? 
Are these arrangements being made during the time when these shift brokers are supposed to be working for the Australian Postal Commission? Is this not contrary to their terms of employment? Further, and perhaps even more importantly, if there is a genuine need for postal workers to be able to re-roster their shifts, why does Australia Post not supervise roster changes to ensure that mail workers are not exploited by their so-called colleagues? 
-Just prior to hearing the  President  speak, I was strongly in favour of  Senator Cavanagh  's proposal. What the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  said caused me some concern. Suggestions were made that some future government might decide not to respond to reports or that some future  President  might decide not to report to the Senate. They seemed to me to be matters of such moment that I believed we ought to put this requirement into the Standing Orders. It seemed to me to be a not unreasonable proposition that as a matter of routine the  President  should report from time to time, perhaps at the expiration of six months from the tabling of a report, as to whether there had been a response. I am very strongly opposed to some of the criticisms of the Government that were made by  Senator Mason.  I happen to know, from speaking to some of the Ministers, of the difficulties they have had in responding to reports. After all, from time to time our committees take 1 8 months or so to produce a report; yet we get very cross because the Government is unable to respond to a report within six months. The matters dealt with in the reports are not lacking in substance; they are obviously vital matters. 
In general, I would have supported  Senator Cavanagh  's argument that these matters are of such moment that they ought to be included in the Standing Orders. However, having heard the  President  say that he believes that the adoption of this proposal would be binding on a future  President,  I am prepared to accept that. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, is about a report that the yacht  Anaconda II  will be sailed as the Federal Government's entry in the Parmelia Yacht Race commemorating Western Australia's 150th anniversary. Has the Government purchased or leased this yacht? Is it a fact that the yacht has been refitted by the Royal Australian Navy at a cost of $27,350? Has the Navy spent another $60,000 on sails and other equipment? Will the Government have any continued equity in the yacht after completion of the race? What will happen to the sails and equipment after the race? Will the owner of  Anaconda II,  Mr Josko  Grubic of Adelaide, be on board the yacht during the race? Has the Government assisted any other yachts in the race, in particular the famous  Siska  or have all other owners had to finance participation without any government aid? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Science and the Environment, is about the tragic death of a member of the Australian National Antarctic Research Expedition near Casey in Antarctica on 6 August this year. Are all members of the Australian teams trained in low temperature survival techniques before they leave for Antarctica, and are any changes proposed to be made in the training of, or techniques used by, Australian teams to help avoid any similar tragedy in the future? 
-Can the Minister for Education say whether  Senator Button  or the Australian Labor Party organised for last Friday, 7 September, at the Caulfield Institute of Technology a very well-publicised meeting about this Government's education policy and the Budget? Did  Senator Button,  as the Labor Party's shadow Minister for Education, arrange to be the principal  speaker  at that meeting? Was it arranged for newspapers, the Australian Broadcasting Commission, and commercial television and radio stations to cover the event to ensure national publicity? 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport relates to my concern about one particular aspect of vehicles which have been converted to use liquefied petroleum gas. I understand that they present a particular hazard to emergency services attending accidents because any leak from the cylinder is virtually undetectable and potentially highly explosive. As is usual in these cases, Victoria has led the way by requiring all such vehicles to carry a special identification mark. Will the Minister give consideration to seeking agreement from all the other States for vehicles to carry a similar identification mark? 
-I rise in this debate to support the remarks of my colleague from Victoria,  Senator Missen,  but I hope to do that from a short distance away, the distance being that I am not a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, and I was not a member of that Committee at any time when it considered this matter. I think that as  chairman  of that Committee, and as the only continuing member of it,  Senator Missen  has been too close to the subject to see what really has been achieved. Also, unfortunately he was only today given a copy of the statement of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  That is a most unfortunate state of affairs which will have to be rectified in some way in relation to future matters. Because of those factors he has been unable to see what has been achieved. I think he does his committee and the Government a slight injustice. As to the remarks of my colleague from Tasmania, he does the Government more than an injustice; he does the Senate an injustice because he says the abandonment of $5m of revenue by the Government is not worth anything. Frankly, I would have to say to  Senator Tate  that I would regard his remarks as absolute nonsense. 
Unfortunately, there are areas in Australia where only relatively few people within a community are aware of the problems and injustices which arise as a result of the law. A matter which has been of great concern to me- as a senator from the area of Wannon, and living in country Victoria- is the problem of wandering stock. If a motorist in the middle of the night happens to drive into a beast that is wandering on the roads of Victoria and thereby does himself great damage, personally and perhaps to his motor vehicle, he will then discover a grave injustice in trying to recover some damages for the consequences of his accident. However, again that is an area where the public is unaware of an injustice and only the people who happen to run into a wandering beast and those practitioners who are involved in that area of the law discover the terrible injustice. 
This is another area of the law where there has been an injustice which has existed for over 50 years. In relation to the priority of Crown debts, I am not sure when the Commonwealth Bankruptcy Act came into force. My investigations indicate that there was such an Act in 1 9 1 8 but I do not know whether there was one prior to 1918. That is over 60 years ago, and I have no doubt that within a very few years after that Act came into force the practitioners became aware of the injustice that was involved; of course, those practitioners who practised in State liquidation proceedings would have been aware of the injustices of Crown priority. So we have had these injustices for over half a century. On 21 April 1977- less than  2lA  years ago- this Senate referred the problem to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. On 2 June 1978- a little over 13 months later- that Standing Committee reported to the Senate. Today, on 13 September 1979-15 months later- the Government has reported that it has adopted the main thrust of that report. That means that in only 2'/5&gt; years we have managed to rid ourselves very much of an injustice which has been in existence for over half a century. I say to  Senator Missen,  to his Committee and to this Senate that that is a remarkable achievement. I congratulate the Government. 
There is also that part of the report which deals with pay-as-you-earn deductions, which the Goverment has not agreed to adopt.  Senator Tate  dismissed it out of hand and  Senator Missen  adopted the approach which I will adopt, which is that continuing pressure will be brought to bear on the Government in the hope that in due course it will find its way clear to change the law in relation to the PAYE deductions. One would have to point out that the consequence of the adoption of this report is to shift this burden of revenue loss from various people within the community to the taxpayers of Australia. The Government has to balance its priorities. It is very easy to come into a parliament and talk about cutting revenue and increasing expenditure. The Government hears that sort of nonsense spoken all the time by the Opposition. I have been disappointed to hear it repeated today by my colleague  Senator Tate.  On the other hand, the Government has to balance its revenue and its expenditure, and it has to weigh the various possibilities and probabilities. 
On a particular occasion- such as in 1979- it may very well be that the Government decides that it cannot forgo an additional $5m revenue. The words are that it cannot forgo; but, in effect, honourable senators know that means that it cannot shift to the taxpayers of Australia an additional burden of $5m. There will be many taxpayers in Australia who will congratulate the Government because it has adopted a reasonable approach. In its Budget arrangements this year the Government has adopted a fair, sensible and reasonable approach. I say to the Senate that the Government has adopted a reasonable approach to this report. The Government has said that it will accept the report in principle. I agree with  Senator Missen  and I will support him strongly in the party room and in other areas with my lobbying in an attempt to persuade the Government in due course to adopt the whole of the report. But I suggest to the Senate that we crawl first; let us be satisfied that at this stage we have very much saved from a major injustice the people who are involved in these unfortunate proceedings. This has been the first step down the road. I think it is a great first step and I congratulate the Committee and the Government on adopting the report. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs and concerns an advertisement which appears in today's newspapers and was apparently inserted by the Australia-Rhodesia Association (NSW). The advertisement makes a subjective and, in my view, scurrilous attack on the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs in relation to terrorism. I ask: Does the Department chew its own ideological thistles and ignore the wishes of the Parliament and the people? Also, who is Australia supporting- Fidel Castro and terrorists or stable parliamentary governments? 
I present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition from 58 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members  or  the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we have heard the expressed intentions of one entrepreneur lo bring the Red Army Choir to Australia, and declare, that regardless of its artistic merits or demerits, the Red Army Choir is as much a unit of the Red Army as a division of tanks or artillery. It is but a propaganda unit to glorify the Soviet regime in song and music. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that just as entry into Australian ports is denied to Soviet warships, so too will entry be denied to the Red Army Choir. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that the Australian Postal Commission has managed to produce a Christmas stamp for 1 979 showing the Yugoslavian flag prominently in the centre, notwithstanding that the present Yugoslav Government abolished Christmas festivities in 1945? Is the Minister aware that the Association of Apex Clubs of the World are the only world-wide service clubs which were established in Australia, having been established in Geelong in 1932. Is it a fact that Australia Post has refused a request to produce a stamp for 1982 commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of the foundation of Apex in Geelong, notwithstanding requests made by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to produce such a stamp. When will the Government consider revoking the Act which established Australia Post so that that authority once again can be made responsible to the people of Australia? 
My question, which' is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, refers to this year's Premiers' Conference. If Premier Wran was not one of the Premiers who cried 'robbery' the loudest following the conference, did he not paint the blackest possible picture for his State, New South Wales? Is it- a fact that Premier Wran complained that State taxes would rise, that unemployment would rise as a result of State taxes, that work programs would be slashed and that the hospitals and community health programs would suffer? I ask the Minister whether, in view of the miraculous figures produced by Premier Wran and his Treasurer last night, figures which have been so praised by the Sydney daily Press, boasting of no tax increases for the fourth year and a big Budget welfare boost - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I am sure that  Senator Lewis  will be closing his question now. 
-Will the Minister ask the Treasurer to seek from this magic man information on how he is able to produce these figures, or is there some doubt about the credibility of this Premier? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and is about a table, headed 'Comparison of Ratios of Students in Arts Faculties with Students Undergoing Technical Training', which was contained in the submission of the Technical and Further Education Council to the Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training. The table shows the number of students studying the arts, humanities, economics, commerce and education as 54,149 and the number of people employed in the labour force in those fields as 50,643. So in fact it shows that the number of people employed in those fields was 6 per cent lower than the number of people studying those subjects. On the other hand, the table shows that 98,000 people were studying the electrical trades, motor trades, et cetera, and that the number of people engaged in those trades in the labour force was 614,000. In other words, the number actually studying in those fields was only 15 per cent of the number engaged in those trades. 
I ask the Minister: Has that submission been drawn to his attention? What action has he taken to ensure that these sorts of facts are brought to the attention of all school leavers and that they are not encouraged by the universities to undertake courses which will provide little prospect of employment, simply in order that universities may retain their establishments? 
I present the following petition from 2,445 citizens of Australia, mostly from that very well known city of Warrnambool in western Victoria: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned residents of the Electorate of Wannon respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Government should provide greater assistance and help to those refugees who have been forced to leave their homes in Vietnam, Kampuchea and Laos. 
Your Petitioners most humbly Pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should: 
Provide an immediate increase in the number of IndoChinese refugees to be admitted to Australia for permanent settlement to at least 24,000 per year; 
Provide greater financial aid and assistance to those agencies which are assisting the Indo-Chinese refugees in their temporary camps in South East Asia; 
Bring maximum political and diplomatic pressure to bear upon the governments of Vietnam, Kampuchea and Laos to ensure an end to those policies which are causing the flight of refugees to neighbouring South East Asian countries. 
I hope they will be bipartisan policies. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I preface my question by referring to the petition which I presented earlier today from 2,445 citizens. I understand from my informant that it was gathered by just a handful of people over a period of three or four weeks from a number of Christian people at their churches in the area from which I come. I think that is an indication of the concern that people have for this problem. I ask the Minister: What action has been taken to speed up the resettlement of Indo-Chinese refugees in Australia? What is the Government's attitude to requests for financial aid from those agencies which are assisting the Indo-Chinese refugees in their transit camps? What action is the Government taking to have the governments of Vietnam, Kampuchea and Laos end those policies which are causing the flight of refugees? 
One of the things which bothers me is the distribution of these reports. I suspect that when I get back to my office I will find a copy of the report on my desk. 
I think that is one of the matters that ought to be included for discussion in  Senator Rae's  motion. 
-I buy into this debate on the point raised by  Senator Tate  and  Senator Knight  in relation to the requirement to state the country of the place of birth on passports. I understand that our passports contain provision for naming the town of birth and also provision to name the country in which that town is situate. But I understand also that if one names a township in what is now the country of Yugoslavia, goes to the Yugoslavian Embassy and asks for a visa to get into Yugoslavia one will be required by that Embassy to state the country in which that town is situate. Earlier  Senator Tate  interjected that such a requirement is reprehensible. I agree with him. I ask the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  to have the Government take up this matter with the Yugoslavian Embassy because the Government must recognise that now in Australia a large number of Australian citizens refuse to recognise the current Yugoslavian Government as the Government of their country. They are Australian citizens with Australian rights. I ask simply that the Government take up this matter with the Yugoslavian Embassy as a matter of urgency to try to protect the rights of those Australian citizens. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and refers to the shortage of skilled tradesmen in Australia. The Minister will be aware that it is possible to obtain professional qualifications to become a doctor, lawyer, master mariner or similar professional at any mature age and there are many examples of brilliant mature age students. But to become a qualified tradesmen, in the majority of trades it is necessary to make the decision to take an apprenticeship during one's teenage years. Is the Government taking any action to introduce, in some way, mature age apprenticeship courses, or will the Government consider setting up an alternative to the craft system so that mature age people can obtain trade qualifications, perhaps through the technical and further education colleges? 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to the refusal by Australia Post to issue a stamp commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of Apex in 1981 and ask: Has the threat made in the Senate a fortnight ago to revoke the Act establishing Australia Post if it did not come to heel on this matter brought any response? 
-The Senate is debating the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill 1 979. It appears that the main thrust of the Opposition's objection to this legislation is based, firstly, on some objections taken by  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Staples to the legislation and, secondly, on some alleged objections taken by other members of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Let me deal with the second part first. It seems to me that the Opposition has done what the Press has done today. It has misquoted and taken out of context something said by the  President  of the Commission today. It has tried to draw wrong and wide conclusions about what was said. The summary of  Newsvoice  that was passed around the Senate late this afternoon in relation to this matter contained a news item that  Sir John  Moore intended to discuss the Federal Government's proposed amendment to the country's industrial laws- I emphasise the plural- with the Federal Government. In a later part of the  Newsvoice  summary was the actual quotation from  Sir John  Moore. It appears that he is not to discuss the country's industrial laws at all. Let me read what  Sir John  apparently said. I quote from  Newsvoice: 
An informal discussion took place this afternoon about the consultative provisions of the proposed new legislation. 
It is quite clear that what  Sir John  intends to talk to the Government about is one of the seven amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. This Bill contains seven provisions to amend the Act.  Sir John  intends to talk about one of those provisions. We do not know what he wants to talk to the Government about in relation to the consultative provisions. It may be that he wants to discuss with the Government how they will work. We do not know what it is that he intends to talk to the Government about, but the Opposition has drawn a conclusion quite invalidly - 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 

My question is directed also to the Minister representing the Minister for Industrial Relations. I refer to today's industrial disputes which range from selective bans by merchant service pilots, who are earning over $24,000 a year, to the New South Wales railways strike involving intrastate trains and to total transport strike in Victoria. Can the Minister tell us the approximate cost to the nation of these disastrous strikes? 
-Because of what happened last night my time was so limited that I was not able to finish all the comments that I wanted to make. 
Opposition senators have been speaking all night on this matter. I want publicly to record, before the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill goes through, my objection to the period of six months stipulated in proposed new section 143a. In my view that period is far too long. The Government ought to be able to make up its mind as to what it will do within 35 days of the declaration being made by the Full Bench. I would like my objection to that part of the legislation to be publicly recorded. 
I present the following petition from seven citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the National Women's Advisory Council has not been democratically elected by the women of Australia; That the National Women's Advisory Council is not representative of the women of Australia; That the National Women's Advisory Council is a discriminatory and sexist imposition on Australian women as Australian men do not have a National Men's Advisory Council imposed on them. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the National Women's Advisory Council be abolished to ensure that Australian women have equal opportunity with Australian men of having issues of concern to them considered, debated and voted on by . their Parliamentary representatives without intervention and interference by an unrepresentative 'Advisory Council '. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
1 ) How many: (a) people have appeared before medical committees of inquiry in each State in relation to accounts which they have rendered for medical services or in relation to the manner in which medical services have been given; and (b) cases involving doctors or members of the public making improper claims for payment to medical services, have been referred to the Commonwealth Police, and what has been the time taken to complete investigation of each case. 
) How many cases remain unresolved in each State. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I refer to the annual report from his Department for 1978-79 and in particular to the chapter relating to the Washington representative of his Department. The report says that the Department's London representation was discontinued at the end of 1977. I quote: 
The Department considers, however, that there is still a very great need for senior representation at London and hopes that it will be able to obtain favourable consideration for the re-establishment of that position in the future. 
I ask the Attorney-General: Why was the Department's London representation discontinued at the end of 1977? When does he anticipate that it will be restored? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. I refer to the Government's decision to prevent the Thrifty rent-a-car group from selling or otherwise transferring its franchises to the Avis group. Now that the Government has decided it is not proper for a profit to be made from the sale of an exclusive governmentgranted licence, will the Government consider applying the same principle to importers who do not import goods but make very substantial profits out of the sale of their import licences to those who actually import goods? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 20 September 1979: 
What has been the estimated number of taxpayers who have avoided payment of taxes, in part or as a whole, by the use of one or more of the following schemes of tax avoidance: (a) Curran schemes; (b) disposal of trading stock; (c) dividend stripping operations; (d) schemes designed to postpone tax liability; (e) deductions in certain pre-paid outgoings; and (f) other similar schemes, for each year from 1976-77 to 1978-79. 
What has been the estimated loss of revenue from these tax avoidance schemes for those years. 
I present the following petition from 14 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the National Women's Advisory Council has not been democratically elected by the women of Australia; 
That the National Women's Advisory Council is not representative of the women of Australia; 
That the National Women's Advisory Council is a discriminatory and sexist imposition on Australian women as Australian men do not have a National Men's Advisory Council imposed on them. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the National Women's Advisory Council be abolished to ensure that Australian women have equal opportunity with Australian men of having issues of concern to them considered, debated and voted on by their Parliamentary representatives without intervention and interference by an unrepresentative 'Advisory Council '. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and is about Telecom Australia, which is not only Australia's largest quasi-autonomous national government organisation but also Australia's largest employer. Is Telecom about to enter into an agreement with all 27 unions covering its employees to offset jobs displaced by automation? Is it true that the agreement has been designed to open the way for 'improvement' in pay and conditions of Telecom staff? Does the agreement require ministerial approval of variations in pay and hours of work? If not, can the Minister tell us what protection there will be for both the economy and the Australian public against sweetheart deals? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs. I am sure that the Minister for Home Affairs will be well aware of the Federal Government 's long association with the Victorian metropolitan city of Williamstown through the Federal Government's naval dockyard in that city. I am sure also that  Senator Webster,  as a Victorian senator and Minister, will be aware that last night the Victorian Premier opened the Williamstown historic seaport project. I ask: Is the Federal Government providing any assistance to this project? If not, will the Federal Government consider providing some assistance to it? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Representations have been made to the Prime Minister by Australian citizens of Hungarian origin that the Government of Romania is committing genocide against the three million strong Hungarian minority living in Romania by killing members of that group, by causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of that group and by deliberately inflicting on the group conditions of life calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part. Does the Government of Australia have any evidence of such breaches of human rights by the Government of Romania along these lines? If so, is the Government intending to do anything about it? 
I rise to support the Human Rights Commision Bill 1 979 and the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill 1 979. 1 think that after I do not know how many hours of debate I am the first  speaker  in the Senate to support it, apart from the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack).  Some honourable senators have criticised this Bill for not going far enough. Others- really the only  speaker  has been  Senator Sheil  but I know he represents a number of my colleagues- criticise this Bill for going too far. My colleague  Senator Hamer  spoke very well in favour of not passing the legislation. I do not think he had the same reasons for criticising the legislation as  Senator Sheil.  I think  Senator Hamer  's criticism is that the Bill does not go far enough for him either. I think  Senator Sheil  made an excellent speech in support of his proposition that the legislation ought not be passed and that we would be better off if it were withdrawn. He said that we would be better off if the sunset provision ended tomorrow night. 
To be critical of people who have expressed views along the lines expressed by  Senator Sheil  is easy, but quite frankly- I say this to some of my colleagues on the other side who were interjecting when  Senator Sheil  was speaking- I recognise the sensibility of those who openly admit that if we are to continue with our way of life, with our freedoms, it may be necessary for there to be some legislation in Australia which infringes upon this covenant. I congratulate them for freely admitting that fact. They may be right; they may be wrong. But fortunately, in Australia, they are entitled to hold that view and they are entitled to express it. That is one of our freedoms. I do not believe that their view is unreasonable. I say that also to some of my colleagues on this side of the chamber who have expressed views about what should happen to this Bill, and to all in this chamber who have been critical of this Bill for not going far enough, the 'progressive reformists' in this Parliament. I accept at face value the concern for humanity which they have expressed, but I do not concede that they have a monopoly on human compassion. The best men are not necessarily those who talk about goodness and denounce evil. 
It is not unreasonable to suggest that those who are cautious about change may ultimately contribute more than those whose response is far more dramatic, those whose minds are already made up and those who know they are right. One only has to look dispassionately at the current state of affairs in Iran to know where dramatic moves for reform can lead the people of a country. On the other hand, I ask my more cautious colleagues to recognise the need to protect the people of Australia from the extremes of both the right and the left. Many may like the way we are going in Australia, as expressed by  Senator Sheil.  Parliaments debate the legislation and those debates are open. The people are informed of the matters which members of Parliament consider to be wrong with the legislation. The legislation is exposed and in this way our rights are protected. 
I recognise that there are merits in both sides of the argument. In particular, I recognise the very great merits in the arguments put by my colleagues  Senator Missen  and  Senator Puplick,  and the criticism that this legislation will have no applicability to the States. Of course, if there are infringements on human rights in Australia, the probabilities are that they will be from State legislation. I recognise the limitations in the legislation because there are no enforcement provisions. I also recognise the very serious criticism by  Senator Missen  of the bypass provision of clause 1 1 . I listened very carefully to my colleague  Senator Bonner  in his description of this legislation as a toothless tiger. In particular, I listened to his criticism of the racial legislation and its effect on the  Hon.  Al Grassby. On the other hand, I listened very carefully to what  Senator Sheil  had to say and I openly admit that in many ways he made some good sense to me. I do not know which view is right. I heard  Senator Missen  acknowledge that he did not know in his speech. I think he was the only  speaker  of those who have criticised this Bill for not going far enough to openly admit at one stage that he did not know which view was right. 
I support the Bill. I support it simply because I do not see why the views expressed here by those who say that the Bill does not go far enough or by those who, like  Senator Sheil,  say that the Bill goes too far, ought to have any more merit than the views of the Government which, after many months and perhaps years of consideration, has introduced this legislation in its current form. For all I know, the Attorney-General and the Government may be just as right as any of the speakers from either side of the chamber who have criticised the Bill. As I have said, I do not know which view is right, but I do know that I want to have another look at this legislation. This Commission will develop a life of its own. It will go along the track, taking steps, and after a while we will be able to see whether this legislation should be amended one way or the other or whether the Commission's life should be terminated. I acknowledge that there may be difficulties about the termination of the Commission's life, if that be the case, especially if by then we have ratified this Covenant. Nevertheless, as a legislator, as a member of the Senate, I say that I want to see this legislation again. I would like the opportunity to consider it after I have seen how the Commission progresses. 
I draw the Senate's attention to the fact that the Family Law Bill was supposed to be an advance at the time of its introduction. As a result of what has happened under the Family Law Act, we have all decided that we want to have a second look at that legislation. I say to the Senate that the only way in which the Parliament can ensure that a statutory authority which the Parliament creates can be looked at again is if there is a sunset provision. If there is a provision which requires the Government to bring in legislation to extend the term of the authority which it creates, the Parliament is given an opportunity to take another look at it. For that reason, I have circularised an amendment which I propose to move in the Committee stage of this Bill. I draw the Senate's attention to the substitute amendment which has been distributed tonight and which adds a new clause, clause 36, as my amendment instead of the original amendment which I circularised and which seeks to amend clause 2 of the Bill. It is now my intention, as a result of some advice which has been given to me tonight, to introduce in the Committee stage the substitute amendment. 
For the term of the sunset provision, I have chosen a period of five years. Representations have been made to me by many honourable senators to reduce that term to three years or to extend that term to seven years. I accept the arguments of the Attorney-General that a term of three years would be too short for a Commission to be established, to set itself along the road which it intends to take and to demonstrate to the people of Australia its worth or lack of worth. It would in effect, having been created, spend almost all of its entire time trying no doubt to justify its existence. With a term of five years there is an opportunity for the Commission to take a course, for it to settle down and for the people in the States to observe its effect. 
I hope that many people will change their minds about the Human Rights Commission. Those who are critical of it may see much merit in it. Those who presently do not think that the legislation ought to be amended along the lines suggested by the amendments circulated today may very well think that some of those amendments will be worth while in due course. I hope that at some stage during that term of five years the States will decide to go along with the Attorney-General's representations to them to be a part of this Commission. I recognise that there are difficulties for the Attorney-General and the Government in relation to my proposal because the Bill provides that the officers of the Commission may be appointed for a term of up to seven years, which would make it somewhat difficult if the Commission were to come to an end at the expiration of five years. However, that is a matter which I have no doubt the Government, in its wisdom, will be able to resolve in due course. For those reasons, I shall be moving the amendment circularised in my name. In general, apart from that amendment, I will be supporting the Bill. 
I present the following petition from 1 5 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned residents of the Electorate of Wannon respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Government should provide greater assistance and help to those Refugees who have been forced to leave their homes in Vietnam, Kampuchea and Laos. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should: 
Provide an immediate increase in the number of IndoChinese Refugees to be admitted to Australia for permanent settlement to at least 24,000 per year; 
Provide greater financial aid and assistance to those Agencies which are assisting the Indo-Chinese Refugees in their temporary Camps in South East Asia; 
Bring maximum political and diplomatic pressure to bear upon the Governments of Vietnam, Kampuchea and Laos to ensure an end to those Policies which are causing the flight of Refugees to neighbouring South East Asian Countries. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from eight citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the National Women's Advisory Council has not been democratically elected by the women of Australia; 
That the National Women's Advisory Council is not representative of the women of Australia; 
That the National Women's Advisory Council is a discriminatory and sexist imposition on Australian woman as Australian men do not have a National Men's Advisory Council imposed on them. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the National Women's Advisory Council be abolished to ensure that Australian women have equal opportunity with Australian men of having issues of concern to them considered, debated and voted on by their Parliamentary representatives without intervention and interference by an unrepresentative 'Advisory Council '. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister aware that the British Government commissioned the Managing Director of the firm of Marks and Spencer to report on waste by government in the United Kingdom? Is the 
Prime Minister aware that the Managing Director, in his first report, made four recommendations, including recommendations that Ministers should actively manage the running of their departments and look at their own management costs, that the Cabinet should once a year review the whole administrative cost of central government and that there should be a review of the long-established and previously sacred conventions on the way that Government is managed? Will the Prime Minister examine these recommendations and consider their application to this Government? 
-There is no doubt about  Senator Walsh.  Some honourable senators may say that he speaks straight from the shoulder; I say,  Mr President,  that it is a pity that  Senator Walsh's  speeches do not start slightly higher. He manages to find something bad in everything he sees. It does not matter what it is;  Senator Walsh  will try to denigrate some member of this community or some member of this Government. Somewhere along the line he will be character assassinating people as best he can. I am very pleased that he is the shadow Minister for Primary Industry because the farmers of this country will reject him and his policy whenever the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  decides to have an election. They will not have a bar of this man. I have not the slightest doubt about that. The longer he remains in the portfolio of the shadow Minister for Primary Industry, the more rural seats this Government will win at any election. 

 Senator Walsh- What do you think of Crichton-Browne? 
-I dismiss  Senator Walsh. 
Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware of advertisements proposing the negotiation of a treaty, covenant or convention of peace with Australia's Aboriginal people, which would protect their culture and land rights and detail conditions for the mining of Aboriginal lands, compensation for the loss of traditional lands and damage to traditional life? Does the Minister agree that these proposals are worthy of support if they could be carried out in a manner that does not alienate the Aboriginal people from the remainder of Australia's multicultural society? Can the Minister say whether the Government is prepared to adopt the proposals? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that Vietnam is today a much more significant military power than it was as recently as 1975? Is it also a fact that Vietnam currently has one million men in the regular army, two million men in the militia, 20 armoured or motorised regiments, 35 artillery regiments, 75 other regiments, 495 combat aircraft and 1,000 tanks? Does the Government agree that this growth has been uninterrupted and massive and, for a country in Vietnam's economic shape and with its overwhelming needs for food, is as irresponsible as it is harmful to its neighbours? Is the Government concerned about this? Would the Government consider taking some action in the United Nations with regard to it? 
I  present the following petition from 1 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the National Women's Advisory Council has not been democratically elected by the women of Australia; 
That the National Women's Advisory Council is not representative of the women of Australia; 
That the National Women's Advisory Council is a discriminatory and sexist imposition on Australian women as Australian men do not have a National Men's Advisory Council imposed on them. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the National Women's Advisory Council be abolished to ensure that Australian women have equal opportunity with Australian men of having issues of concern to them considered, debated and voted on by their Parliamentary representative without intervention and interference by an unrepresentative 'Advisory Council '. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question, to the Minister for Science and the Environment, refers to the weed known as Paterson 's curse. I refer to the work that has been carried out by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation over a period of many years to eliminate this noxious weed, and objections last year by the Commercial Apiarists Association which claimed that the weed was an essential source of pollen for building up bee colonies. Has any decision been reached on the use of biological agents to eliminate this weed? What is the decision? If it is in favour of using biological agents, when will those agents be released? 
by leave-I believe that I have been maligned by  Senator Mason  in his speech to this Parliament just a few moments ago. On behalf of the many Government senators who have been in this Parliament every day the Parliament has been sitting during this session and who have sat here from morning till night, without being paired, to do their job on behalf of their States, I say that I believe that we have been very much maligned by  Senator Mason. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. It concerns the ozone layer. Has the Minister seen further reports of concern about the problems of a disintegrating ozone layer? Is this not potentially as disastrous as nuclear warfare? Can the Minister tell us what the latest expert advice is on this problem? Can the Minister inform us whether the world can afford to wait for the experts to end up telling us that it is too late to do anything about it? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General and concerns Commonwealth funding of legal aid. I am sure that the Minister will have seen the report tabled yesterday by the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission. Paragraph 7. 1 says: 
The commitment limit- 
This is of the Federal funds for legal aid- was fixed at $ 12.0m per annum in August 1975. Since then, there has been only one minor increase- to $ 12.6m per annum- in 1977-78. 
I note that, for example, the  Canberra Times  has picked that up this morning as meaning that the Federal Government's funding of the legal aid program increased from only $ 12m to $ 12.6m. I thought that the Attorney-General told us on previous occasions that the Government was spending much more than that limit on legal aid. If this is so, I ask the Minister: What is the correct position currently on legal aid? Has the Minister any figures later than those for 1 978? 
I move: 
Page 1 9, after clause 35, add the following new clause: 
( I ) This Act, unless sooner repealed, shall cease to be in force at the expiration of 5 years after the date of commencement of this Act. 
For the purposes of section 8 of the Act Interpretation Act 1 90 1 , when this Act ceases to be in force by virtue of subsection ( 1 ), it shall thereupon be deemed to have been repealed by an Act other than this Act. ' 
The proposed new clause is called a sunset clause as everyone knows. The word has been used so frequently lately that it has become a bore. It will give the Commission a life of five years. It is called a sunset clause because the intention is not to limit the life of the Commission to only five years. I hope that the public understands that. Its purpose is that if the life of the Commission is to be extended beyond the term of five years it will be necessary for the legislation to be brought back into the Parliament so that this clause can be amended. This means that the Parliament will have an opportunity of re-examining the legislation. Some people have said that this legislation goes too far. Others have said that it does not go far enough. I have admitted quite frankly that I do not know who is right but I prefer to accept the Government's view that this is the step which the Australian Government and the Australian Parliament should take at this stage. I think it is a step in the right direction. It goes a long way in giving to the people of Australia an assurance of their human rights. 
I believe that the new clause which I have proposed has been accepted by the Government. I understand that it has been accepted by all honourable senators so that it will pass unanimously. That would be an historic event. This is the first time that a sunset clause has been introduced in Australian legislation- for this specific purpose. I am very pleased to have moved the amendment. 
