Can the Minister for the Navy inform the House of the approximate cost of repairs to HMAS 'Parramatta' resulting from the collision it had recently with a Manly ferry in Sydney Harbour? How long will the ship be out of commission undergoing repairs? Was there any damage at all to the Manly ferry? 
As this is my first speech in the House of Representatives and the beginning of my first term in this place I desire sincerely to thank the 55,000 electors of the Blaxland electorate in New South Wales for the honour of allowing me to represent them here. I wish also to thank the members of the Australian Labor Party in the Blaxland electorate for the assistance and unselfish help that they gave me throughout the course of the election campaign. 
I feel duty bound to pay tribute to my predecessor, the first Federal member for Blaxland,  Mr Eli  James Harrison who, as honourable members would know, represented the Blaxland electorate from its creation in 1949 and who prior to this was a member of the New South Wales Legislative 
Council for 7 years. He has given a lifetime of service to the Australian Labor movement, in particular to his own union, the Australian Federated Union of Locomotive Enginemen of which he was general  president,  and to the Australian Labor Party. In his 27 years of elective office he has dedicated himself to the betterment of the people of this country. I know that my colleagues in the Labor Party share this view. 
For those who are not familiar with the geographical position of the Blaxland electorate I would mention that it is situated in the western suburbs of Sydney and its business and community centre is Bankstown. The electorate is comprised basically of the homes of working families and covers an area of approximately 20 square miles. Like one or two honourable members who made their maiden speeches in this House last week, I would like to be able to describe my electorate as a scenic district, as something of beauty, but unfortunately I cannot. The suburbs within the Blaxland electorate would serve as some of the best examples of chaotic development that can be seen. Unsealed roads, gutterless streets, filthy sewers and lack of adequate sanitation are reminders of the shortcomings of government generally in this country. The bulk of Australia's population, as honourable members would know, is concentrated in the capital cities and regional towns, yet there is less attention paid to the problems of these areas than there is to rural areas. The finance burden on local government bodies has become so intolerable that it is impossible for these bodies to overcome it without Commonwealth assistance. The Bankstown Municipal Council, whose area is wholly within the Blaxland electorate, currently has a loan debt of $5,610,000 which is growing continually. Payments to State authorities sap a high proportion of income from the Council, leaving the barest amount for necessary works. 
The standard of living that people enjoy varies in accordance with what government services are available to them. Quality roads, recreational facilities, public transport and sewerage are things that become a luxury in areas of the expanding urban sprawl of the capital cities. My electorate is no exception. 
This Government knows that State governments cannot possibly cope with the problems of expanding areas without financial assistance, yet it refuses to recognise the magnitude of the problem. Local government is unable to raise adequate revenue with which to finance its obligations. It is treated in the same offhanded manner by the States as the States complain they are treated by the Commonwealth. The Labor Party takes the view that local government should be recognised as an equal partner in the structure of Australian government. The Leader of the Australian Labor Party has often been criticised for sounding like a municipal mayor or shire  president,  but he believes that Australians cannot enjoy a high standard of living while they have to live in a substandard environment. Only a change of attitude at State and Federal levels of government can remedy the present situation. 
The Commonwealth has a monopoly over direct taxation and many forms of indirect taxation. Through the Australian Loan Council the Commonwealth furnishes the States with funds to meet their obligations. Through the Loan Council the Commonwealth has a final say in deciding what amounts can be allocated for local government and what funds can be raised by local government and semi-government authorities on the loan market. For the most part, in order to raise revenue local government relies on rating, which is the most inequitable form of taxation. 1 say that rating is inequitable because it does not take into account a person's capacity to pay. Take the case of two families living side by side, each paying $100 a year in rates. One family might have an income of $15,000 a year while the other has an income of only $3,000 a year. Clearly this form of taxation is not discriminatory. It does not assess the capacity of each family to pay. At the last elections the people of Australia were awakened to the fact that they should and could expect a higher living standard. The Labor Party is the only party that has concerned itself with our environment and the manner in which we live. Australians should demand that governments pay more attention to their surroundings and ensure that urban areas become better and more satisfying places in which to live. 
The next topic which I propose to discuss is one which I feel poses a real problem for this country. I refer to the problem of prices and wages or, to put it more simply, inflation. We commonly hear the old explanations that are trotted out to explain inflation. The spiralling cost of living is one. The dog chasing its tail is another. The real explanation for the problem of inflation is that prices have outdistanced wages. It is a well known fact that a high proportion of Australian families live at or below the bread line. It is true that we are experiencing full employment but this does not mean that our families are enjoying -a standard of living which the wealth of this country should allow. The real challenge which the Government must face is how to control inflation. There is only one effective answer - control over prices and services. Like other honourable members I am aware that there are constitutional impediments in relation to the control of prices, services and wages but surely if this Parliament is to have the power it should have to guide the destiny of this country it must have separate power over wages and separate power over prices and services. This is the only way to have a regulated economy. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  referred to the report of the Constitutional Review Committee tabled in 1959 when the Menzies Government was in power. That report was promptly forgotten by the Government The document contained various proposals for constitutional change and it dealt with the two that I have mentioned. I believe that the Commonwealth can control prices by setting up  a  statutory prices authority to fix prices for all goods and services used by Australian people. The authority could include representatives of producers and consumers and would be responsible to Parliament. The authority should determine the requirements of an average family. It should inquire into an average family's needs in respect of clothing, food, recreation, entertainment, housing and health. From all this information it should recommend a wage adequate to provide a standard of living determined by the authority. This wage would be set by an Act of Parliament and varied from time to time. If this were done we would really have a true minimum living wage. 
One of our problems is that the basic wage or total wage is a joke. The whole country realises this. If we were to set a wage adequate to provide a proper standard of living we could then set pensions and other forms of remuneration as a stated proportion of that minimum living wage. Honourable members might remember that at the last general election the Labor Party advocated that we should set pensions as a high percentage of average weekly earnings. I suggest that we set them as a proportion of the minimum living wage. This would give pensioners a chance to cope with general price increases. When the decision was given in the metal trades case in 1967 wages were increased by $5.40 a week and later by a further $2. This was virtually a national wage increase. It flowed through every award in the country, including clerical awards, but what did the poor old pensioner get out of all this? Nothing. He had to wait until the 1969 elections for a handout of $1 from the Government. What can you buy these days with $1? 
I know that to members of the Liberal Party prices control is sacrilegious, but in their view it is not sacrilegious to control wages. The only commodity in Australia today which is under universal prices control is labour. Even with increases in wages workers suffer by inflation. By leaving the income tax schedules unchanged for 14 years this Government has inflated the lower and middle incomes and has put workers in these categories into higher tax brackets. This is another by-product of inflation. If we cannot keep wages at reasonable levels and yet maintain adequate purchasing power we will be priced out of every secondary export market in the world. Our national prosperity depends on our taking stock of this situation now. 
The other basic social ill facing Australia - it is a by-product of the situation to which I have been referring - is the problem of workers having two jobs. How many men are working at two jobs? I am not sure whether such statistics are available. How many men are working 60 hours a week? Would we not all agree that the 40 hour week is a joke? The 35 hour week is an even bigger joke. It is bad enough for the working man to be dragged away from his home at night when he should be with his wife and family but it is even worse when he has to send his wife out to work in order to make ends meet. The honourable member for Adelaide referred to the exorbitant cost of housing and to the restrictions placed on young married couples seeking to buy a home. Husbands have been forced to send their wives to work in order to provide the necessaries of life. Young mothers have been forced out of their homes by economic pressure. We must not forget that this Government has been in office for 20 years. It has had the duty and the opportunity to rectify the present situation. Family life is the very basis of our nationhood. In the last couple of years the Government has boasted about the increasing number of women in the work force. Rather than something to be proud of I feel that this is something of which we should be ashamed. The shortsightedness of the Government's policy was borne out by the headlines in this morning's newspapers. The number of unfilled jobs has increased by 6% while the unemployment figure has fallen by 10%. How can we have national growth without people? How can we survive without a population? Is this Government doing anything about child endowment? Is it doing anything to put the working wife back in her home? It is not. It engages in a lot of claptrap. It denigrates the Labor Party for its constructive proposals. 
The Government hopes to be able to offset the present population situation by immigration. It is time we considered the enormous cost of bringing migrants to this country. We must bear in mind this cost when we consider the cost of subsidising Australian families. We could have a system of subsidies paid to families on a sliding scale according to the number of childdren they have. For example, on the birth of a fourth child $1,000 might be deducted from the mortgage on a home; $1,500 on the birth of a fifth child. These figures may sound high but they are not when we compare them with the cost of bringing migrants to this country. After all, the best migrant is the infant Australian. 
I feel obliged to comment on another topic. I have aimed to keep my topics separate so that honourable members may follow my arguments. I refer to the farcical situation that has developed around our electoral processes. At the general election in October of last year the people of this country wanted to change the government, but the system would not allow them to do so. Labor was defeated at the elections simply because of the positions its candidates held on the ballot papers. It is common knowledge that the Liberal-Country Party Government holds office by default because positions on the ballot paper are determined by the system of alphabetical order. The Democratic Labor Party, which has become the second string of the Liberal Party, manipulates this flaw in the electoral system of choosing for marginal seats candidates whose names begin with A or B, thus ensuring that those candidates are first on the ballot paper. The DLP has used this situation to its advantage and to the advantage of the present Government by giving the Government preferential support. 
To illustrate my point I provide the House with certain details. In the 1969 elections 108 seats were contested by DLP candidates, 50 of whom were first on the ballot paper. That is, 46.3% of its candidates were at the top of the ballot paper. Let us go back through past elections. In 1966 the percentage was 41%, in 1963 it was 46%; and in 1961 it was 47%. It is not a new innovation; it has been doing this for quite a time. To further prove that the Government is party to this exercise there are other statistics to verify what I have said. In 1969 there were 40 seats where some or all preferences were distributed. After DLP preferences were distributed the Government won 28 seats and the Labor Party 3. It is even more interesting to refer to seats where first preference leads were reversed by the distribution of preferences. This is where the Labor Party had a first preference lead. Twelve seats were won by the Government after it had reversed our lead with DLP preferences. That situation obtained not only in 1969. 
I am quite certain that many Australians are concerned about this travesty of electoral justice. After all, the rightful election of a government is the most important single step in maintaining a democratic society. I am very disappointed that there were no references in the GovernorGeneral's Speech to this question. But let us not lay all of the blame solely at the door of the DLP. The other party to excel in the field of electoral manipulation is the Australian Country Party. It has a proud history in this field. It has been doing this since 1921. Just to let the whole country know that the Country Party members are dyed in the wool manipulators, they even write it into their national policy under the heading 'Electoral'. I quote it: 
The maintenance of not less than 20% tolerance in assessing electoral quotas to enable the equating of the value of the vote between densely populated electorates and those affected by sparseness of population, area and disabilities of transport and communication. 
What, in fact, this means is that in the Country Party's view country people should have a greater say in the government of this country than city people. Because of that Party's analysis of what the electoral system should be, a vote from a person in the country is worth 1£ times the vote of a person in the city. So far as the Country Party is concerned the concept of 1 vote I value is strictly for the birds. It does not worry about that at all. Of course,I need not inform the House what Party holds the portfolio of Minister for the Interior. The Department of the Interior administers the Electoral Act and arranges redistributions. Naturally the Country Party holds the portfolio and woe betide any Liberal who tries to lake it. Many years ago the Country Party came to the political arena as a young party determined to stand alone, paving its own way and carving its own destiny. But the lure of office was too strong. It could not contain itself. It was not happy to stay on the cross benches where it could be truly effective and where it could genuinely represent country interests, lt gave up this position to become a political reactionary Siamese twin of the Liberal Party. Because of this it has lost its fervour and is now content to plod along with the Liberals. 
Last week the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  referred to the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr McEwen)  as 'Subsidy Jack'. Nothing could be more fitting. The Leader of the Country Party and his followers have extorted concessions from governments over the last 20 years to keep themselves in power. The lifting of the merino ram embargo is a classic example of this. Fortunately rural dwellers are starting to realise now that they have been taken - that they have been sold a pup. Small wheat growers throughout Australia are now on half incomes. How would members of the Country Party in this Parliament like to have their incomes cut in half? This is what has happened to the small wheat growers whose quotas have been cut in half. The Country Party has let the small grower get into this situation. It has never said: 'You cannot move from one commodity into wheat:' The Country Party did not discourage them. The coalition continued to grant taxation concessions for depreciation of wheat growing capital equipment. Yet the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has the audacity to get up and say: 'We warned them.' For 5 years the Country Party knew this position was developing, yet it failed to take any positive steps to save the small wheat grower. The chickens are now coming home to roost and I hope they come home quickly. 1 turn now to the matter of defence, a subject that the Government virtually sidestepped in  His  Excellency's Speech by saying, inter alia: 
A comprehensive statement of . Australia's defence policy will be made to the Parliament in the early days of the session by the Minister for Defence. 
The House knows the content of that document. It is just a play on words re-espousing the much over-worked Liberal Party shibboleths on defence plus an inadequate procurement list. This Government has an appalling defence record. It has failed to defend Australia after holding office for 20 years, yet it has the audacity to charge the Labor Party with irresponsible defence policies. The Labor Party's defence record is solid gold. It has guided this country through 2 world wars. Honourable members might do well to remember that in the Second World War it was the Labor Party that dragged the Liberal Party out of the excesses in which it was indulging then. At that stage it was all Britain and all the Empire. To the Liberal Party it was a terrible thing when John Curtin, Australia's Labor Prime Minister, turned to the Americans to help us get out of the predicament we were in in South East Asia. Now the same Liberal Party has switched to the Americans and is indulging in 
American excesses,' and we cannot get it off that. Members opposite positively will not be and think Australian. 
Let us have a look at the Liberal Party's defence record, and we might start by looking at 1963. During the 1963 election, which was the election after the 1961 election when the Government had a majority of 1, the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, raced in on the contract for the TFX bomber, which is now called the FI 1 1  - and people are familiar with the Fill. We had a subsequent election in 1966, but no Fill aircraft had been delivered. We still had no FI 1 1 aircraft at the time of the 1969 election. In 1970 we still have no FI 1 1 aircraft. Yet in 1963 and 1964 we had a situation in Indonesia which could have threatened the security of Australia. Had that confrontation extended to Papua and New Guinea it is doubtful whether the Americans would have come to our assistance, yet Australia was left undefended by the Liberal Party - by this Government. Let me read an excerpt from the 'Age' of 7th March 1970. The 'Age' is an objective newspaper. The article stated: 
The original decision to buy the swing-wing bomber was made by  Sir Robert  Menzies on the eve of the 1963 elections, lt was a cynical votecatching strategy which paid little heed to Australia's long-term defence needs or to costs. The question is now whether the S207m already paid out by the Australian Government is transferable to another aircraft. Statements in the past by US defence chiefs suggested .this was not the case, and that Australia would have to pay a sizeable penalty if it was to get off the contractual hook. One of  Mr Fraser's  chief tasks will be to determine to what extent this is still the official attitude. 
Australia must never again get itself into the position where it contracts to buy a fearfully expensive war plane, sight unseen, very largely on the claims of its manufacturers; that is all too clear now. Future defence contracts must also specify that where goods are not delivered within a reasonable period of time, or where they fail to meet specified conditions of airworthiness and reliability, the contract is null and void. Such contracts must also offer protection to the buyer against the ever-spiralling costs over which he has no control. The final lesson is that a decision to buy several squadrons of highly expensive planes is not one to be taken lightly or on the eve of an election ...  Sir Robert  bought in haste; Australia is now left to repent at leisure. 
Let us have a look at the cost of the FI 1 1. The money already spent totals $207m. This is money that we have paid on the contract. At Amberley air base the cost of capital works totals $9. 1m and ground support equipment $1 9.32m. The cost of training air crew and ground staff is estimated at $3m. So the total cost to date is approximately $240m. If we pull out completely from the Fill contracts we will be up for approximately $50m. If we can change across and accept the Phantom aircraft, which for years the Liberals have been saying is obsolete and which now should be completely obsolete in their view, then we have lost that money. 
I should like to make a comparison between Australia and Sweden in this regard. I quote from the publication 'Armed Forces Management' of February 1967 in which an article states: 
A cornerstone of the Swedish defence posture is the Swedish Air Force, currently equipped with large numbers of SAAB Draken supersonic fighters. Even before the first production Draken was delivered to the Air Force in the late 1950s, however, work was well under way to determine the next phase in the country's air defence. 
Let us dwell on that point. This was happening in 1950. Sweden was looking 10 years ahead, but this Government decided on a plane in 3 months. This gives an idea of this Government's stupidity. The article continued: 
During this period, all conceivable variations of possible aircraft were studied, including the possibilities of buying aircraft from abroad or manufacturing them under licence in Sweden. 
Aircraft that were looked at closely, either in the hardware form or, where this was not available, in the design study phases, included Britain's now-cancelled TSR2, and the US McDonnel Phantom II and General Dynamics Grumman FI IIA. Eventually, however, it was decided that the best solution would be to design and build at home wherever possible, adopting the simplest design commensurate with the type of high-speed performance required. This resulted in the early 1960s in the specification of what has become known as 'System 37', the name given to a complete weapons system, of which the Mach 2.5 single-seat multi-purpose Viggen aircraft ... is the heart 
That is a 1,750 miles an hour supersonic attack bomber being built in Sweden, which has a population of only 8 million people. It makes the Government look pretty silly. The article continues: 
Furthermore, the design calls not only for a high weapons load, mainly missiles, and a high performance in range and speed, but also lower landing speeds than normally is the case with such aircraft, to enable it to use the dispersed highway bases when necessary, while good accessability for maintenance and rapid checking of functional parts is also being built in. 
Time does not allow me to elaborate on this, but at another time I would like to take up this point of comparing Sweden with Australia in the manufacture of defence equipment and the encouragement of an aircraft industry. 
ls the Prime Minister aware that the United States Federal Communications Commission announced recently that in future in the United States a newspaper will not be able to acquire a radio or television station? The Commission is going a step further by inquiring whether existing multimedia combinations should be broken up within 5 years. To ensure that the instruments of mass media in Australia do not remain in the hands of a few combines will the Prime Minister introduce similar legislation prohibiting a newspaper from acquiring a broadcasting licence and will he further break up existing multi-media combinations in Australia? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Supply. With the Macchi jet manufacturing programme nearing the end of its current order the Australia aircraft industry is in a malaise wondering when another military aviation contract will be awarded to keep the industry functioning. About 8 weeks ago. on 4th March, I asked the Minister for Supply whether the Government had given its consent and backing to a joint project between the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the British Aircraft Corporation for the development and manufacture of a variable geometry dual purpose supersonic attack trainer. I have not as yet received a reply to the question. Can the Minister himself answer the question? If not, will he ask the Minister for Supply to furnish me with an answer? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Supply. Has his attention been drawn to a recent report in the 'Australian' stating that the Government has abandoned the joint British Aircraft Corporation and Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation project for the development and manufacture of a swing-wing supersonic attack trainer known as the AA107? Is the substance of the report in accordance with the facts? Has the Government decided to scrap this project? May I point out to the Minister that this project is the last hope for the Australian aircraft industry to undertake a major military development to save the industry from virtual collapse? 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
What amounts of aid have been given by the Australian Government to Fiji over each of the last three financial years for which figures are available. 
What are the classes of projects upon which this aid has been expended. 
Through  what  organisations or agencies has the aid been channelled. 
Does the Government intend to increase its aid contributions to Fiji having regard lo the likely granting of independence to Fiji later this year; if so, to what extent. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Is the Government still considering a merger between the two major components  of the  Australian aircraft industry - the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government Aircraft Factories. 
If so, will the Minister furnish details of the proposed merger. 
In raising the question of the depressed state of the Australian aircraft industry and the Government's failure to promote the design and construction of Australian aircraft, the Opposition wishes to bring to the people's attention the fact that Australia is forfeiting an important segment of its defence capacity because this Liberal-Country Party Government, and its predecessors, have failed to come to the decision that Australia should have its own aircraft industry, and that that industry should, where possible, equip our armed Services with locally manufactured aircraft. 
The event that reinforced the Labor Party's decision to raise as a matter of public importance the Government's neglect of the aircraft industry were the recent statements by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Supply  (Senator Anderson)  concerning the cancellation of the joint Anglo-Australian project for the development and production of a variable geometry supersonic attack trainer known as the AA107. This decision comes at a time when the aircraft industry is at its lowest ebb for many years. The AA107 project, as a case in point, exemplifies the Government's backward approach when it is faced with a proposition that requires a bold yet measured decision; a decision that, if taken, would have lifted the local aircraft design capacity to perhaps the highest level yet attained. The AA107 would have been the first collaborative military research and development programme that Australia had undertaken with a major overseas aircraft manufacturer. Regardless of Australia's rejection of the project it seems that the British Aircraft Corporation will press on with the project in collaboration with Macchi of Italy. Contrary to what the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Supply say, the AA107 concept would seem to have considerable market potential. 
The Australian Aircraft industry is held in very high regard overseas. France, for instance, from whom we secured the license for the manufacture of the Mirage, is very interested in joining Australia on joint research and development projects, as distinct from licence projects. Recently OFEMA, the French aero-space industry's export organisation, sent a mission to Australia to investigate the possibilities in this direction. With the current Macchi jet trainer manufacturing programme nearing completion, 2 of the 3 main elements of the industry - the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, and Hawker de Havillands will have no appreciable workload as a basis to retain personnel. CAC is supplementing its air frame and engine manufacturing capacity by sub-contract work, service overhauls and spares production. It is also forced to manufacture passenger buses to retain skill. Hawker de Havilland is doing its best to keep its aircraft production capacity alive by servicing military and civil aircraft. It is attempting to supplement this work by hunting for offset and sub-contract work overseas. It also manufactures aluminium pleasure boats as an avenue to retain personnel. The Government Aircraft Factories, the third major component of the industry, were relying heavily on the GAC100 civil airliner project which has now been jeopardised by the withdrawal of the main American contractor, and they now have to fall back on Jindivik and Ikara production plus the minute $3. 5m project N civil light aircraft development. A dire situation exists when defence production establishments like the three I have mentioned are forced to survive on ancilliary work including the production of buses and pleasure boats. In the agricultural aircraft fields we can still remember the Government's rejection of a reasonable bounty for the Transavia Airtruk and, in the light aircraft field, the selling of the Victa Airtourer to New Zealand. I would like to discuss the fallacious fourth arm concept which has been enunciated by the Minister who has also spoken about helicopter production, but it would take too much time to deal with it at this stage. 
I turn now to the selection of the Macchi as the jet trainer for the RAAF. This was a classic example of the malaise that exists at Government level. In 1963 in reply to an 
RAAF requirement for a trainer, the local industry offered the Government an Australian design known as the CA31, an aircraft that by all accounts would have fulfilled the RAAF's requirements and more. A decision was put off until finally at the very last moment the Government said that it was too late to produce a locally manufactured product, and they went overseas and bought the Macchi MB326H trainer. This was the greatest slap in the face the aircraft industry here had had till that point of time, but it was typical of the classic Liberal defence approach of last minute panic buying. There was no argument for the selection of the Macchi on a cost basis. Macchi, as licensor, received cost compensation for the research and development element, the tooling costs, a percentage of the normal profit margin, and the cost equivalent of the increased profit, that Macchi would have earned had it not forfeited the learning curve benefit by allowing the aircraft to be made outside its own factories. To add insult to injury the Government bungled the possible Singapore outlet for the Macchi and thus denied the local aircraft industry a much needed workload. The Government is now desperately trying to sell the plane to New Zealand. 
It is often said that half the problem with local aircraft manufacture is that the RAAF has an inherent dislike of local production. This could be so, but in fairness to the RAAF, it has had a difficult task in trying to assess the roles for its aircraft within the ambit of the Menzies, Holt and Gorton Governments' stop gap defence and foreign policy objectives. The coalition in the past 20 years has been inept in pursuing doubtful foreign policies based on interdependence with a major Western power. With the advent of the Vietnam war and the successive problems in that conflict, it is probable that future American administrations will show a rapidly declining interest in the Asian region. In fact, I think it fair to surmise that in a very short space of time American military activity in that area of the world will be restricted to the comings and goings of the United States' Seventh Fleet and perhaps assorted diplomatic forays into the countries of the region. The reality of this situation is that Australia with its vast area and natural wealth will be the only Western coun try in Asia. In these circumstances, it is imperative that we should develop our own defence capacity. As the lessons of the last World War illustrated so vividly, when the crunch comes a country's capacity to defend itself is inextricably bound with its capacity to manufacture. 
This Government and its predecessors have been criminal in their neglect of Australia's defence industries. Our aircraft industry, our electronics industry, and the other ancillary industries that are so important to a viable defence capacity have been bypassed by the Government. We should take a lesson out of Sweden's book in relation to defence planning and, in particular, aircraft manufacture. Sweden, a country with 8 million people, can afford to develop and manufacture its own relatively sophisticated aircraft because it has one clear defence policy, and that is to defend Sweden against the might of Soviet Russia, to the last Swede if necessary. With this clear defence objective, the Swedish Government and its defence forces, have been able to standardise and minimise the variety of equipment so that it has been possible to produce defence equipment far more cheaply that it could have been procured overseas. Australia's problem is that the Government has never defined a consistent and continuous defence policy, and therefore it has been impossible to standardise defence procurements. The SAAB Corporation, in Sweden, which is regarded by the Swedish Air Force as a commercial extension of itself, manufactures the aircraft requirements for the Swedish Air Force. The system 37, Viggen and Draken are prime examples. 
Australia could have the equivalent of the SAAB Corporation if the major components of the aircraft industry here were merged into one or even two units. The only problem then would be to have the RAAF regard that merged organisation in the same way as the Swedish Air Force regards SAAB. Sweden's defence requirements are sensibly programmed on a 7-year rolling budget basis, adjustable at 12- monthly periods, to allow defence industries and the aircraft industry, in particular, to plan its production on a full workload basis. The industry is therefore able to secure the learning curve benefits and also the benefits of material procurement in mill size quantities. By comparison, the Australian aircraft industry has had to suffer with intermittent workloads and a lack of production continuity, and has had to build up the labour force on 4 separate occasions. Each time this has occurred there has been a progressive reduction in the classes and skill of labour available. 
Some time this year or early next year the Government will have to decide upon a replacement for the RAAFs Mirage aircraft. This may be a single multi-role aircraft, or attack and intercept aircraft in 2 separate versions. Whichever it is I sincerely hope that the Australian aircraft industry is commissioned to design and manufacture it either singly or in collaboration with an overseas aircraft manufacturer. The Mirage replacement will be the acid test for the Government to prove once and for all its bona fides as far as the local aircraft industry is concerned. This matter of public importance that the Opposition has moved here today is not just a question of the Labor Party scoring points off the Government because of its neglect of our aircraft industry; but it is a matter of national importance, and national insurance that we awaken the Government to its inadequacy in this area. The Government must make the decision that Australia is to have an aircraft industry, and to have it the industry must have a constant workload. The manufacture of aircraft for the armed services alone would provide this. While the life of the industry trickles away, as it is doing at this very moment, Australia is paying out massive amounts in foreign exchange to buy imported aircraft. 
If Australia is to acquire independence in the field of aviation it must have its own aircraft industry. In this respect I hope the exercise that the Opposition has undertaken today in this Parliament will be of benefit to the nation. 
On behalf of the Austral an Labor Party, I move: 
Omit the clause. 
The Australian Labor Party believes that the functions of the consultative committee, which is the subject of clause 16 of the Bill, could be fulfilled by the Director of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. Perhaps I should quote clause 16 for the benefit of those people who are sufficiently interested to read Hansard. Clause 16 states:  (1.) For the purposes of this Act, there shall be a Consultative Committee, consisting of six mein bers, namely: 
four members appointed in relation to engineering works in Australia and elsewhere, of whom two shall be representative of the engineering profession; and 
two members appointed in relation to engineering works outside Australia (2.) A member of the Consultative Committee - 
shall be appointed by the Minister; and 
holds office on such terms and conditions as the Minister determines. (3.)  The  manner in which the Consultative Committee shall conduct its business (including the manner in which it is to reach decisions) shall be as determined by the Minister in writing. (4.) The Minister may request the Consultative Committee lo advise  him  whether a function of the Corporation under the next succeeding section should be exercised by the Corporation in respect of a particular engineering work and, if so, how that function should be exercised bv the Corporation in respect of that work, and the Committee shall advise, the Minister accordingly. (5.) Where a member of the Committee disagrees with the advice that the Committee proposes to furnish to the Minister on a matter, that member may furnish his separate advice to the Minister on that matter.  lt is quite clear that clause 16 has been included in the Bill to hamstring the Corporation and to protect the consultative engineering firms in Australia. This ties in with the vague notions which the Liberal Party of Australia has about protecting private enterprise. Because of its notions on private enterprise, which are supposedly the base of its ideological outlook, the Liberal Party seeks to hamstring this Corporation. One has only to look at the history of statutory corporations in Australia to appreciate my argument. Trans Australia Airlines and Qantas Airways Ltd are 2 examples. A better example is the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. This organisation was offered to private enterprise in the mid-1950s, but it was rejected. Finally, the Government set up a statutory corporation. It has operated so efficiently and made such a colossal profit that premiums have been reduced to such a point that it would be probably the cheapest form of insurance. This organisation operates to insure exports against non-payment. 
The Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation should be free to operate anywhere in the Commonwealth as a statutory corporation. Clause 16 has been included in the Bill because the Liberal Party is afraid that the Corporation will operate too efficiently and too competitively for private enterprise. Why should it not be able to operate in competition with private enterprise? I refer to clause 24 of the Bill, which states: 
In the exercise of its functions the Corporation shall pursue a policy directed towards securing, in each financial year, revenue sufficient - 
to meet the expenditure of the Corporation properly chargeable to revenue of thai year; 
to enable the Corporation to make provision for income lax; and 
to permit the paymentto the Commonwealth of a reasonable return on the capital of the Corporation. 
In other words, the Corporation must meet its own costs, must pay income tax and must make a reasonable profit. If the Corporation is to operate commercially at a profit why should it be hamstrung by a provision that it can take on only those jobs which the consultative committee recommends to the Minister it should do. Honourable members may have noticed that clause 16 of the Bill provides that 2 members of the consultative committee shall be representatives of the engineering profession. The clause does not state that the consultative committee must consist of 2 members who are professional engineers; it states that it must consist of 2 members who are representatives of the engineering profession. So that a representative of a consultative firm which is in competition with the Corporation may be sitting on the consultative committee and he may say to the Minister: Do not let the Snowy Mountains Corporation come in on this one'. This is an iniquitous proposition. This clause should not be included in the Bill. 
Another requirement is that the other members of the consultative committee shall be public servants. I have never known a public servant who has been able to make a quid in his life. I would not like to see members of the Commonwealth Public Service in this organisation because its object is to make a profit. If this corporation is to make a profit it has to operate along commercial lines. The Director of the Corporation should be given complete discretion over the way in which the organisation is run. He should not have to seek the opinion of a committee which consists of representatives of private enterprises which refers propositions to the Minister. If the consultative committee holds up its deliberations on the merit of a proposition and the Minister holds up any decision the Snowy Mountains Corporation could miss out on aquiring the consulting job which it wishes to apply for because of the time factor involved. 
I do not think I need to say very much more about this amendment because it is self-explanatory. This provision in relation to a consultative committee is included in the Bill so that the committee can be made to operate as an agent of private enterprise in the engineering consultative field in Australia. This ties in with the general Liberal approach to statutory corporations because the Liberal Party believes that this statutory corporation once set up will operate far more efficiently under a Labor Party administration. If the Corporation is to operate as a commercial undertaking as the Government intends, the Government must be consistent and at least allow the Director of the Corporation the right to direct its affairs in the way he sees fit. The Government should agree to the deletion of this stupid clause relating to the consultative committee. I ask the Committee to support the amendment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Has the Government given its consent and backing to a joint project between the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the British Aircraft Corporation for the development and manufacture of a variable geometry dual-purpose supersonic attack/trainer. 
If so, can the Minister nominate a commencement date for the project. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
What performance requirements have been laid down by the Royal Australian Air Force for the aircraft to replace the current Mirage fighters. 
ls the RAAF considering a dual role intercept and attack aircraft for the Mirage replacement or 2 separate single role aircraft, 1 with an intercept capacity and 1 with an attack capacity. 
When does the RAAF intend to phase out the current Mirage fighters. 
Will the RAAF seek to have the replacement aircraft designed and manufactured in Australia or, alternatively, seek to have the aircraft designed and manufactured on a collaborative basis between the Australian aircraft industry and an acceptable overseas aircraft manufacturing corporation. 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
Will he make available the papers submitted to the Menzies Government in 1963 by his Department and the other Service Departments outlining the reasons and recommendations for the acceptance of the General Dynamics TFX fighter- bomber concept for the R.A.A.F., including the reasons why the other aircraft types then under consideration were rejected. 
I address a question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is it a fact that a serious deficiency exists in the area of export finance for high value transactions and that the terms and rates of interest normally available through commercial organisations in Australia disadvantage our exporters when they are competing against exporters in other countries who enjoy the benefits of government export credit bank finance at comparatively low interest rates over extended periods of time? Will the Government set up an export credit facility to provide finance at better than commercial terms to assist the export sales of Australian manufactured military equipment and other high value commercial exports? 
I am leading in this debate in the absence of the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  who cannot be here this afternoon. The Bill is designed to cover up some of the mistakes made in the past by the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  and his adviser, the Broadcasting Control Board and to justify their actions in the future. Under the existing Act the onus is on the Postmaster-General to see that television and broadcasting licences in Australia are issued in accordance with the public interest, convenience, and necessity, in strict compliance with the terms of the Act. When it comes to the transfer of licences, or alteration of their conditions, the onus is entirely upon his shoulders. We understand, of course, that he is guided by the advice he receives from his experts on the Broadcasting Control 
Board. This Bill deals with the qualifications of licensees of stations. I do not know whether the Minister has noted that the House of Representatives in the United States passed the Independent Media Preservation Bill which is designed to prevent a metropolitan newspaper holding a licence for a television or broadcasting station in the same area. The United States Federal Communications Commission applied the same principle recently when it cancelled the licence of WHDHTV, Boston, because it was held by the Boston 'Traveller-Examiner', and was held to create a monopoly in the news media in the area. The licence was then re-issued to a group of local interests. Similar action is proposed in connection with the licence of WPIX, New York, which is owned by the New York 'Daily News' and similar action is also foreshadowed against the broadcasting station owned by the New York 'Times*. 
The United States Justice Department is reported to be currently examining the joint ownership of newspapers, television and broadcasting stations to see whether the Anti-Monopoly Act is being violated, and where it finds such violations have occurred, it will undoubtedly call on the FCC to refuse to renew the licences and issue them to other applicants. In this House on 8th April this year I pointed out to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  the desire of the US Federal Communications Commission to have legislation introduced to break up existing multi-media combinations in the United States over a maximum period of 5 years. I asked the Prime Minister on that occasion would he introduce similar legislation to break up existing multi-media combinations in Australia.  His  reply was rather flimsy wherein he stated he would be reluctant to accept the proposition that something that once operated legally should after the passage of certain legislation be said to be operating illegally. In other words, what he said was this: Because one government at some stage approved the existing multi-media setup in Australia other successive Governments cannot look to changing the situation even though the provisions of the relevant legislation may be operating to the detriment of the people. On the basis of that profound piece of logic no bad law can be repealed because it was once deemed to have operated legally and properly. With this sort of fuzzy thinking from the Prime Minister no wonder the Postmaster-General has no incentive to administer the Act strictly in the public interest contrary to the corporate interest vested in this area. 
Television and broadcasting licences in this country are mainly in the hands of 5 great metropolitan newspaper groups, The Melbourne 'Herald' and 'Age', in Melbourne, John Fairfax and Sons Ltd, and the Consolidated Press Packer interests - in Sydney, and the Rupert Murdoch Adelaide 'News'-Sydney 'Daily Mirror' group in Adelaide and Sydney. According to the Act no group is supposed to control more than 2 television stations or more than 8 broadcasting stations in Australia. I propose to show how the Postmaster-General has broken both the spirit and the letter of the Act in the issue of licences to these groups, and by giving his consent to the transfer of licences from interests who were only originally granted licences for specific purposes, but those same licences we now see transferred to the members of these giant newspaper groups. 
Firstly, I will take the Melbourne Herald' organisation. In television it has absolute control of HSV7 Melbourne and, through its subsidiaries of Queensland Press Ltd and the 'Daily Telegraph' in Brisbane, it controls BTQ7 Brisbane. Through its own holdings and those of Queensland Press Ltd it holds, for the purpose of this Act, a controlling interest in ADS7 Adelaide and through its majority holding of shares in Davies Bros, publishers of the Hobart 'Examiner', it holds a controlling interest in TVT6 Hobart. In other words, the total number of television stations it controls in Australia is 4 instead of the maximum of 2 which is stipulated under the Act. Again, the Melbourne Herald' recently acquired a controlling interest in West Australian Newspapers Ltd, which controls TVW7 Perth, but I understand that the Postmaster-General has refused to consent to the transfer and has instructed the Melbourne 'Herald' to dispose of such shares. 
Let us have a look at radio broadcasting. In Victoria the Melbourne 'Herald' holds the licences for 3DB Melbourne and 3LK Lubeck. In Queensland, through its subsidiaries, it controls 4BK Brisbane, 4AK Darling Downs and 4AM Atherton. In South Australia, according to a proper application of the Act, it may be said to have a controlling interest in 5AD Adelaide, 5M.U Murray Bridge, 5PI Crystal Brook and 5SE Mount Gambier, while in Tasmania, through Davies Bros, it holds a controlling interest in 7HO Hobart. In Western Australia, through its recent acquisition of West Australian Newspapers, it picked up an additional 4 broadcasting stations, namely, 61X Perth, 6MD Merredin, 6WB Katanning and 6BY Bridgetown. In other words, the Postmaster-General has been a consenting authority to the holding of 14 broadcasting licences by the Melbourne 'Herald' instead of the fixed maximum of 8 under the Act. 
I shall now say a few kindly words about the empire of John Fairfax and Sons Ltd, publishers of the 'Sydney Morning Herald' and the Sydney 'Sun'. Its story, like the one of the Melbourne 'Herald', is also one of commercial bigamy. In the field of television it holds the licence of ATN7 Sydney and BTQ7 Brisbane, while for the purposes of the Act it could be said to hold a controlling interest in CTC7 Canberra and, through its subsidiary the Newcastle Morning Herald' and Miners Advocate, a controlling interest in NBN3 Newcastle as well as major holdings in W1N4 Wollongong, BTV6 Ballarat in Victoria and DDQ 10 Toowoomba on the Darling Downs in Queensland. The ramifications of the Fairfax empire in broadcasting are just as wide ranging as those of the Melbourne 'Herald'. It owns all the shares in 2GB Sydney and 2 WL Wollongong and all the ordinary shares in 2CA Canberra. It also has majority holdings in 3AW Melbourne, 5DN Adelaide and 2LF Young in New South Wales. In addition, through its subsidiary the 'Newcastle Morning Herald and Miners Advocate', it holds a controlling interest in 2NX Bolwarra and 2NM Muswellbrook. In addition, under the terms of the Act it has a controlling interest in 4BH Brisbane. Chandlers (Australia) Ltd of Brisbane transferred its shares in 4BH to John Fairfax and Sons Ltd although the company must have fully realised that in doing so it was consenting to a violation of the strict terms of the Act. Although he was not the responsible Minister at the time the PostmasterGeneral should have personal knowledge of this transaction. 
John Fairfax and Sons Ltd also hold 2,241,400 shares out of a total of 6 million in David Syme Ltd so that if we adhere strictly to the definition of control as expressed in the Act, John Fairfax and Sons Ltd may be said to have a controlling interest in David Syme Ltd, publishers of the Melbourne 'Age' and 'Newsday'. Quite recently the Minister consented to the transfer of the licence of 3XY Melbourne to the Melbourne 'Age', which makes it another fief in the Fairfax empire, although the Act says that the same interests can only hold one metropolitan licence in the one city. The Fairfax organisation's partner in the Melbourne 'Age' is the David Syme Trust. The David Syme Trust owns all the shares in the Victorian Broadcasting Network Ltd. It also holds all the shares in 3CV Maryborough, 3HA Hamilton, 3SH Swan Hill and 3TR Sale. The Postmaster-General has also given his consent to the acquisition of all the shares in 4MK Mackay in Queensland and 6PR Perth, 6TZ Bunbury and 6CI Collie in Western Australia. 
The next corporate Press interest with which I would like to deal is the Consolidated Press-Packer interests in the Sydney Daily Telegraph' and other publications. In television they hold majority interests in TCN9 Sydney and GTV9 Melbourne and, through subsidiaries, substantial interests in WIN4 Wollongong, NBV3 Newcastle, ECN8 Taree and BTQ7 Brisbane. Technically speaking their holdings are within the terms of the Act, but the position with regard to their holdings would not be tolerated if the American principles were applied to local television administration. In the broadcasting field the Packer interests own a majority of the shares in 3AK Melbourne. 
The story of 3AK is an interesting one. The licence was originally granted to a small religious sect, under the strict terms that it was to be on the air from midnight to dawn only. After suffering heavy losses for many years, it was given permission by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to vary its hours from dawn to sunset. When the Packer interests bought the licence application was made to convert it to a 24 hours a day station. This meant that it was in competition at night with existing Melbourne stations. As the purpose for which the licence was issued had changed completely it was for all intents and purposes an entirely new licence. Had the Control Board done its job properly it would have recommended to the PostmasterGeneral that new applications should be called for and a public inquiry held before he rushed in and gave his consent. The Postmaster-General also gave his consent to the transfer to the Packer interests of 4 stations in Western Australia belonging to the Whitford Network, namely 6PR Perth. 6AM Northam, 6KG Kalgoorlie, and 6GE Geraldton. These licences had been granted originally to Western Australian residents. If the Postmaster-General had observed his own declared policy, an opportunity would have been given to the local residents to acquire the stations before he consented to their transfer to interests which the people of Western Australia would regard as foreign. 
Finally, I come to the interests of Rupert Murdoch and the Adelaide 'News' group. In television they own all the shares in NWS9 Adelaide and. through the 'Daily Mirror' in Sydney have a controlling interest in WTN4 Wollongong and, through another subsidiary, a 15% controlling interest in NBN3 Newcastle. In broadcasting, Murdoch has a controlling interest in 5DN Adelaide, all the shares in 2BH Broken Hill and, through a truly remarkable deal, he has acquired all the shares in 6KY Perth, the licence of which was originally issued to the 'Worker' newspaper and its satellite station 6NA Narrogin. 
All the facts and figures I have quoted in this speech were obtained from the 21st annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, though I must admit that it was only after some very close scrutiny. They prove how the PostmasterGeneral has driven a horse and carriage through the provisions of the Act and, by signing renewals of licences, has condoned gross violations of the provisions of the Act I believe that the proper course which should be taken with this Bill is to refer it to a standing committee of this House, which should conduct a full public inquiry into how our mass communications have been thrown into the hands of a few powerful newspaper proprietors. The committee should also make recommendations regarding the issue and renewal of licences and the conditions under which transfers of licences are granted. The Prime Minister has stated that he is in favour of setting up standing committees of the House to report on proposed legislation. Here is one subject which is simply crying out for such an inquiry. T challenge him to prove his bona fides to this House and to the members of his own Party who have requested the establishment of such committees by setting up such a committee. 
I see little relevance in the point made by the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  when be compared this Parliament with other parliaments in the Commonwealth and in other countries. I think we are competent to decide how many parliamentarians should constitute a quorum to keep the business of the House going and to pass legislation. At some time in the future a contingency might arise when a government is threatened with its life. The Ministry of 24 members could be brought here to form a quorum and to carry legislation which may have some bearing on the constitutional crisis. One cannot foresee future events. There is safety in numbers. I think half the total number of members of the House plus one should constitute a quorum. That is a fair proposition. For a parliament to transact its business half its number plus one should be present. I do not agree that the number should be 42. But to reduce the number from 42 to 25 is ludicrous and would be a slight on this place and on the membership of this place and an insult to the people of the Commonwealth.  think that at least 42 members should be here to transact business. I support the amendment. 
I address my question to the Minister for National Development.  Is it true that the radio active wastes produced from a natural uranium nuclear reactor pose a far greater disposal problem than the waste produced from an enriched uranium reactor? Is it true also that the replacement frequency of spent fuel elements in an 'on line' natura] uranium reactor introduces a hazard factor that is not present to the same extent in an enriched uranium reactor where the fuel elements are replaced only once every few years when the reactor is taken 'off live' for the operation? Bearing these factors in mind, and also the fact that nuclear wastes must be stored for 1,000 years, why did the tender specifications for the Jervis Bay project express a preference for a reactor type using natural uranium fuel which, of course, loads the specifications in favour of the Canadian tenderer? 
With Australia on the threshold of entering the field of nuclear power and in the light of the recent discovery of high grade uranium ore at the Nabarlek prospect in the Northern Territory, the time is opportune, I believe, for the Government to adopt a standard policy for the exploration and utilisation of our uranium deposits. Nabarlek, with its indicated reserves of 55,000 tons of uranium with ore grades averaging as high as 540 lb to a ton, puts Australia in a unique position as we have a supply of high grade uranium oxide that could be realised for something around one-fifth of the cost of uranium oxide produced overseas. Queensland Mines Ltd, the holder of the Nabarlek leases, could out-compete any mine overseas for the supply of uranium oxide and in fact could disastrously undercut its nearest competitor and still secure a handsome profit. Already the pressures have been applied for the export of Nabarlek uranium.  Sir Phillip  Baxter, the  Chairman  of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, is reported to have already discussed the Nabarlek find with representatives of the Japanese Science Technology Agency who no doubt see the Nabarlek strike as a reliable source for the massive uranium needs of Japan's nuclear power programme. The Atomic Energy Act 1953-1966 confers on  Sir Phillip  Baxter, as  Chairman  of the AAEC, power to negotiate for the exploration, treatment and sale of uranium. 
To date there has not been any accurate assessment of Australia's uranium needs nor a reconciliation of those needs with our proven reserves. Uranium is the key to the world's power supply and with the serious depletion of fossil fuel reserves I believe the Government should exercise such controls as would guarantee all our future needs. For example, the Nabarlek find would give Australia a nuclear fuel supply for only 25 power stations the size of the Jervis Bay project for a period of only 30 years. The Government's present uranium export policy is atrociously weak as there is no statutory export limit. Only recently permission was given for the export of 2,700 tons by Mary Kathleen Uranium. I believe we should not allow exploration companies to reap the benefits of Australia's natural resources purely and simply because they have found them. The principle should be that Australia's natural wealth belongs to the people of Australia and not to the shareholders of uranium exploration companies. To be fair, I consider we should meet the exploration costs incurred by companies exploring for minerals and then allow them a fair profit on the sale of the natural product for Australia's own use. 
At the moment quite a number of exploration companies are prospecting for uranium in Australia - Queensland Mines Ltd, Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd, PekoWallsend, E.Z. Industries, Westmoreland, Exoil-Transoil, Petomin and United Uranium, to name but a few. The Australian Atomic Energy Commission under the powers conferred on it by the Atomic Energy Act could prospect for uranium itself if the Government would grant it the necessary finance. This would obviate the problem of having commercial exploration companies trying to cash in on the country's resources. I should also point out that the Bureau of Mineral Resources carries out all the costly geophysical mapping of Australia at Government expense and then exploration companies secure the information and direct their operations accordingly. Many overseas firms are amazed at the information given freely by the Bureau, information that other governments would regard as classified. If the Government goes so far with the Bureau why does it not go a little further and do the whole job? 
The Bureau some time ago mapped the area where the Queensland Mines Nabarlek prospect now is and advised companies to prospect there. It appears that a nurse in Darwin got wind of the information, took up leases and later convinced Queensland Mines to explore the area. Queensland Mines is a company owned and controlled by Australians and I would not like to see this company fall prey to any foreign company including the Rio Tinto Zinc group, which controls most of the uranium sales in the western world. Rio Tinto-Zinc Corporation Limited of the United Kingdom which is itself owned by the European-based Rothschild banking organisation owns 83.6 per cent of Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited, commonly known as CRA, which in turn owns 51 per cent of Mary Kathleen Uranium, the company that recently secured permission from the Government for the export of 2,700 short tons of uranium. Rio Tinto-Zinc Corporation Limited owns the Rio Algom mine in Canada, one of the world's major uranium suppliers. It also owns Riofinex, its South African Uranium subsidiary. Rio Tinto-Zinc's boardroom policy, which, of course, is decided overseas, has already had a decisive impact upon the production of uranium in Australia. 
The Queensland Mines Nabarlek strike could threaten the Rio Tinto monopoly and Rio Tinto will now move to strangle the independence of the Queensland Mines operation. CRA, as Rio Tinto-Zinc's agent, could attempt to take over Kathleen Investments Limited which has a 50 per cent equity in Queensland Mines. Kathleen Investments also holds 35 per cent of Mary Kathleen Uranium which is now jointly owned and controlled, as I said before, by CRA. I am quite certain that Kathleen Investments would be none too agreeable with the idea of being taken over by CRA. Nevertheless, anything from 30 per cent upwards equity interest in Kathleen Investments could amount to effective control of the company. As both Kathleen Investments and Queensland Mines Limited are incorporated in the ACT, the Federal Government would have the power to step in should there be any rapid increase in the nominee shareholdings in either company and I would recommend this course to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton). 
Even in the short time since the Queensland Mine discovery the value of Mary Kathleen Uranium shares have been depressed from $3.80 to something approximating $2.50 and this company does have a production contract. On this single score alone CRA would have reason to move in for the kill. Of course, it must not be forgotten that Rio Tinto has already had two attempts to thwart Kathleen Investments interests - one in 1958 and one in 1965  -  but both moves were unsuccessful. In 1958 Rio Tinto went to the High Court in an endeavour to stop an Australian Company, Australian Oil Exploration Ltd, from selling its holdings in Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd to Kathleen Investments Ltd, then known as Mary Kathleen Investments. Fortunately the High Court ruled against Rio Tinto, and Kathleen Investments took up the Australian Oil Exploration shareholding in Mary Kathleen Uranium. Rio Tinto, through its subsidiary CRA, came again in 1965 with a share offer that was rejected by Kathleen Investments, thereby preventing CRA acquiring control of MKU at that time. It is an indictment on any Government for it to have no legislative control against foreign owned corporations taking over Australian resources and having to rely on the Prime Minister's whim to 'fire from the hip' when he sees fit. If the Prime Minister fails 'to fire' this time then we may lose control of this important uranium deposit. 
I believe the following should be done: Firstly, the Government to take immediate action to see that Queensland Mines be not taken over by any foreign group; secondly, the Government closely control all uranium exports ensuring at all times that Australia has adequate deposits in reserve; thirdly, the Government to convene a conference of all State Attorneys-General to amend the company laws to ensure that 
Australian resources remain in the control of Australians; fourthly, the Atomic Energy Commission, in conjunction with the Bureau of Mineral Resources, to actively engage itself in the exploration and mining of uranium; and, fifthly, the Government to investigate and report to Parliament on the activities of the Rothchild's backed Rio Tinto Zinc Group and its subsidiaries and its attempts to gain control of our uranium resources. If the steps I have outlined are taken then 1 am certain that the problems presented by the Nabarlek strike will not occur again in the future. 
I commend the thoughts I have expressed to the Parliament, to the Prime Minister and to the Minister for National Development. I sincerely hope that they heed my words, because we have a very serious position. It is a position . that we will see more and more when we find strikes of the quality and size of the Nabarlek strike falling prey to merchant banks operating under the guise of legitimate business corporations. It is time that this Government did something to check the activities within the Australian economy of merchant banks which are owned and controlled overseas, which disguise their shareholdings and which set up corporations in Australia to take over supposedly legitimately, businesses, companies and industries where we do not require their capital and where we have the skills. This is something that is operating to the detriment of the Australian people and I believe that this Government has not done enough to try to control it. I certainly hope in this instance that the Prime Minister does take action and do something similar to what he did in the MLC case. 
1 move: 
That the ruling be dissented from. 
I rise to order,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I moved the motion. Have I not the right to speak to it? 
You are very gracious, sir. Thank you very much. The honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman),  in making a personal explanation, drew conclusions about the crowd and the aims of the group outside Parliament House and then associated the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  with those aims. If he had said that the Leader of the Opposition was to give advice that would have been OK, but he reflected upon the Leader of the Opposition by saying he was giving advice to a group that wanted a Communist victory in Vietnam. If that is what the honourable member for Deakin thinks, he has no right to associate the Leader of the Opposition with that group in the way in which be did. He did reflect upon the character of the Leader of the Opposition and, in my view, your ruling is not correct. That is the reason why I have moved dissent from your ruling, and other honourable members of the Parliament agree with me. 
asked the Minister for 
External Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Government, when the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty was signed on behalf of Australilia on 27 February 1970, issue a statement setting out various matters that would have to be resolved to its satisfaction before Australia would ratify the Treaty. 
Did the matters mentioned in the statement include the effectiveness of the Treaty, the security guarantees given by the nuclear weapons parties, the nature and content of the safeguard agreements with the International Atomic Energy and the right of non-nuclear weapons parties to develop the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. 
What steps has the Government taken since the signing of the Treaty by Australia to satisfy itself that the Treaty, will not impair Australia's security . or right to develop nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, and what progress has been made in obtaining the assurances the Government requires. 
When does the Government expect to make a decision regarding ratification of the Treaty. 
Have Indonesia and Japan yet ratified the Treaty; if not, havethe Governments of these countries announced their intentions in regard to ratification of the Treaty. 
In dealing with the estimates of the Department of National Development and the role the Department plays in regard to Australia's uranium resources, I would like to avail myself of this opportunity to mention some of the aspects which I raised on 16th September of ibis year in a debate on the motion for the adjournment of this chamber. I refer to the possible takeover of Queensland Mines Ltd, the company which made the massive uranium find at Nabarlek in the Northern Territory. Honourable members are aware that on 17th September this year the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  made a statement on this matter in which he gave notice of his intention to legislate to prevent an effective takeover of Queensland Mines Ltd by any foreign controlled or backed organisation. As the preventive legislation to be introduced, would be an Australian Capital Territory company ordinance and not an Act of this Parliament the House Would be unable to debate any aspects of it. Therefore, I would like on this occasion to deal briefly with some of the subject matter. 
Basically the legislation would limit to 15 per cent of the issued share capital the total number of shares able to be held by Queensland Mines Ltd or Kathleen Investments Ltd, a company which holds a 50 per cent equity in Queensland Mines Ltd. In other words, 15 per cent of these companies can be owned overseas with the further provision that no one holding may exceed 5 per cent. In my speech on 16th September I outlined the possible dangers of a takeover and called upon the Prime Minister to introduce legislation to prevent it, which he intends to do. In the course of my remarks I suggested that the Government should convene a conference of the Commonwealth and State Attorneys- 
General to discuss amending the company laws in order to ensure that Australian resources remain in the control of Australians. I did so thinking that in the light of the Nabarlek problem the Government might be stirred into setting up permanent machinery to prevent foreign takeovers instead of relying on the Prime Minister's whims as to when and where he should act with stopgap legislation. I should point out that the Prime Minister can act only when a company is incorporated in the Australian Capital Territory. Clearly the Government has no intention of acting upon my suggestion in this regard. 
What is needed, of course, is a constitutional change and the introduction of comprehensive federal company law. This is the only thing which will give the Parliament power to protect Australia's natural resources and guarantee Australian' cor:porate independence. At the moment section 51, placitum (xx), of the Constitution confers on the Parliament legislative powers with respect to foreign corporations and trading or financial corporations -formed within the limits of the Commonwealth. The first test of this section of the Constitution occurred when the High Court of Australia considered the case of Huddart Parker &amp; Co. Pty Ltd v Moorehead in 1909. The High Court held on that occasion that the Federal Parliament could not control the behaviour of the companies under section 51, placitum (xx) - the corporation power. The Royal Commission on the Constitution in 1929 and the High Court deliberations on the banking case in 1948 also confirmed the opinion that was expressed by the High Court in the case Huddart Parker &amp; Co. Pty Ltd v. Moorehead. 
The Joint Committee on Constitutional Review in its report in 1959 pointed out that the existing Australian company law legislation consisting of Acts of the 6 States and the company ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory exhibited areas of wide divergence that in the view of the Committee could only be overcome by the introduction of comprehensive Federal company law legislation. The Committee recommended this course in its report but the Liberals failed to take any action to secure the necessary constitutional change. As the Constitution stands at the moment this Parliament is virtually powerless to take any action in respect of companies, unless of course a company is incorporated in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The Commonwealth does have an alternate but less desirable option open to it in relation to controls over companies searching and mining for minerals with a view to export, that is, to use its power under section- 51, placitum (i), of the Constitution to make laws with respect to trade and commerce with other countries, and among the States'. Under this power the Commonwealth could refuse to grant a mineral export licence to a company unless it was incorporated in the Australian Capital Territory. This approach could be adopted immediately and would serve to have any company intending to export minerals brought under the control of the Commonwealth Parliament. There is no need for the . .Government to flounder around pointing the bone at State governments and State Ministers for Mines when it itself could overcome its constitutional impediments by , the method I have just outlined. 
If we are serious about this debate on the estimates- for the Department of National Development is it not about time that the people had value for. money, by having the -Department do its job as it should, as only it can, when this Parliament has legislative, power over companies that are participating ; in our national development? Harking back to my speech concerning the Nabarlek uranium on 16th September, on that occasion I named Conzinc Rio Tinto of Australia Limited as the company most . likely to attempt a takeover of Queensland Mines Limited. Conzinc Rio Tinto of Australia would in any such action have been acting as agent for its parent company Rio Tinto Zinc Corporation Ltd of the United Kingdom. During my remarks I said that Rio Tinto Zinc of the United Kingdom was controlled by the European-based Rothschild banking organisation, and' much to my surprise I must have touched, a few sensitive nerves. It was pointed out to me that the  chairman  of Rio Tinto Zinc,  Sir Val  Duncan, said recently at the annual general meeting of Rio Algom Mines Ltd, its Canadian uranium company, that the Rothschilds' interests in Rio Tinto Zinc were insignificant. I do not regard that statement as indicative of the true influence Rothschilds has upon Rio Tinto Zinc and in turn upon CRA. 
I would like to quote from the 1969 annual report of Rio Tinto Zinc to illustrate my point. In the section of the report which deals with directors' interests one note says this passage: 
The interests of  Mr D.  R. Colville and of Baron Guy de Rothschild include the following holdings which ate owned (beneficially or nonbeneficially) either by N. M. Rothschild and Sons, in which both directors are partners, or by a company in which N. M. Rothschild and Sons controls more than one third of the voting rights. 
The main point that emerges from this note is that D. R. Colvile and Baron Guy de Rothschild are partners in N. M. Rothschild and Sons, the . merchant bank. An analysis of the number of Rio Tinto. Zinc ordinary shares held by .the 27 directors reveals that Baron Guy de Rothschild and his partner, D. R. Colville, between them hold the astounding proportion of 85.28 per cent of the total number of ordinary shares held by the. directors including the  chairman, Sir Val  Duncan. Clearly these figures prove that Rothschilds have a pre. dominant influence upon the board of Rio Tinto Zinc Corporation Ltd and through its 83.6 per cent equity in Conzinc Rio Tinto of Australia Ltd a prominent influence on that company. 
While the stated holdings of Rothschilds and Colville in RTZ are small in comparison with the issued capital of 101,865,832 shares I think it is fair to assume that the finance houses of the City of London which would hold the vast majority of RTZ shares would not be prepared to see Rothschilds dominate the RTZ board unless of course Rothschilds has massive nominate shareholding itself and control over other institutions holding RTZ stock. I do not believe that I have done RTZ or CRA any injustice for I am certain that both companies are virtually commercial extensions of merchant banks dominated by the Rothschild influence. What has to be realised is that sooner or later this Parliament has to control the operations of these gigantic financial institutions. At the moment their profits are being reinvested in Australia. The day will arrive when they want to repatriate their funds back to their countries of . origin. I hope we realise before then the magnitude of the problem we will face on that occasion. 
I deal now with the subject of uranium in relation to Australia's future nuclear power needs and to the selection of the reactor type for the Jervis Bay installation. The discovery of the giant uranium deposit at Nabarlek, with its concentration of uranium oxide as high as 540 lb per ton, opens up a number of questions in relation to reactor type selection and fuel policy. Firstly, would it be an economic proposition for Australia to install her own enriching plant with a view to becoming an exporter of enriched uranium and a supplier for our own stations? Secondly, would not this possible enrichment installation have a bearing on the tender selected for the Jervis Bay station7 Thirdly is the Australian Atomic Energy Commission carrying out any investigations on enrichment technology? The gas centrifuge system currently being used in the United States of America is expensive. The plant is worth something of the order of $700m. The centrifuge method is believed to cut the capital cost to something in the vicinity of $400,000 to $500,000. Fourthly can we proceed with our programme without taking into account enrichment processes? Fifthly what impact will fast breeder reactor technology have upon our uranium reserves? Is it true that this technology would render our reserves redundant and of no value? Should not we be exporting as much as we can now and reap the profits and still retain a reasonable supply of fissionable fuel? 
Those are a few of the questions that relate to enrichment. I do not think the Atomic Energy Commission has considered fully those aspects. Bearing in mind these considerations, it is important that the reactor type selected for the Jervis Bay station is one that is best suited to Australia's needs because the technicians training on this reactor no doubt will be gaining experience that will dominate the selection of the next reactor. I would like to quote a couple of arguments for and against the 2 main types under consideration - the Canadian CANDU reactor and the British steam generating, heavy water reactor. A paper prepared by  Mr Tony  Barry lists some of the advantages and disadvantages "of the CANDU system. The advantages are these: Firstly, national uranium fuel independence from overseas supplies; secondly, high plutonium production which can atd either a nuclear bomb project or the installation of fast breeder reactors; thirdly, partly proven design; fourthly, low fuel inventory and replacement, allowing  a  small interest burden on stockpiles if overseas fuel is used; fifthly, it is not necessary to reprocess fuel elements to extract unused uranium 235 to achieve good fuel economy. Some of the disadvantages he lists are these: Firstly, higher unit cost to provide electricity, perhaps 10 per cent higher in some circumstances; secondly, possible reductions in cost of enriched uranium with the introduction of centrifuge enrichment could make this type of plant even less economic; thirdly, on stream replacement of fuel elements; fourthly, as with any reactor type to produce weapons grade plutonium it is extremely uneconomic in terms of the cost of electricity produced. CANDU and SGHWR are most suitable for this type of activity. 
In relation to steam generating, heavy water reactors, he lists some advantages and disadvantages. The advantages are: Firstly, cheaper fuel cycle than with fully enriched reactors; secondly, probable cheaper unit costs for power generation; thirdly, boilers are not required external to the core; fourthly, the use of pressure tubes for the coolant means that. a thick steel pressure vessel for the core is not required; access to centrifuge technology if British design is chosen. Some of the disadvantages are limited experience of design, the need to use enriched fuel and the fact that plutonium production is less than that of the CANDU system. We have to look at a number of considerations. I have said before that the applications and invitations to tender are weighted in favour of the CANDU t type of reactor. I think it has been fairly well canvassed that the CANDU reactor using natural uranium fuel produces quite an amount of plutonium 239 which is the material used to make a very basic dirty bomb. A dirty bomb is one that throws off a lot of radioactivity. Of course, the proof of the pudding will be in the eating when we see the type of reactor finally selected. I have a sneaking suspicion that with the nonratification of the Treaty on the NonProliferation of Nuclear Weapons this Government could be considering keeping its options open for the construction of  a  nuclear weapon. I do not think this Government has any right to select a reactor of the CANDU type for the purpose of producing nuclear weapons without a full debate in this Parliament on this very question.If we manufacture nuclear weapons in Australia we will commit ourselves to be targeted by nations such as Communist China, which has perfected delivery systems for its nuclear weapons, and Russia. The production of nuclear weapons is something that is linked with the selection of the CANDU type reactor. This is something that should be considered by this Parliament. Anorher matter which needs to be considered is the prob lem of nuclear wastage. Waste is a problem. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. I preface the question by referring to his stated intention to introduce legislation preventing a takeover of Queensland Mines Limited, the uranium prospector. As his initiative in this case was made possible only because the company concerned was incorporated in the Australian Capital Territory, I ask: Will he adopt a policy to give this Parliament more  power over Australia's natural resources by informing companies searching and mining for minerals, with a view to export, that the Government will not grant them an export licence for their produce unless each company concerned is incorporated in the Australian Capital Territory? 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
What are the names of the personnel in his Department and the other Service Departments who (a) set down the criteria for aircraft performance requirements and who evaluate the various aircraft types offered to Australia's Armed Forces, (b) head the respective departmental evaluation teams dealing with aircraft procurement and (c) comprised the evaluation team that advised the Menzies Government in 1963 concerning the procurement of the General Dynamics F-111 fighter-bomber. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has the Government been approached by Avjons Marcel Dassault of France to consider the acquisition of the Mirage IIIDM advanced dual supersonic trainer/ground support aircraft for the Royal Australian Air Force. 
Has the Government considered the proposal; if so with what result. 
ls there an RAAF requirement for this type of aircraft. 
 I do not intend to deal with any of the matters raised by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  including that of a Russian presence in the Indian Ocean except to make the point that this Government and this country can do little about it because our defence forces are vastly inadequate. I would like to have the opportunity to debate the general aspects of Australia's defence, but as we are limited to a 10 minute speech I can make only a few specific points on the defence set-up as it currently exists. We might have had the opportunity to discuss Australia's defence if we had had a chance to discuss the statement made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in March, but the debate has been postponed, lt is about No. 6 on the notice paper - never to be returned to this House - so this is the first opportunity since that we have had to discuss the whole question. The Government's estimate for the expenditure necessary to ' meet Australia's defence needs for the year 1970-71 is just on $1,1 37m. This amount represents an increase of $33m on last year's defence expenditure. It is an  increase of exactly 3.1 per cent - not very much of an increase when one considers that a large proportion of this 3 per cent increase will be swallowed by service wage and salary increases. 
The defence appropriation for the coming year will decrease by 1.1 per cent as a proportion of total annual Commonwealth spending. This is evidence of a situation that is a far cry from the attitudes expressed by the Minister for Defence who has repeatedly stated that the Government would continue to spend more and more money each year on defence as a measure of long term security. Not only is the defence appropriation itself receding but one has to doubt if the people are getting value for the money spent anyway. An analysis of Australia's defence organisation and preparedness leads one to the plain realisation that the Liberals should no longer be entrusted with Australia's defence. Statements made recently by  Sir Henry  Bland, the former permanent head of the Department of Defence, quite clearly indicate that the present defence structure leaves a lot to be desired. In a speech to the Western Australian Branch of the Australian Institute of International Affairs  Sir Henry  advocated a restructuring of the defence group of departments bringing the existing 5 departments - Defence, Navy. Army, Air and Supply - into "a 3 department complex. In his plan the Department of Defence would continue to exercise its present functions but would include some of the functions now discharged by the 3 Service departments. The second department he envisaged would concern itself with the raising, training and administering of the 3 services and the third department would basically carry out the supply function of equipment, research, development and procurement as well as the supply of material and logistics. 
Implicit in  Sir Henry's  statement is that the existing defence set-up is inefficient and inadequate. The Labor Party believes this to be the true position and "has constantly advocated a restructuring of the defence machine. I think it is fair to assume that  Sir Henry's  statement is a direct slap in the face for the Minister for Defence and the Cabinet in general. In his lecture  Sir Henry  referred to the fourth arm of defence concept as outlined by the Minister for Defence in a speech to this Parliament last 
March. On that occasion the Minister took time to advise the House that he was involving industry in Australia's defence administration. All this fourth arm talk by the Government involving industry sounds very good, but unfortunately in reality it has meant very little. The major industries that are always heavily dependent upon defence orders are being starved almost to the point of extinction. The aircraft industry would be the best example. The naval shipbuilding industry would be another. In this year's Budget the expenditure on naval ship construction is estimated to decrease by $18,977,000 on last year's figure. The Budget gives no intimation that procurement from Australian industry is being given any additional encouragement. 
The Government, realising the lack of encouragement and support it has given to Australia's defence industries, has made a great noise about what is termed off-set and co-production. These terms refer to what would be the Australian manufactured component of items of defence equipment procured from overseas for our armed forces. Through the use of these much overworked terms the Government has hoped to placate Australian industry with promises of an indirect but bigger slice of the procurement cake. The fact of the matter is that since 1966 and until March this year the approximate value of sub-contract or off-set work, as it is termed, has been a little under $5m. This is an infinitesimal amount when one considers that Australia has spent approximately $900m overseas on military equipment during that period. I will admit that things have improved a little this year with the Australian content in the acquisition of the light observation helicopter, the Boeing Chinook medium lift helicopter and bits and pieces from United States commercial projects, but this is not enough. The Government hails these meagre achievements as marvellous pieces of salesmanship when in fact most foreign governments buying overseas military equipment make certain that the home industries are considered by writing an off-set requirement clause into the original invitation to tender documents. This is not done in Australia, but it should be. Any overseas company answering Australian military tender invitations should be quite certain that if it wants our order it is mandatory that off-set work roust be  provided to assist Australian defence industries. To the present time most of the off-set work has been what could be called nut and bolt work. Most of the items concerned have been fairly simple requiring very little specific skill. No doubt this production has been useful to establish confidence in Australian manufacturers and to establish that an acceptable degree of quality control exists. But what are now required are off-set items that are of a more complex nature, that not only supply a workload to industry but demand a broadening of our skills and technology. 
The Government recently announced its decision to have a Rolls-Royce gas turbine propulsion system as the basis for the preliminary design of a light destroyer for the Royal Australian Navy. This is a golden opportunity for the Government to see that the Australian aircraft industry receives substantial sophisticated off-set work from the British. The use of the gas turbine as a means of marine and road transportation will, T believe, increase dramatically in the near future, ft is imperative that Australian skill and technology in this field is assured so that in the defence sense we will not be dependent upon another country for spares of replacement units. On the subject of spares, the Government should see that as near as practicable Australian industry manufactures all the high usage rate spares for our militaryequipment. This has not been a specific policy in the past and the Government cannot escape criticism in this area. The leasing arrangements recently concluded for the McDonnell-Douglas F4E Phantom aircraft bear out my contention. Under this agreement no provision as been made for local servicing of the Phantoms. Therefor spares and a much needed workload for Australian industry will be given out overseas. At a time when the Australian aircraft industry is battling to survive the Government denies it this work - work it could have sent its way with the stroke of a pen. Also, what should not be forgotten is that the Phantom replaces the Canberra bomber which has given a constant workload in spares production including maintenance and overhaul. Tt is not just a matter of what the local aircraft industry does not gain from the Phantoms; it is what it loses from the Canberras. A further implication of the Phantom deal is that it pre cludes the local industry gaining any off-set orders from the United States should the Fill contract eventually be cancelled, leaving the Phantom lease as virtually a hire purchase agreement. 
Another area where the Government comes under fire is the matter of the credit terms that Australian manufacturers are able to offer other countries. I could highlight this by referring to the sale of Macchi aircraft to New Zealand. Honourable members will be familiar with the fact that the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation has manufactured the Macchi for the Australian Armed services and is at the moment trying to sell this aircraft to the New Zealand Government. We arc offering credit terms at the normal overdraft rates of  7i  per cent whereas the competitive aircraft from Britain is being offered at about 51 per cent or 6 per cent. These credit terms are being backed by the British Export Guarantee Corporation. 
On 20th August this year I asked the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  a question. The last part of my question was: 
Will the Government set up an export credit facility to provide finance at better than commercial terms to assist the export sales of Australian manufactured military equipment and other high value commercial exports? 
In his reply the Minister said:  lt is quite clear that certain governments from time to time seek to give their exporters a competitive advantage by providing funds at lower interest rates. 1 have never felt that this Government could engage in an interest rate war in these circumstances. 
Let us analyse what the Minister said. To give their countries a competitive advantage most major manufacturing countries have set up export credit banks. In this way these countries give all of their high value transactions the backing of low interest rates. But Australia cannot even assist in the sale of Macchi aircraft which is helping to keep the Australian aircraft industry alive. The Government does not think it is worth while to reduce interest rates to a reasonable level of about  5i  per cent to 6 per cent. Therefore, when honourable members opposite talk about encouraging or assisting Australian industry they talk a lot of hog wash because they do not care at all. It is the same old classic, Liberal approach. When you want equipment you put your hand into tits 
Treasury till for a big cheque and hope like hell you can get it. That is all right in times of peace but when you have a contingent military situation you cannot always get the equipment. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the $US34m paid for the lease of the McDonnell Douglas Phantom F4E aircraft covers maintenance and servicing in the United States of component parts of the aircraft. 
Does the Government intend to enter into arrangements with local industry for major servicing of the Phantom in Australia. 
1 should like to ask the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  to consider leaving the Defence Statement - Order of the Day No. 37 - on the notice paper. The House has had the opportunity of discussing defence only in the Estimates debate and honourable members have been restricted to speaking for 10 minutes. The only  speaker  on this statement from the 
Opposition has been the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  when he replied to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  We have had no opportunity of discussing the statement and since the Government is all fired up about the importance of defence to Australia, is it not time that the Parliament had an opportunity to discuss this lengthy and detailed statement? 

 Mr SNEDDEN (Bruce - Minister for Labour and National Service (12.27 a.m.) - in reply - My colleague, the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  made a similar request. It was my intention, after we had disposed of consideration of Order of the Day No. 35, to propose that Order of the Day No. 37 remain on the notice paper. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  has asked that this Order of the Day remain on the notice paper and at the appropriate time I will move for the deletion of Orders of the Day Nos 35 and 37 from the motion. 
That orders of the Day Nos 35 and 37 be deleted from the motion. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Original question, as amended, resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What foreign-owned banks are operating in Australia at present. 
What foreign-owned institutions or organisations, that could be broadly classified as merchant banks, are operating in Australia at present. 
On behalf of the Australian Labor,: Party I move: 
In proposed section 90aa (2.)&lt; omit twelfth day  of  December', insert 'twenty-second day  of  October'.  1  have noted the remarks of the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme).  I have also noted that he did not answer the arguments 1 put concerning the control exercised by the Melbourne 'Herald' over 4 television stations instead of a maximum of 2 provided for in the Act. It is all very well to confront me with what he calls facts at the moment. I would like to see the second reading stage continued so that I may have the opportunity to answer a few of his allegations in detail. I move now to the amendment. On 12th December 1969 the Postmaster-General issued a Press release stating that he would introduce legislation to apply restrictions on the number of television stations that could be controlled by one interest. Obviously there have been improper uses of employees' pension funds by the interests who had caused such funds to be set up. He said that the Government believed it was undesirable that there should be any appearance of pension funds being used to add to such interests. 
At some stage during 1969 it was realised that 2 funds associated with John Fairfax and Sons Ltd had bought a 10 per cent interest in Canberra Television Ltd, the licensee of Channel 7, Canberra's only commercial television station. The legislation introduced by the Postmaster-General intends to overcome this type of occurrence. I shall read from an article in the Journalist', the publication of the Australian Journalists Association. It states: 

 Mr Hulme said that the back dating of the amendment to 22nd October had been decided on to prevent 2 instances of what the amendment would prevent in the future. 
That is, the using of pension funds to acquire control in other television and radio stations. The article continues: 
He would not say what the instances were and said that any further comment would not be made until legislation was introduced in Parliament. 
In his second reading speech the PostmasterGeneral said: 
Honourable members will note that the new provisions will apply as from 12th December 1969. which was the date on which I announced the Government's intention to bring down this legislation. 
The Australian Labor Party would like to know why the effective date was changed from 22nd October to 12th December. We consider that some organisation must be able to escape the net if the legislation operates from 12th December and not 22nd October as first intended. If. the Postmaster-General cares to say why the legislation will now operate from 12th December 1969 and not 22nd October 1969 we will be pleased to hear his explanation. I cannot understand why the date of the release of the Press statement has anything to do with choosing 12th December. The Postmaster-General said in the Press release that the legislation would be effective from 22nd October. He is reported as saying that the reason why this legislation is to be implemented is to overcome the occurrences in the future which were mentioned in relation to John Fairfax &amp; Sons Ltd and its interest in Canberra Television Ltd. I intend to leave the matter here and commend the amendment to the House. 
asked the Minister for Defence upon notice: 
What was the total value of military equipment purchased overseas in each of the financial years 1954-55 to 1969 70 inclusive. 
What ate these figures expressed as a percentage of the total amount spent by the Defence group of departments on equipment procurement during each of those years. 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
What was the total number of personnel serving in the armed forces during the financial years 1954-55, 1959-60, 1964-65 and 1969-70. 
How many civilians were employed in the Defence, Service and other Departments to support the armed forces during those years. 
Is he able to supply an estimate of the number of civilians employed in private industry in Australia who worked directly or indirectly on military supplies during those years. 
What was the aggregate number of persons referred to in (1), (2) and (3) expressed as a percentage of the total number of workers employed in Australia during those years. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What was the total number of personnel serving in the armed forces during the financial years 1954-55, 1959-60, 1964-65 and 1969-70. 
How many civilians were employed in the Defence, Service and other Departments to support the armed forces during those years. 
Is he able to supply an estimate of the number of civilians employed in private industry in Australia who worked directly or indirectly on military supplies during those years. 
What was the aggregate number of persons referred to in (1), (2) and (3) expressed as a percentage of the total number of workers employed in Australia during those years. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. Has he considered lifting the Queensland Mines Uranium Company Ordinance to allow a reconstruction of the debt position of Mineral Securities Australia Ltd by a consortium of which Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd is a prominent financial member? Will he give an assurance to the House that under no circumstances will he allow CRA or its parent company Rio-Tinto-Zinc Corporation Ltd. Britain, or any other foreign company to secure control over the rich Nabarlek Qld Mines uranium deposit? 
Two days ago during a debate on the second reading of the Broadcasting and Television Bill the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  referred to a previous speech I had made during the second reading in relation to the ownership and control of radio and television stations in Australia. He said on that occasion that 1 had failed to comprehend the truth and challenged me to produce facts to substantiate my allegations. I accept his challenge and intend to show that in both the fields of television and broadcasting the Postmaster-General has allowed gross violations of the Broadcasting and Television Act. The Act provides that it is illegal for 1 commercial interest to control more than 2 television stations in Australia. I believe the Melbourne 'Herald' controls 4 television stations and I will expand upon what I said on 25th August last year in relation to this. 
The Melbourne 'Herald' has a full controlling interest in HSV Channel 7 Melbourne where it holds 637,505 of the total 750,005 shares in the licensee company, Herald-Sun T.V. Pty Ltd.In BTQ Channel 7 Brisbane, it holds 2.6 per cent of the shares in the licensee company Brisbane T.V. Ltd. It also holds 40.45 per cent of the shares in Queensland Press Ltd which through 2 wholly-owned subsidiaries, Telegraph Newspaper Co. Pty Ltd and Queensland Newspapers Pty Ltd, holds 27.79 per cent of the BTQ licensee company. This is 1 2.79 in excess of the 1 5 per cent laid down in the Act as a controlling interest. So its indirect interest of 27.29 per cent plus its direct interest of 2.6 per cent means that it is firmly in control of BTQ Channel 7 with a 30.39 per cent holding. 
In relation to ADS Channel 7 Adelaide, the Melbourne 'Herald' holds 30.66 per cent of the ordinary shares in Advertiser Newspapers Ltd which, through its wholly owned subsidiary Midlands Broadcasting Services Ltd, holds 40.97 per cent of the shares in the licensee company, Television Broadcasters Ltd. So here we have the Melbourne Herald' in control of yet another television station with double the specified holding laid down in the Act as control. Lastly, in relation to television stations, I will lay before the House the extent of the Melbourne Herald' interest in TVT Channel 6 Hobart. Of the equity in the licensee company, Tasmanian Television Ltd, 13.75 per cent is held by Davies Bros Ltd which is 48.18 per cent directly and 6.22 per cent indirectly owned by the Melbourne 'Herald'. Coupled with this, Davies Bros Ltd has a 50 per cent interest in Commercial Broadcasters Pty Ltd which holds a further 3.33 per cent of the licensee company. This means that the Melbourne 'Herald' has a 17.08 per cent interest in the licensee company - 2.08 per cent more than is required by the Act for effective control. 
The facts thatI have just laid out concerning these 4 television stations is an indictment of the Postmaster-General and his adviser the Broadcasting Control Board. It means they have allowed a contravention of an Act of Parliament which states that it is illegal for 1 organisation to have a controlling interest in more than 2 television stations in Australia. I have shown that the Melbourne 'Herald' controls 4 television stations and for the second time in 12 months illustrated what appears to be negligent administration of the Broadcasting and Television Act by the Postmaster-General. During the Postmaster-General's second reading speech he referred also to my allegations regarding the broadcasting interests of John Fairfax publishers of the Sydney Morning Herald'. The Broadcasting and Television. Act stipulates that it is illegal for 1 organisation to control more than 8 radio stations in Australia or more than 4 radio stations in any one State. During my previous speech I said that the Fairfax group was in contravention of this aspect of the Act. 
The Postmaster-General pointed out that I said that the Fairfax empire owns all the shares in the 2GB Sydney, 2WL Wollongong and all the ordinary shares in 2CA Canberra when, in fact, the shares were held by Macquarie Broadcasting Holdings Ltd. It is true that I said this and that the shares are held by Macquarie Broadcasting but, as he pointed out, Macquarie Broadcasting is still 26 per cent held by John Fairfax Ltd. Section 90e sub-section ( .1 ) of the Act states that a 15 per cent control over any licensee company means a controlling interest. So therefore he must realise that Fairfax controls Macquarie Broadcasting and that, in effect, what 1 had previously said still holds true. This is just an instance of the Minister splitting hairs. 
He went on to say that Macquarie Broadcasting has only a prescribed interest in the radio stations mentioned. A prescribed interest is a holding of more than 5 per cent and less than 15 per cent. Macquarie Broadcasting has not just a prescribed interest but a controlling interest in all the stations I have mentioned, it owns all the shares in 2GB Sydney, all the ordinary shares in 2CA Canberra, all the shares in 2WL Wollongong, over half the shares in 2LF Young and just on 60 per cent of the shares in 5DN Adelaide. The Postmaster-General had the audacity to (ell the Parliament that I did not know the difference between a controlling interest and a prescribed interest as defined in the Act and he has the nerve himself to tell the Parliament that the whole equity is only a prescribed and not a controlling interest. 1 do not intend to let the Fairfax question end here. In my previous speech I said John Fairfax Ltd controls 2NM Muswellbrook and 2NX Bolwarra. I will prove it again. Fairfax holds a controlling interest in Newcastle Newspapers Pty Ltd which through a wholly owned subsidiary company, Newcastle Morning Herald and Miners Advocate Pty Ltd, holds 8,314 of the 30,220 shares of the licensee company, Hunter Broadcasters Pty Ltd. This represents 27.4 per cent of the total shares, more than 12 per cent in excess of the 15 per cent stipulated by the Act as a controlling interest. So when we sum up, John Fairfax Ltd has 5 broadcasting stations in New South Wales plus one in Canberra which is viewed by the Act as being in New South Wales. Six stations in one State contravene section 90F sub-section (c) of the Act which limits the total number of radio stations to 4 for one organisation in one State. 
J have shown now that the PostmasterGeneral and the Australian Broadcasting Control Board have again displayed what appears to be further negligent administration of the Act in relation to broadcasting. If the Postmaster-General feels the conclusions 1 have drawn are wrong, 1 would like him to explain to me and to the House in the adjournment debate this evening how all these holdings that are listed in the 20th annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board do not represent contraventions of the Act. I shall leave the matter here and await the reply of the Postmaster-General. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the Government,in orderto prevent the exploitation of Australia's mineral resources by some companies searching and mining for minerals with a view to export, make it mandatory that before each company concerned secures an export licence for its mineral product, the company must first register in the Australian Capital Territory in order that the Federal Parliament may exercise control over our mineral development on  a  national basis. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the Stale school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and menially handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to- 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
In addressing my question to the Minister for Primary Industry I refer to a statement released yesterday by his colleague, the Minister for Trade and Industry, in relation to wheat sales to the United Arab Republic, the liability for which is to be covered by an Export Payments Insurance Corporation contract. I ask: What is the nature of the terms of the contract specifically, the length of repayments and interest rate on the credit extended? 
The Opposition does not oppose the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Bill, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has said. It is a reasonably simple piece of legislation. It is designed to increase the contingent liability of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation from $300m to $500m. That is the total amount for which the Corporation could become liable under its policies. The Australian Labor Party has been pleased with the performance of the Corporation since its inception in 1956 and the commencement of its operation in 1957, and it has consistently supported legislation designed to increase the contingent liability of the Corporation. EPIC, as the Corporation is known, is charged to be selfsupporting, that is, that over a period it has to operate at neither a profit nor a loss. Over the 14 years ending in June 1970, EPIC incurred operational deficits in 8 years and surpluses in 6 years. It operates on principles similar to those of any other form of insurance, inasmuch as in return for the payment of a premium an exporter can claim on EPIC in the event of non-payment by his buyer for any of the reasons set out in the policy. 
In the financial year 1969-70 - that is 12 to 13 years since its inception - EPIC has insured exports worth $343m. In the 13 years since it started, EPIC has insured policies to the tune of $l,407m. In the 10 years from 1960 to 1970 the number of policies with EPIC has grown from 127, with a face value of $53m, to 809, with a face value of $343m. I have prepared a table which summarises a number of EPIC annual reports and lists the number of policy holders from the year 1958 to 1970, the face value of the policies, the actual maximum contingency liability, the premium income, the gross claims paid, the operating costs and the operating costs as a percentage of premium income. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate that document in Hansard. It reads: 

<graphic href="072131197104293_67_6.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House for its courtesy. While I have this table before me, I wish to point out one aspect that is revealed in the figures. The operating costs in relation to the premium income of the Corporation seem to be excessively high. I do not know whether that is because EPIC provides other services. It does provide a credit service so that any Australian exporter can check the credit rating of any overseas firm that he has dealings with. I note from the table that from 1961 to 1962 the operating costs of EPIC were 87 per cent and 86 per cent of income from premiums. This figure has declined and settled at between 58 per cent and 60 per cent. That 58 per cent to 60 per cent of the income from premiums from an insurance company should be taken up by operating costs shows a situation in which operating costs are fairly high. Over the period of operation - now 14 years, I think - EPIC has built up reserves of $2.25m. 
A number of amendments to the original Bill, passed in 1956, have been made. The first amendment in 1964 was to establish a situation in which an exporter could take out a guarantee on a risk that banks in Australia would accept as security. This covered not just normal commercial or political risks but any type of risk at all. Another amendment was enacted in 1965. This related to investment insurance which was to cover other than non-commercial risks in respect of investment overseas by an Australian company. The aim of this amendment was to bring export benefits to Australia through investment overseas by Australian companies either by themselves or in a participatory role with another overseas concern. EPIC provided cover so that the Australian company would not lose its investment should the political climate change with the result that the company would suffer a loss through political circumstances. Various other amendments have been made. Most of these have been for the purpose of increasing the contingent liability ceiling. This is what the Bill now before the House seeks to do. This ceiling was increased in 1956 to $50m. In 1959 it was increased to $100m. The ceiling was raised to SI 50m in 1964. In 1965 it rose to $200m. It was increased to $300m in 1970 and now stands at $500m in 1971. As I said before the Opposition always has supported all of these changes. 
I wish to touch on another point in relation to the provisions of this Bill. In his second reading speech, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  said: 
The principal factor in this unexpectedly rapid build-up in contingent liability is the insurance of wheat export transactions. This business is entirely new - it dates only from January of this year - and the amount of contingent liability involved is very high. 
There is a certain amount of ambiguity about what that means. It is not very clear what the Minister is saying. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports asked the Minister whether he would clear the matter up. I would like to quote from the statement that the Minister released on this aspect. It refers to the question asked of him by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and then states: 
Prior to January this year, EPIC had been asked to insure only relatively minor quantities of wheat exports. However because of increasing international competition, in particular on credit terms, Australian wheat has had to be offered on terms to meet this competition. Consequently, there has been a recent substantial growth in EPIC coverage of wheat transactions. 
He goes on to say: 
The aggregate amount of the Corporation's contingent liability on wheat export transactions either insured or the subject of firm offers of insurance cover since January 1 1971 is $30.2m. 
The point that I wish to make is this: Since August of last year, a number of contracts have been entered into for the sale of wheat to the United Arab Republic. I believe from this statement that the $30.2m covers wheat sales proposed by the Australian Wheat Board under contract to the United Arab Republic. In August 1970, the Australian Wheat Board announced the signing of a contract for 36.7 million bushels of Australian wheat to be supplied per annum over a 3-year period commencing 1st July 1971. In other words, approximately 110 million bushels of wheat will be supplied in 3 years. A question was asked in August of last year of the then Minister for Primary Industry, who is now the  Deputy  Prime Minister, in relation to the conditions of sale of wheat to the United Arab Republic. The Minister replied that the terms of the sale were a deposit of 10 per cent at the time of shipment with the balance to be paid in equal yearly instalments over a 3-year period. No specific reference was made to the interest rate involved. 
Since then, an additional sale of 18.4 million bushels of wheat has been made to the UAR. This was for shipment from September 1970 to January 1971. Another additional sale of 9.2 million bushels of wheat to the UAR was made entailing shipment from September 1970 to January 1971. I presume that these 2 operations were extended on credit. I further presume from the answer given by the then Minister that no interest payment was incurred. What I would like to know is this: Why was this particular transaction not insured with EPIC? This contract is, I remind the House, to operate over a 3-year period. I would also point out to the House that the  Deputy  Prime Minister has made a statement concerning wheat sales to Communist China. We have heard from Communist China - or Red China or continental China as the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  calls it - that it proposes not to buy any more Australian wheat. Could it be that the Australian Wheat Board is extending itself to sell Australian wheat to lower the quotas for the benefit of the Australian wheatgrower and to satisfy its own problems? I think that the after-season carry over of wheat stocks last year was 265 million bushels. What seems to be happening with this legislation is that the Australian Wheat Board has gone to EPIC and has asked it to cover it for $30 million obviously extended on credit terms extending over 3 years. 
Now, what is the present situation of the UAR in the Middle East? General Moshe Dayan, the Israeli Defence Minister, said yesterday that there could easily be a resumption of war. The chances of Australia receiving payment under such conditions are very diminished. I understand further that a contract was not exactly entered into, only a memorandum of understanding was signed. 
What this means is that for a nominal premium payment the Exports Payment Insurance Corporation could be up for this $30m - and, in turn, the taxpayers purse through the Commonwealth could be up for this $30m - because this Bill has been introduced to increase the contingent liability. This is the first wheat sale to be covered by EPIC. I understand that rather than extending a 95 per cent cover EPIC has extended a cover of 60 per cent only. This is a cover amounting to approximately $20m. EPIC has left the liability for the remaining 40 per cent to the Australian wheat grower. 
In the financial year ended June 1969, the total amount received in premium payments by EPIC was $860,000. Comparing the total annual premiums of $860,000 and the reserves of $2.25m with a possible contingent liability of $18m to $20m, we see that the Corporation will be placed in a very uncomforable financial position, should the United Arab Republic find itself in a situation where it is forced to renege on the extended terms of credit, covering the sale of this wheat. 
This morning, I asked a question of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  concerning this subject. He said in reply: 
. the terms and conditions are such as to ensure that over the whole ot the context of its operations EPIC is able to maintain the very remarkable record of profitability which it has achieved since its establishment a few years ago. 
The Minister went on to say: 
I am quite sure that if it were not for the EPIC cover in this instance, it would not have been possible perhaps for the Wheat Board to have accepted the general responsibility of the terms and conditions available. 
That answer pretty well bears out what I have said. The Australian Wheat Board was not prepared to 'cop* the responsibility for this sale itself, and has loaded it on to the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. By paying a fiddling premium it can say with safety: 'If anything goes wrong, EPIC or the Commonwealth must carry the baby'. So, this Bill is before the House tonight and we are expected to 'up the ante' with respect to the contingent liability of this corporation. The Minister also said in his second reading speech that there were a number of other aspects and a number of other transactions which forced a situation where the contingent liabilities should be increased. The Opposition accepts that and that is why it supports the legislation. I consider the aspects of wheat sales is a valid one because of the situation in the Middle East and the fact that the Country Party has been caught on the hook with China and has to carry over 260 million bushels of wheat from last year. It has problems with its seats in wheat growing areas. If it goes to the people within the next 12 months it could lose seats like Gwydir and other marginal Country Party seats. The Government has to get the wheat off its hands; it wants to sell it to the United Arab Republic. It does not really trust the UAR. It says: 'Give us an Export Payments Insurance Corporation policy and we will let the Commonwealth cany the baby.' This seems to me to be a pretty feasible summation of the situation and this is the way the Parliament should view it. 
I leave the subject of wheat on that point and deal now more in a general sense with the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. When similar legislation was introduced in this Parliament last year to increase a contingent liability the then  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry,  Sir John  McEwen, who introduced the original Bill in 1956, was quite frank in his second reading speech. I would like to read it to the House because it is quite an eye-opener. He said: 
The birth of EPIC was delayed many years - at least 4 - by the barrage of criticism and opposition raised against it from inside and outside government. Interests representing private institutions such as banks, insurance companies, associations and elements even within the governmental structure, attacked, criticised and blocked the provision of this new facility by a government corporation for at least 4 years. 
He went on to say: 
I was told with monotonous regularity and with singular unanimity by the opponents of the  facility that there was no need for it - worthwhile and soundly based Australian exports should need no assistance of the type other countries had; it would merely provide at government expense a hidden subsidy to prop up 'lame duck' export ventures; it could not possibly work - the premiums would be too high, the losses too great, and exporters would prefer to take their own risk; it was a duplication of existing banking and insurance facilities which were willing and able to afford all the assistance needed; such a corporation was a Socialist conception and an unwarranted intrusion by government into private business; such a corporation would provide unfair competition to private enterprise institutions, and so on. 
What  Sir John  McEwen was saying was that the opposition to this legislation came from sections of the Liberal Party, his partner in the coalition, and other people within the business world of Australia. The point I would like to make is that so many forms of insurance bear upon our exports. If the Government is to sing the praises of the Corporation whenever it introduces legisation into this House concerning EPIC, why does it not allow the Corporation to get into other forms of insurance, such as marine insurance? In reply to a question asked by  Senator Mulvihill  some years ago, the Minister in the Senate representing the Minister for Trade and Industry gave a figure of $26. 5m as the total marine insurance premium for the year 1966-67. The Export Payments Insurance Corporation's premiums amount to only $860,000. I would not mind seeing the Corporation get a slice of the $26.5m marine insurance cake when we consider that most of the companies operating in marine insurance in Australia are British or companies from other overseas countries. 
It is not just a matter of getting business for Australia. It means also that very considerable savings will be effected in our balance of payments through reduced remittance of profits overseas. I would like to see the Corporation get into this business. When we look at the type- of insurance that the Corporation was to take on, and I will cover the categories basically, we find that they included buyer risks of insolvency, protracted default in repayment, repudiation of contracts, political risks such as import licensing restrictions, exchange transfer blockages, wars and revolutions and catastrophic risks caused by external events beyond the control of both exporter and buyer which are not normally insured by commercial insurers. No commercial insur ance company in Australia would have taken on insurance with those risks. Such companies had a dog in the manger attitude. They were not prepared to accept those forms of insurance themselves yet they did not want the Government to set up an organisation that would, because they feared it would eventually get into other fields of insurance like marine insurance. If the Export Payments Insurance Corporation has to carry the baby with this unpalatable type of insurance why does the Government not give exporters in this country some assistance by allowing the Corporation to move into marine insurance. With the reduction in premiums that the Corporation has been able to give, far cheaper marine insurance could have been available to our exporters during the 14 years the Corporation has been in operation under this legislation. 
In the few minutes I have left 1 would like to touch briefly upon the subject referred to by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. What Australia needs is a complete export development corporation which covers 3 things. They are the aspects covered by the Export Payments Insurance Corporation, marine insurance and an export credit facility, which is something that is very sadly lacking. Last year in the House I asked the then  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry this question: 
Will the Government set up an export credit facility to provide finance at better than commercial terms to assist the export sales of Australian manufactured military equipment and other high value commercial exports. 
He replied: 
It is true that lower interest rates are provided by the governments of some countries that are competitive with us. It is quite clear that certain governments from time to time seek to give their exporters a competitive advantage by providing funds at lower interest rates. I have never felt that this Government could engage in an interest rate war in these circumstances. 
In other words, he was saying that we are denying our exporters cheap rates of interest and extended terms of credit when they have to go into other markets and compete not with their products but with the terms of credit that they can offer. 
He gave no reason, obviously because his attitude is indefensible. We see a typical thing occurring with the possible sale of Macchi aircraft to New Zealand and Singapore. The Australian aircraft industry here tried to sell the Macchi aircraft and faced competition from Britain and Germany, both of which offered their aircraft with the backing of export credit banks. What chance do our exporters have in offering products to countries overseas when we are offering credit terms at normal bank overdraft rates of 7½ per cent interest, 50 per cent down payment and 2 or 3 years repayments. No-one in the world would come at those terms. It is time we developed an export development corporation to cover the things normally covered by the Export Payments Insurance Corporation, also a marine insurance facility and also to supply credit at extended terms and at reasonable rates of interest - 41 per cent to 5 per cent. Unless we do that we have no chance of developing our exports and we can forget about developing secondary manufactures. Unless we offer extended terms of credit as decent interest rates we cannot sell products overseas. To summarise, the Opposition supports the legislation for the reasons I have outlined. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned employees of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth that the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act is inadequate inasmuch as it fails to: 
Provide for no loss of wages for an employee on compensation. 
Compensate for all illness or injuries arising during employment. 
Provide for fair and open judgment of compensation claims. 
Remove many other existing anomalies. 
We further submit the amendments already proposed by the Government would do little or nothing to improve the Act. Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will respond to our plea for more enlightened legislation and act to make the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act a most beneficial piece of legislation in this field. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I second the motion. I concur with the sentiments expressed- by the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan). 
It gives me very much pleasure to support the Opposition on this matter of public importance and to say a few kindly words about the Fill aircraft and the tragic saga that it has been for this Parliament and the people of Australia since 1963. Basically it. was purchased as a cynical vote-catching decision taken by the Menzies Government to capitalise upon the Australian Labor Party's opposition to the establishment of the North West Cape United States Communication base in Western Australia. To make the 1963 election an election on the question of defence,  Sir Robert  Menzies hastily raced in to purchase the Fill on the advice of the Royal Australian Air Force. The evaluation period by the RAAF would not have extended beyond 3 months. We went into a contract that so far has cost us $230m for the aircraft, $3 1.4m for ground support facilities and an additional $10m for aircrew training. 
The aircraft does not meet the specifications which were laid down when we originally ordered it. The design is unsound, and the aircraft has just suffered its eighteenth crash in its short period of life since it became operational in the United States Air Force about 1965. The Opposition has raised this matter to illustrate the dilemma which is facing the Parliament and to point out that the defence preparedness of this country has been hampered severely by the fact that the delivery of our most strategic weapon, a strike bomber, has been delayed for so long. A period of 11 years will elapse between when the aircraft was ordered and when it will be delivered in 1974. In a major statement to this Parliament last year, the then Minister for Defence,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, virtually apologised for the hash the Government had made of the Fill project. He completely exposed the realities of the purchase and virtually denounced the previous Ministers for Defence - Athol Townley,  Sir Shane  Paltridge and  Sir Allen  Fairhall. He was not going to take the blame for the stupid decisions they had made since 1963 in continuing the purchase of this aircraft. 
The whole fiasco is symptomatic of the Government's cavalier approach to defence. The Liberal approach is for the Government to put its hand in the Treasury purse, pull out a great fat cheque, go to any country in the world that can offer us equipment and, whether it suits Australia's needs or not, buy it, and then say to the Australian people: 'We are looking after your defence'. This is the root cause of the problem. The Government is selecting military equipment without first ascertaining the effectiveness of the equipment or whether it suits our requirements. In relation to the role of the Fill, the former Minister for Defence said: 
The Fill has a prime requirement of being a strategic deterrent, a long range bomber whose mere presence in Australia would ward off aggressors. 
The Fill is a strategic strike bomber. It was primarily designed to have an operational radius of some 2,000 miles and a dash capability at supersonic speeds of 230 miles, which meant that with its ground tracking radar it could travel under enemy radar and place an atomic bomb in a strategic position. That is the real role for the plane. We are not even in a position to utilise it for this purpose. We intend to use the Fill, with all its sophistication, to drop iron bombs - the sort of bombs that can be dropped from B52s which we can still purchase from the United States Air Force for a song. We have on order a Rolls-Royce to do a job on a T model Ford would be able to do. This is the true position. 
I come back now to the performance of the aircraft and compare its capabilities with the features outlined in the specification at the time of order. I would like to go over a few of the specifications. The range was supposed to be 4,180 miles; it is now 2,750 miles. The speed at high altitude was supposed to be 2.5 mach; it is now 2.2 mach. The supersonic dash capability, which is its real strength as a terrain tracking aircraft to drop a nuclear weapon under enemy radar, was supposed to be 210 miles; it is now limited to a mere 30 miles. Its take-off distance was 2,780 feet originally, which is reasonably short and quite an advantage for a military aircraft when operating on unprepared fields; it is now 3,550 feet. Its take-off weight has increased by 20 per cent. It was originally intended to be 69,122 lb; it is now 82,500 lb. The cost escalated from the original estimate of $3m per unit to $12m to $ 15m per unit, and the aircraft will not become operational for 11 years. What sort of a government would enter into an open-ended contract with no limit on the research and development costs or the unit costs, and sign a memorandum of understanding for an aircraft like this? 
Yes, it was political. Basically the aircraft was bought as a political ploy rather than to meet the requirement of our armed forces. The Royal Australian Air Force says that it is the best plane in the world. It is the best plane in the western world at the moment for a particular job but when one compares it with the Russian Foxbat - the aircraft which the Russians now have operational and are supplying to the Egyptians, with a speed of about 2.5 mach it is only just comparable. But for our situation the Fill is vastly inadequate. It has a range radius of 900 miles with a dash capability of 30 miles. Where does 900 miles from Amberley take us? It takes up out into the Coral Sea and back. That is about its limit. Honourable members on the Government side have said: You cannot criticise the Government. We bought an aeroplane and we were not to know the problems that were to eventuate.' 
When one analyses the situation, it is clear that the main problem that has been encountered with the structure of the aircraft has been the wing carry through box which is constructed of D6AC steel, a new type of steel which the General Dynamics company has incorporated in the Fill in preference to duralium, titanium or aluminium alloys. There has been absolutely no testing of the fatigue characteristics of D6AC steel in the wing carry through box of the Fill. The only testing that has taken place in this respect took place at our own Aeronautical Research Laboratories at fishermen's Bend. The Laboratories are part of our Department of Supply. The General Dynamics company was aghast at the technological capacity and know-how of our people in relation to fatigue and structural testing. It may be as well to remind the House that in relation to the whole aspect of fatigue testing of materials, air frames and wing structures of aircraft, the specifications and criteria for testing were laid down by the Aeronautical Research Laboratories when it was testing aircraft which became redundant after the war. These testing criteria are universally standard. 
I saw the wing carry through box being tested at the Aeronautical Research Laboratories at Fishermen's Bend. A special jig was made up to test the strength, tautness and capacity of the material to withstand fracture. But the D6AC steel continues to have these hairline cracks appear throughout the section. All Fill aircraft have the wing carry through box and all the boxes are fabricated from D6AC steel. They will continue to crack under normal circumstances and the aircraft will continue to crash. So where is this Government left? Will it go to the extra expense of changing the whole construction of the aircraft and take out the existing material in the wing carry through box and replace it with aluminium alloys or other suitable material? Or will it do what the previous Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said, namely, consider the options to get out of the FI 11 contract? That will cost $150m because the United States will buy back our 24 Fills for $150m. A comparable replacement of 40 Phantoms and 8 reconnaissance aircraft will cost $414m. Add to this the $150m the Government would lose on the FI 1 1 and we have a total of $560m. So the replacement of the Fill with 40 strike aircraft - the Phantom, which is now becoming a superseded aircraft - seems to be the only option we have left. It would cost $560m, and the Government says that we should not be raising such matters as matters of public importance. It would squander $560m, but it gives the pensioners only 50c. We are talking about half a billion dollars. 
Let us look at the only other replacements there are. The McDonnell-Douglas F15 is worth about $11.5m. The only aircraft that looks like coming on the market is the Panavia multi-role combat aircraft, the development of which is a joint project of the United Kingdom, Italy, France and Germany. The project appears to be producing an aircraft with a greater air superiority than the FI 1 1 - and at one-third of the original cost, that is, $1.5m each. This may be the only way we can get out of our predicament. The Government talks about Australia's defence, but we have not had a defence debate in the House since the major statement in March last year. Even then there was not a debate and now the statement has been taken off the notice paper. We have ordered 24 planes that are not worth a cracker for our purposes and the Government has the hide to say that it is the Party that cares about defence. This Government foolishly got us into an open-ended contract by buying an expensive military aircraft which does not suit our needs and which has structural defects. There is no ceiling on the costs of the aircraft and there are no penalty provisions on the manufacturer in relation to performance or lack of performance. Australia's Liberal-Country Party Government bought in haste and this country has to repent at leisure. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
What percentage of aged residents in hostels in (a) the Commonwealth and (b) each of the States are receiving the $5 per week personal care subsidy. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Services, upon notice: 
What is the total number of hostel beds for the aged in (a) the Commonwealth and (b) each of the States. 
How many of these beds are (a) privately owned, (b) voluntarily (charitable and religious) owned, and (c) State owned. 
What are these figures expressed as a percentage of the total number of beds in (a) the Commonwealth and (b) each of the States. 
What is the annual growth rate by which the total number of hostel beds for the aged is increasing in (a) the Commonwealth and (b) each of the States. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
What was the total cost of the research, development and prototype production of the IKARA anti-submarine missile system, including feasibility studies and associated administrative costs. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What specific criteria are laid down by the Commonwealth to determine whether the medical condition of a person warrants the paying to a nursing home proprietor of (a) $2 per day nursing home benefit, (b) additional supplementary benefit for intensive care of $3 per day and (c) additional supplementary benefit for rehabilitation of$3 per day. 
asked the Minister represent  ing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What amount has been paid by the Commonwealth in subsidies to nursing home proprietorsin respect of the (a) $2 per day nursing home benefit and (b) $3 per day additional supplementary benefit in each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon noitce: 
What is the total number of nursing home beds in (a) the Commonwealth and (b) each of the States. 
How many of these beds are (a) privately owned, (b) voluntarily (charitable and religious) owned and (c) State owned. 
What are these figures expressed as a percentage of the total number of beds in (a) the Commonwealth and (b) each of the States. 
What is the annual growth rate by which the total number of beds is increasing in (a) the Commonwealth and (b) each of the States. 
asked the Minister for Defence upon notice: 
What was the total value of military equipment purchased overseas in each of the financial years 1954-55 to 1969-70 inclusive. 
What are these figures expressed as a percentage of the total amount spent by the Defence group of departments on equipment procurement during each of those years. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - 
Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Increase in the maintenance allowance for students. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Commonwealth medical inspectors decide whether the medical condition of  a  patient warrants the paying of the $2 per day bed subsidy to  a  nursing home proprietor? 
If so, what specific training and qualifications do these inspectors have in geriatrics? 
How many of these inspectors are there in each State? 
1 refer the Prime Minister to the policy enunciated by the former Minister for Defence during a speech at the Imperial Service Club at Sydney on 18 June when he advocated a fortress Australia policy for Australia's defence similar to the defence policy of the Australian Labor Party. 1 ask: Is the policy outlined by the former Minister on that occasion the policy of the Government? To what extent did this speech bear upon the decision to remove the right honourable gentleman from the Defence portfolio? 
I move: 
That so much of Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent my moving that the matter of the distribution of questions be referred to the Standing Orders Committee. 
My reason for doing this arises from the decision of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  last week to appoint in this House 5 Assistant Ministers. 
-I move: 
That the question be now put. 
This is to enable the House to dispose of the amendment. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! Does the honourable member wish to move that the question be now put? 
In relation to the amendment, yes. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be inserted  (Mr  Bryant's amendment) be so inserted. 
I basically support the recommendation brought down by the Standing Orders Committee. ] seconded the amendment moved by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  because I think it has some merit. I think it is fair to say that the new system we adopted - the 4-day system meeting in 2 consecutive weeks - has proven to be ineffectual inasmuch as honourable members do not stay in Canberra over the Saturday and Sunday. In fact, it makes it much more difficult to get back to your home over the weekend. Coupled with this is the situation that arises whereby it is impossible for members to return to their electoral offices to deal with electoral work for a period of 12 days. Coming to Canberra on the Tuesday returning home on the Friday, leaving again first thing on the Monday morning of the next week and staying in Canberra until leaving on Thursday evening or Friday morning means that honourable members are away from their electoral offices for 12 days. Therefore, I prefer to return to the old system. In the first place I voted to retain the old system. 
The proposal advanced by the honourable member for Banks is basically this: Most honourable members are in Canberra on the Tuesday morning some time after °a.m. It would not be too difficult for honourable members from the closer capital cities - Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide - to be here by 10.30 a.m. Most honourable members from the far flung areas are here in Canberra the night before, anyway. Therefore, it would be possible for the House to meet at 10.30 a.m. on the Tuesday, in which case the House would have  2i  hours of business, before the luncheon adjournment at 1 p.m. That 24 hours could be well compensated for by the House rising at 6 p.m. on the Thursday allowing honourable members who live in the closer capital cities to return to their homes on the Thursday evening and for those honourable members who come from Perth, parts of north Queensland and other outlying areas who normally stay overnight anyway, to return home at the normal time. This system does have the advantage of 2) hours compensation either way- If the House meets on Thursday evening the dinner adjournment is from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m., and the House rarely sits beyond 10.30 p.m. which means that effectively there is only  2i  hours debating time after the dinner recess on Thursday. I think it would be beneficial for many honourable members to be back in their homes on Thursday evenings. This would bring about a situation where they were away from their families on only Tuesday evening and Wednesday evening and would be back in their offices first thing Friday morning. I think every honourable member is aware of the fact that having to pack one's bag, checking out of hotels, getting on planes and getting back to one's electoral office at midday Friday leaves most honourable members reasonably tired. Therefore, it is difficult for them to give their time for the rest of Friday afternoon to constituents. But if they were in their homes on Thursday evening in most cases they would be able to have a night's sleep, even if they arrived home late Thursday evening, and be fresh on the Friday to see their constituents. Such an arrangement would allow for honourable members to be in their electorate offices on Mondays and Fridays. I think this is important. I do not mind coming to Canberra for an extra week or for any extra weeks, but 1 think this system of being locked up in this political incubator for 5 days in 2 consecutive weeks is too much for most honourable members to stand. I think everyone has expressed the opinion that wandering around the corridors and being in the House for debates for so many hours in one week is too much. It leaves most people fairly dull by the end of the week. The other system which is now proposed with the amendment moved by the honourable member for Banks, which 1 hope will be carried, would allow for as much discussion and for the House to debate as many issues as it does under this system and allow honourable members to remain home for an extra night during the week. 
It would allow some members, but those honourable members who live further away than most of the capital cities, generally leave the night before anyway, and return home the morning afterwards. So I do nol think they are inconvenienced. Therefore, 1 support the amendment. 
I address a question to the Minister for Supply. Will the Government consider having the design of the Government Aircraft Factories Ikara antisubmarine missile system adapted to a surface to surface missile system employing the same handling and guidance systems for use on Australian naval vessels constructed in the future? Would such an adaptation be relatively simple and provide an alternative to the expensive surface to surface missile systems normally acquired from the United States and also provide a vital work load for Australia's declining aircraft industry? Was such an adaptation proposed to the Government 3 years ago and was no action taken upon it? If this is so, will the Minister inform the House why the proposal was rejected? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does the Commonwealth Statistician have statistics relating to the various categories of marine insurance underwritten by companies in Australia which he has refused to make available for the information of the Parliament. 
If so, will he give directions that the information is to be made available to any member on request. 
If not, why not. 
asked the Minister- representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many occupied nursing home beds are at present attracting the $2 per day nursing home benefit in (a) the Commonwealth and (b) each of the States. 
What are these figures expressed as a percentage of the total number of nursing home beds in (a) the Commonwealth and (b) each of the States. 
How many occupied nursing home beds are at present attracting the S3 per day, intensive care subsidy in (a) the Commonwealth and (b) each of the States. 
What are these figures expressed as a percentage of the total number of nursing home beds in (a) the Commonwealth and (b) each of the States. 
I was not inclined to speak in this debate but last night I listened to the fallacious statements of many Government members, and I have just listened to a few from the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin).  On the basis of these statements I decided to speak in the debate. The Bill basically is an amendment to the National Service Act io reduce (lie period of military service for national servicemen in Australia from 2 years to 18 months. The House will recall that the original legislation was introduced in 1964 to raise the strength of the Army from 23,000 people to a level that would suffice for service by the Australian military forces in Vietnam. To date 51,000 national servicemen have been called up to fulfil, as the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  says, our role in national defence. 1 would like to examine the question of national defence in relation to the call-up. The national defence the Minister speaks of is the Australian commitment to Vietnam. When, with Australia on a peacetime footing, hundreds of Australian boys have had their lives dislocated and 300 young men have died in an undeclared war, because the Australian Government offered to support various regimes in South Vietnam that purported to be governments we have a very serious position indeed. It was revealed in this House a couple of weeks ago that the only correspondence from the South Vietnamese Government which led to our involvement in Vietnam was an acceptance of the Australian offer of military assistance. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said that Australia's offer had been made after negotiations with the South Vietnamese Government, but that is pure conjecture. I think everyone would believe that the Australian Government offered assistance to the regimes of South Vietnam after pressure from the American Johnson Administration.  : lal are we fighting for in Vietnam? Are we fighting for a free democracy as opposed to the authoritarian regime of a Communist-imposed dictatorship? For what have we been fighting for 7 years? I think everyone is aware of the fact that  President  Thieu rushed through a constitutional amendment that virtually forced every other candidate for the presidency of South Vietnam out of the field. Because it appeared too rough  President  Nixon recalled Ambassador Bunker for quick consultations on the matter. Bunker returned to Saigon and screwed Thieu's arm to take steps so there would at least appear to be a semblance of democracy. Thieu apparently has sway over the Supreme Court of South Vietnam. As a result of a Supreme Court decision Ky" name was put back on the ballot paper, but then Ky said: 'What is the point of going on with the thing? I cannot win anyway.' This is the Government we have been defending. After 7 years this is what we are left with - one man manipulating the constitution of the South Vietnamese nation and the Supreme Court of South Vietnam. This is what we have been fighting for. For this the guilty men who sit opposite have sent 300 Australian boys to their death. We have just had a debate in which it was made known the times when we will withdraw our forces from Vietnam. We will probably find that the figure of 300 deaths will have increased by the time all Australian troops are withdrawn. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for Labour and National Service said: 
The Labor Party's attitude is one of rigidity. It is therefore inadequate, and this is one of the lessons of history. 
What are the lessons of history in relation to the Labor Party and Australia's defence? On 2 occasions, in 2 major wars, the Australian people have called the Labor Party to the treasury bench of this Parliament to defend Australia. The Government of  Sir Robert  Menzies, and the Lyons Government prior to that, had let Australian defence industries and defence Services run down to such an extent that the Labor Party had to come to the assistance of the country and had to very quickly upgrade our defence forces to meet the Japanese threat. So the Labor Party's record on defence is solid gold and always has been, and honourable members Opposite know it. 
This whole national service debate hinges around Australia's defence. This Government has never had a consistent and continuous defence policy. In the 2 years I have been a member of this Parliament there has been no debate on Australia's defence. A major Government statement on defence was made on 10th March 1970 by the Honourable Malcolm Fraser, who was then the Minister for Defence. There was never any debate on this statement. Six months later in the dead of the night, like a cat burglar, the present Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  when he was the Leader of the House, came into the House and tried to have this matter removed from the notice paper. Fortunately the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  and I prevented that from happening. But he got us. Six months later it was gone. He caught us. So there was no debate on this major statement. When we look at the consistency of the Government's policy we see that the Government is just not credible on the subject of defence. The Honourable Malcolm Fraser, when he was the Minister for Defence, said this - and this is basically the Government's defence approach: 
We reject the concept of detachment. 
He was having a poke at the Labor Party's defence policies. He added: 
We accept the risks and opportunities of involvement . . . because we believe isolation would lead to greater risks both for the region and for Australia. We do  not  believe there is any security in isolation. 
He subsequently resigned his portfolio and was followed as Minister for Defence by the right honourable John Gorton. On the same subject, in a speech he made as Minister for Defence to the Australian Imperial Services Club, he said this about Australia's defence: 
As  1  see the concept - 
He was talking about Fortress Australia, whereas his predecessor had been talking about forward defence -  it is not one of retiring behind the moat of the oceans which surround us: There to wash our hands of responsibility for what happens outside our continental limits. It is not a concept of isolationism. For such a concept would indeed badly serve the future defence of Australia. Rather it is the realisation that any operations in areas outside Australia require that Australia itself should be a secure base, firmly defended, from which such operations can be mounted and sustained . . . And the Australian continent is, in the ultimate, the only firm and enduring base  ob  which we can rely. Should we not therefore regard the provision of strong defences for that base, for Australia, as the primary but by no means the only task for our defence. I think we should. 
What a great Government! What a consistent Government! One Minister for Defence says we must have forward defence and that we should forget the Fortress Australia approach. He said: 'Do not worry about the base here.' Then the next Minister for Defence said: 'The forward defence concept is out. What we need is a strong Australian defence base'. So there is absolutely no continuity in policy. What does the present Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  the man to whom the former Prime Minister referred as being pedestrian, say? What has the pedestrian Minister had to say about defence? The Parliament has not been told of his personal attitude to Australia's defence. Over 24 years this Government has guided the defence capacity of Australia on an ad hoc basis. There has been absolutely no planning. 
I think it is fair to say that the basic requirement of any defence capability is an independent industrial capability. Today war is a clash of rival technologies, and if a country is not technologically competent it is not able to defend itself. This Government has neglected all its defence industries. Basically this has come about because there has been no government defence policy. None of the Services has been able to foresee its hardware requirements because there has been no consistent defence policy whereby it could tailor its hardware requirements for a particular role. Therefore we have seen all our defence industries decreasing in manpower and technological skill. 
I would like to refer to a statement made by a former Secretary of the Department of Defence,  Sir Henry  Bland, who on leaving the Department spoke about the way in which Australia selects defence equipment. I do not think that this statement has ever been read in this House. I think it should be recorded in Hansard. It is quite lengthy but it is worth recording. He said: 
As is well known, compatibility of weapons and equipment with those of the USA has been a cardinal principle of Australian defence policy for some time. There is room for wondering whether habit has led this policy to be interpreted to Australia's long term disadvantage. 
He went on to say- 
If the USA is to continue to be the principal determinent of our compatibility policy, we are, unless we are careful, committing ourselves to equipment which is almost invariably complex because it tends to be an element of a more comprehensive integrated system and so to maintain our  compatability,  we are led to more complexities and we are committing ourselves to equipment which is likely, to be designed for theatres of war and operations in which we are unlikely to be engaged and to equipment which is inevitably horribly costly. 
The emphasis has been towards highly sophisticated weaponry, 1 suggest we should turn our eye in the direction of less sophisticated weaponry. If we can surmount this mental block the projection of these possibilities would add immensely to the importance of the new machinery for industry's connection with defence administration and policy, lt would offer unique scope for defence to foster a real burgeoning of research and technology, in Australia. 
What he is virtually saying is that all of our Service requirements and the equipment that we have acquired for our Services have been based on the wrong premise. They have been based on the Menzies theory that the United States of America will always come to our military assistance. In view of the realities of the Nixon Doctrine we have to realise that we must stand on our own two feet. This requires us to develop our defence industries to the point where we can keep the equipment of our Services in a condition where they can compete with any other nation which may turn out to be an aggressor. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he was Minister for Defence, said: 
We could not design, develop and produce the various guided weapons and aircraft our forces needed. 
This is what he told a Liberal Party luncheon in Brisbane on 20th July and it is reported in the 'Australian'. That is the attitude of the Government towards our defence industries. 
Let us have a look at the defence equipment this Government has selected. As we all know the Fill aircraft was ordered in 1963 but it still has not been delivered and it is now 1971. The performance of this aircraft has failed to meet in any way the specifications originally laid down for it. Look at the Royal Australian Navy. The Government purchased DDG destroyers, worth about $50m or S60m each. Their primary role is to protect our aircraft carrier, which has a maximum speed of 21 knots and at that speed it could not keep up with merchant vessels. We now find that there has been great celebration in the RAN because the old aircraft carrier has just been refitted and we are buying extra Skyhawk aircraft to equip it. Everyone in this Parliament knows that we can never replace HMAS 'Melbourne' with  a  new aircraft carrier of 50,000 tons or anything that is regarded as an optimum size for our purposes because of the cost involved. Let us have a look at the DDL destroyer. It is a light destroyer the Navy had designed as a multi-role vessel. 1 think it started off at somewhere about 2,500 tons to 3,000 tons. Its size has escalated to 4,000 tons. Originally it had a unit cost of $18m but it is now up to $40m or $50m. Word has it that because of the escalation of costs our magnificent Government has decided it may not be best to build it in Australia because it is too expensive and the order for construction might have to go overseas. Again our defence industries - shipbuilding, electronics and aircraft industries in relation to weaponry - will be the losers in the event of such a decision. 
The whole premise on which equipment was selected for our Navy led to the purchase of aircraft carriers. DDG destroyers to protect them and now DDL destroyers at 4,000 tons. The original order was to be for 6 DDL destroyers with a possibility of 24 being built. One has to consider the stupidity of such an approach in view of the massive coastline of Australia. Why are we not looking at fast patrol boats with nonplaning hulls with a dash capacity of 60 knots, perhaps with an endurance of 3,000 miles and supplied with weaponry developed by the Australian aircraft industry? 
I address my question to the Minister for the Navy. I refer him to the DDL light destroyer development for the Royal Australian Navy and the projected cost escalation from the original $18m per vessel to a figure approaching $40m to $50m per copy. In view of the escalation of the assessed cost of the construction I ask: Has the Government made provision for the allocation of funds in the rolling Naval defence budget for the construction of the vessels in 1973-74? Secondly, will the Minister assure the House that the vessels will definitely be designed and constructed in Australia as planned? 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Has a proposal been placed before the Government to extend the existing $2 per day nursing home benefit to approved organisations providing hostel accommodation for the aged. 
If so, has the proposal been accepted. 
If not, why not. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. He will be aware that delay in proceeding with the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill has been criticised by members of his own Party as a disgrace and  a  breach of an important policy promise to the electorate. Since he now proposes to raise with the Leader of the House the date on which the Government should proceed with the Bill, should the House understand that he will also immediately initiate the Party room and Cabinet discussion of it which he told the honourable member for Dawson on J 6th March would be held before anything further is done? 
I should like to take this opportunity to say something in this House about events in Northern Ireland. To this point of time, not a word has been uttered in the House concerning this issue. All honourable members would have been shocked and saddened by the deaths of seven people today at the hands of Irish Republican Army terrorists at Aldershot in England and by the shooting of 13 civilians during a civil rights demonstration in Derry on 29th January. We would all be aware of the deep concern in the Australian community at these tragic and appalling events. 1 believe that the Australian Parliament cannot ignore this escalating violence. I believe the Parliament must press for a peaceful settlement and the kind of social and political reforms in Ulster that will end forever the horror of recent Irish history. 
How many more deaths must there be before the Australian Government feels compelled to use its good offices with the Governments of both the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland to promote, on behalf of the friends of both countries,  a  representative constitutional convention charged with the task of formulating a political settlement. It must be a settlement to guarantee justice and equality to all the people in the unhappy province of Ulster. The horrific massacre at Derry made only too clear that British policy in Ulster is in shambles. The British Army has not preserved law and order; it is not preventing civil war. Already people are referring to Northern Ireland as 'Britain's Vietnam'. To the majority of people in Ulster and Eire the British Army has become a tool for the unjust status quo in Ulster. This status quo has, for SO years, guaranteed the political exclusion and under-representation of over a third of the populace. It has condemned them to a ghetto existence of slum housing, job shortages, poor education and social discrimination. They seek change, they seek reform but are stultified by the gerrymandered political system. They are condemned to live as outcasts in their own country. The repression is made even more real to them by the existence of a brutally biased police force and the policy of internment without trial. 
As we all know, violence begets violence, and when it becomes institutionalised as a way of life the oppressed regard it as the only means of political change. The bombings and shootings will go on unless Stormont can show the Catholics and the world that it will eliminate injustice and share its power with the minority. Only by tying the continued British presence to a programme of political and social reform in Ulster will Britain make a contribution to peace. This is the only way it will show that it is no longer propping up the British settlement of Ireland as finalised in 1922, with all its calamitous aftermath. Friends of Britain and Ireland must remind the British Government that this is no longer a matter for Britain alone. The speeches in the United Nations and the sacking of the British Embassy in Dublin have put an end to that notion forever. British policy is bankrupt and the British Government must heed the advice of its friends. A new Irish policy for Britain must be constructed without the prejudices and stupidities of the past. There are 15,000 British troops in Ulster organised into regiments bearing the names of those in Ireland in 1916. This is not the atmosphere in which to build a new era of community relations and civil peace. 
The only viable settlement in Ireland is one that will guarantee a new deal for the Catholics of Ulster. This means equality in the Stormont Cabinet, in the civil service and the police force. It means a just allocation of community services, such as housing and education. It means a fair system of local government without gerrymanders and with representative control. In short, the majority of Ulstermen cannot continue to see themselves as representatives of the conquerors of 1688 and, in turn, their Catholic brethren as the descendants of the conquered, to be trampled underfoot. Equal participation in a political system striving to achieve social justice can be the only objective of a new Ulster settlement. I can only hope that the representatives of the other parties in this Parliament will also plead for such a settlement for Ulster. To date, the Government has ignored this important question. Even the Democratic Labor Party, with such a predominance of Irish names among its membership, has been amazingly silent on the great issue of Ireland. 
In conclusion I should like to draw the attention of the House to a recent incident in Ireland. The House will remember that a bus driver in Ulster was murdered by IRA terrorists. It will also remember that thousands of Catholics and Protestants were united In sorrow and that they expressed this by marching together at his funeral. This was a symbolic expression of a desire for peace and a revulsion of bloodshed and violence. It is in this spirit that a settlement of Ulster's problems must take place. I again ask the Parliament and the Government to exert every influence on the British Government to bring communal peace to one of the world's most tormented lands. 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of certain citizens ef the Commonwealth respectfully shows that there are still many refugees in India in urgent need of aid. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government immediately increase Australia's contribution for refugee relief in Bangla Desh by $10 million and take action so that the refugees may return to their homes. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I would like to say a few words on this matter of public importance. I do not think that the Government has answered the Opposition's case at all. The basic factor that emerges from the debate is that there has been no planning for the Australian aircraft industry. This stems from a lack of a consistent defence policy. It has been difficult for the Service departments to set down requirements for equipment when the Government has not been able to provide them with a consistent defence policy. For years we have seen the industry in a state of peaks and troughs. At the moment it is in one of its most serious troughs. The Hawker de Havilland establishment at Bankstown, which is in my electorate, is facing a serious problem with its work load. If it does not improve in the next few months there may be retrenchments. This is the case throughout the whole industry. 
Not only is there a problem with actual retrenchments of men and reduced work load but also there is a real problem that Australia has to face on top of those matters and that is the loss of technology, the loss of design staff and inadequate tooling in these factories. The specialist technology on plastics and metallurgy is going right past the Australian aircraft industry because there is not a work load to sustain development in these things. With tooling there should have been a switch across to digital computer machine operated tooling equipment. I think that there have been only 2 additions of this type of plant to the major elements of the industry in Melbourne and the rest of it has just been turret lathes and this type of equipment. With this equipment we can never be competitive and we find that with offsets we will become less attractive to overseas industries because we will not have the capacity to take on the work they may offer. 
I find myself in complete agreement with the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  who said that the Government has done nothing whatsoever to try to stimulate offsets, considering that there were massive orders placed with overseas aircraft industries for civil and military projects. There has been no insistence by the Government that there should be a fixed percentage of this. The Government has not even insisted that the industry in Australia should manufacture all high rate usage spares. There has never been a policy in line with that. At the moment the only bright star on the horizon for the aircraft industry looks like being Project N. As we have become aware, Project N is now bogged down in a dispute between 2 Service departments, the Army and the Royal Australian Air Force. Even if everything were moving smoothly in the defence group of departments for Project N, to become a viable proposition the aircraft must be able to be sold on a commercial basis, lt has already been mentioned during this debate that this is impossible unless finance is offered at rates of interest better than normal overdraft rates, rates resembling those offered by the Export-Import Bank. Unless the Government is prepared to offer finance at better than commercial terms on high value transactions for military produce or otherwise, we will never be able to sell Project N or any other aircraft like it. 
There is now a possibility that the Australian aircraft industry can get in on the replacement for the Macchi aircraft. But it is well to remember that the Australian aircraft industry designed an aircraft that would have been able to do the job that the Macchi is doing but because of the fact that the Service departments were not kicked into line and told they had to bring down their requirement in time, the Australian aircraft industry was unable to get into the design and manufacture of the aircraft that was selected, which, as honourable members know, was the Macchi. Admittedly it was made here under licence, but Australia lost the design staff who wanted to take part in the designing of the aircraft and it is such staff that we need. There is a continuous brain drain from Australia, particularly in the aircraft industry design section and we need to retain people in that section of the industry. People are talking about the HS1182 as a replacement for the Macchi. The Australian Labor Party is interested in a replacement for the Macchi that is designed in Australia. If it is not totally designed in Aus tralia it should be designed in part here and we should be able to take part in a coproduction order in which the Australian aircraft industry is receiving the benefit of high volume production over a sustained period of time and where the industry can keep a work load without constant fluctuations such as a sinusoidal curve up and down every 3 years. 
I do not have a great deal of time remaining, but I should like to discuss a number of other matters. The Labor Party wants similar provisions in regard to the  Mirage replacement. We want to get in on co-production and co-design. We do not want to pick up someone else's design and manufacture it here like a lot of dummies. We want to be able to help design the aircraft, help improve our design staff and get a long production order. The Government is blowing its bags about the Ikara missile. If the Government had done the right thing with the Ikara and tried to develop it as a ship-to-ship weapon as well as an antisubmarine weapon it would be able to sell a lot more of them. Now the Government has the audacity to be considering the standard missile from the United States of America as a replacement for the Tartar missile that we are using on the DDG destroyers, and there may be a selection for the DDL destroyers. I do not know the range of the Ikara; it is classified information. However, I know that the Asdic equipment on most of our destroyers has a range of about only 25 miles under good conditions but I am led to believe that the Ikara has a range of about 150 miles or 200 miles. If it has that range, with the launching equipment and the magazine equipment that is designed for it, it can easily be switched across to a surface-to-surface weapon. When I questioned the former Minister for Defence, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  he told me that the total research development and production costs up to the prototype stage for the Ikara was $15m. If it cost us only $15m to bring the Ikara from a drawing to a prototype, we should be able to switch it across into a surface-to-surface design for less than that. Yet there has been no encouragement by the Government for the aircraft industry to move into that line of research. At the moment, the Government also is considering the Rapier missile from 
Great Britain as a defensive weapon against low flying aircraft. This is another field where the Australian aircraft industry well has the capability of being able to develop this type of weapon. The Government says that there are only so many orders over so many years and when the production run falls the industry must go into a state of decline. It is obvious that no-one will be attracted to work in an industry which is continually subjected to peaks and troughs in its production and in its work load. The work load should be supplemented by a work load from commercial enterprises for which the Government should plan. 
There are plenty of other examples of aircraft industries throughout the world which have survived. The Government chooses to pick on Lockheed and the rest of them. The reason why Lockheed and the American companies are in trouble is because of the terrific control that the military and defence machine has in the United States. The United States has embarked on the design of military projects that it cannot possibly finance in the long term and it has had to let many of the projects drop. Aircraft industries such as the Swedish aircraft industry, which is tailored to fit the defence requirements of Sweden, do not have these peaks and troughs and if we took the lesson from those industries and moved into the manufacture of equipment that we perhaps could use for our own Services and sell to Services in other countries in the South East Asian region, we would find that we would not have an aircraft industry bedevilled by this problem of work load. It is not a matter of why; it is a matter of will and this Government has no will. It always criticises the Australian Labor Party for its lack of credibility on defence and it confuses the issue of defence and foreign policy. This Government has no defence policy. It never has had since the day of Robert Menzies and it has none today. The Govvernment cannot say to the Australian people: 'We are credible on defence when a key industry is falling apart. 
Another lesson is the DDL. There is no naval design staff capability in Australia at all. The Government must go to other countries toget a preliminary design and a detailed design drawn up. This is a serious situation. How can the Government purport to have a defence policy when the aircraft industry is losing its design staff and its technology is falling off? It has no naval design capability and its shipyards are deficient in the area of naval construction. So, I put it to the House that there is validity in the points made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  who raised this matter of public importance. The Parliament should be concerned about the declining state of the aircraft industry and the Government should be condemned for its lack of initiative and support for the industry. I certainly hope that this debate will do something to stir the Government from the lethargic approach it has to one of Australia's most important industries. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether he has noted the decision of the Society of General Practitioners in New South Wales to increase fees of general practitioners for surgery visits and home visits with all sorts of surcharges. Has he noted that the Australian Medical Association has roundly condemned and repudiated this outrageous attempt by 1,000 medical men, who have been educated at public expense, to exploit the poorer sections of the community? What does he  intend to do to stop the abuse of the Commonwealth's health scheme by these medical brigands? 
I move: 
That the honourable member for Dawson be granted an extension of time. 
I have attempted to highlight the way in which this Government grandstands, particularly with reference to this voucher system. Should this suggestion ever arise again this Parliament should overwhelmingly reject it. As I have said, the Opposition supports the Bill with the amendment proposed. The amendment should be carried because an Australian schools commission is needed to examine and determine the needs of students in government and non-government primary, secondary and technical schools alike and recommend grants which .the Commonwealth should make to the States to assist in meeting the requirements of all school age children on the basis of needs and priorities. I commend the amendment to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill but it seeks to amend it. The Bill provides for an increase in the per capita grants to independent schools by amending the States Grants (Independent Schools) Act which was originally drafted in 1969. The Bill before the House seeks to increase the per capita grants for primary schools from $35 to $50 per annum and for secondary schools from $50 per pupil per annum to $68 per annum. It is well to remember that although there has been a lot of criticism of members of the Australian Labor 
Party in this debate, the Labor Party supported the original Bill in 1969 with the same amendment that is proposed tonight. Contrary to what Liberal supporters say when they refer to their welfare programmes, notably in education, it was the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  who, as the Leader of the Federal Labor Party in 1966, proposed that per capita grants to independent schools be made on the basis of $30 per annum for primary school students and $40 per annum for secondary school students. This was in 1966, 3 years before the Liberal Government introduced its first per capita Bill. It was the first time that any major party in Australia had proposed this sort of legislation. 
The amendment moved by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  reads: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'The House, while not refusing a second reading to the Bill, is of the opinion that it should provide for the establishment of an Australian Schools Commission to examine and determine the needs of students in government and non-government primary, secondary, and technical schools, and recommend grants which the Commonwealth should make to the States to assist in meeting the requirements of all school age children on the basis of needs and priorities'. 
The Labor Party believes that this Bill perpetrates inequality in all schools particularly the non-government schools on the basis that grants made by State governments are at variance throughout the Commonwealth. As this Bill introduces a per capita grant over and above the various State grants, there is a continual disparity right throughout the 6 States. It is interesting to note the political implications of this particular debate. The Bill was first introduced in September 1969 and there was an election held in October 1969. Last year the Independent Schools Committee approached the Government for an increase in the per capita grants but the Government refused to grant an increase. This refusal was made even though the Government was under very strong pressure. Now we find that in 1972, an election year, the Government is again seeking to increase the per capita grants. I think it is fair to suggest that the Government is again trying to capture the vote of the Democratic Labor Party that it needs so desperately to be re-elected to office. 
This Bill and the debate would be the biggest coat trailing job that the Government has done this year or in fact in the last couple of years. Very rarely do we see so many speakers taking part in a debate. I think I am the eighteenth  speaker  today. There will probably be about 25 speakers in this debate. The Government seeks to pay an abject insult to the Labor Party in this Bill. By handing out money to the greater public schools as a sop to the DLP, it hopes that it will put the Labor Party in the position of rejecting the Bill and if the amendment is not accepted. The Labor Party understands that, if aid as it is currently given by this shabby Government is not continued the smaller parochial Catholic schools and other denominational schools, will founder immediately. It is interesting to note that the other night the person who led for the Government was the Minister representing  Senator Gair  in the House of Representatives, the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  I have never heard such a dastardly speech as his contribution. He must be- 
I particularly objected to the way that the Minister for Housing handled himself in this House the other night. He is one of those who supposedly espouse the cause of the smaller Catholic schools but he is the greatest political chameleon in the business. 
I will pay regard to your ruling,  Mr Speaker.  It is a pity that you were not the occupant of the chair the other night because the person to whom I referred, the spiritual hatchet man for the Liberal Party, could also have been called to order. I would like to read a few of the things that the Minister for Housing  said. In referring to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  the Minister said: 
What has the Leader of the Opposition attempted to do? He has attempted to divide government schools against non-government schools. He has introduced principles of rich and poor to divide them-- 
Not a bad principle -  and has then attempted to divide non-government schools on the basis of religion. 
The Minister went on to say: 
He-- 
The Leader of the Opposition -  gave a talk in the round house at the University of New South Wales. Once again he introduced these artificial divisions, not the clean employer/ employee clash of former days; not the clean clash that one expected from former days, but the new kind of sophisticated sectarianism promoted by the Labor Party. 
What the Minister is suggesting is that the Labor Party should oppose this Bill. He  wants  a  clean  clash. His interest is to divide this Parliament on its attitude to aid to independent schools. As far as I am concerned he and many others like him in this place use this type of legislation as a mechanism, purely for political purposes. Let us have a look at what the Minister has charged the Leader of the Opposition with, this sophisticated sectarianism and the issue of rich and poor that divide it. I would like the House to consider the money that has been given to the greater public schools in New South Wales. I will read some figures from the report presented under the States Grants (Independent Schools) Act 1969. These are the 18 Greater Public Schools and the total amount of per capita grants paid to them in 1970 and 1971: 
Abbot sleigh Church of England Girls' School, $101,870: 
Sydney Church of England Girls' Grammar School,$67,920; 
Scott's College, Bellevue Hill, $ 108,070; 
Kambala Church of England, Rose Bay, $61,950; 
The Kings School, Parramatta, $103,590; 
St Ignatius College, $70,270; 
Ravenswood Methodist School for Girls, $77,320; 
Cranbrook School, Bellevue Hill, $77,550; 
Shore, $102,840; 
Frenscham Girls' School, $31,000. 
Methodist Ladies' College, Burwood, $76,820; 
Newington Methodist College, Stanmore, $105,950; 
Waverley College, $106,870; 
Ascham School of Girls, Edgecliff, $72,250; 
St Josephs, Hunter's Hill, $82,000; 
Knox Grammar School, $116,930; 
St Aloysius, $80,570. 
That totals $1,593,000 in the 2-year period for the 18 greater public schools in New South Wales. This Government has the hide to talk about the Australian Labor Party bringing in a divisive issue on the basis of who is rich and who is poor. I would like to read from an edition of the 'Australian' newspaper earlier in the year which gave a summary of GPS schools. This is one that I picked at random. It relates to the Cranbrook school at Bellevue Hill: 
THE LOCATION: Cranbrook occupies the grounds of what was the Governor's residence in Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill, one of Sydney's exclusive eastern suburbs. Magnificent old stone buildings comprise the main part of the school. 
It also owns about five acres of playing fields at Rose Bay and has well-equipped science, music and art facilities. 
The main part of the school - ornate old stone buildings strung along a long drive - is quite extraordinarily beautiful. Where the old gardens used to run down to the foreshores of Rose Bay, new buildings have been added, but generally without destroying too much of the beauty of the place. 
Except for one (in relation to the rest of the school) hideous science block, the buildings are well-equipped and well-designed. Around the boarding houses, the school has allowed huge old trees to spread, giving an old countrified effect to the area. 
As the school has spread, the council has bought up a number of large old houses nearby and these are used for boarders. As one of the best endowed schools in Sydney, it has good facilities, particularly for science and art. 
It is still, however, the preserve of the wealthy, and each sports day brings a flock of Jaguars, Mercedes and sports cars fighting for a place directly outside the school. 
Are they not doing it tough? I thought that information needed to be brought to the attention of the House because this Bill does not discriminate. The same sort of money as is going to the poor Catholic parochial schools is going on a per capita basis to the greater public schools. The figures I read out did not include library and science blocks grants. 
Let me mention some of the schools in my area. At the school I attended, De La Salle college at Bankstown, not too many years ago the children were plodding through mud and ashes in the playground to get to portable timber classrooms. There were inadequate facilities in teaching aids. The buildings generally were inadequately heated. The situation was the same at other schools in the area such as Christ the King at Bass Hill and St Brenda's at  central Bankstown, which are parochial schools. The same situation applies with the government schools in the area. All of the government schools are in the same deprived condition. Some have little wooden hovels for classrooms, hopeless toilet facilities, overcrowded classrooms and lack of teachers. How can we possibly talk about giving the same sort of money to these schools as we give to the schools about which I have just read. It is just preposterous. The honourable member for Fremantle said to overcome the problem the Labor Party intends to introduce an Australian schools commission so that the Commonwealth can determine the needs and distribute money on the basis of needs. The Government pooh-poohs this and regards it as pie in the sky. The Government says that it cannot be done and that it is discriminatory. It discriminates in favour of the poor; that is true. 
The honourable member for Fremantle also spoke about the Inner London Educational Authority in Great Britain, which is an organisation similar to the Australian schools commission proposed by the Labor Party. Some of the criteria by which that organisation works in relation to schools are the social class of the personss in the vicinity, the housing stress, the number of large families, the question of poverty, the number of immigrants, the number of handicapped pupils, teacher stress, the hours that teachers have to teach, the subjects and the class sizes, pupil turnover, parental interest and the adequacy of school buildings. These are the things that have to be considered by a schools commission. It is not a mammoth job. We have seen the Australian Universities Commission work successfully, so why should the Government say we are going to set up another useless bureaucracy? We need to set it up so that there is an intelligent distribution of the money going to schools throughout the Commonwealth of Australia. The Minister for Education and Science in his second reading speech said: 
Our policy objective for the independent schools is that relying on their own efforts and with assistance from governments they should be  ablie  to continue to provide an adequate standard of education for that proportion of the school population which has in the past attended independent schools. 
The operative words in that little statement are 'relying on their own efforts'. This 
Bill is totally inadequate. The money going to government schools is also totally inadequate. This Government will not allow sufficient money to be allocated to the parents of the pupils and the pupils themselves do not have to go without to see the school keep its head above water. 
Figures I have received from an official source show that the cost of educating a secondary pupil in Australia is S450 a year. The Commonwealth is paying out under this Bill $68 per annum for each secondary pupil. That is $68 as against $450. For a primary school pupil the cost is $300, and the Commonwealth is paying out under this Bill $50; previously it was $35. Where does this $50 or $35  -  now $68 or $50  -  go particularly in the non-government schools which have the added burden of paying lay teachers? Take the non-government schools in New South Wales. In 1962, 19.58 per cent of Catholic schools had lay teachers. In 1968 the percentage had gone up to 40.9. In 1972 the smaller parochial Catholic schools in New South Wales have 48 to 50 per cent lay teachers. 
This is the biggest burden, as the honourable member for Riverina says. What if we had to pay the religious teachers? Not a word is ever mentioned about the religious teacher. He has to give his life up to the children and get $15, $20 or $25 a week. Some receive less. They receive just a mere pittance to live on. They are not paid adequately for their services. So where is the Commonwealth's generosity with these people. Does the Government think that they should be discriminated against? They are all qualified. They have to go to universities. How about more money coming to them? They are forgotten. Very shortly the New South Wales Catholic school system will have to pay superannuation and long service leave to its teachers, who are now being paid State award money. This will be another burden. This miserable $68 that the team across the green carpet here get up and spruik about is just a pittance. 
As a member of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party Education Committee I was lobbied here by a group of people who are part of the Catholic education committee in New South Wales. After quite a long conversation with them it became very obvious to me that their interests were those of the greater public schools. They are in fact lobbying to retain the per capita grant. I mention this becauseI am quite certain that their dual influence on the Catholic parents and friends organisation is not a good one and that the general cause of the non-government schools in New South Wales is not well served by this sort of people. I think it is important that I mention this matter because these people consistently bring pressure to retain the per capita grants system. Their argument is that we should not discriminate against children at the larger schools, the basis of the argument being that the parents of pupils at the smaller schools do not try - to use  the  words of one of the persons who spoke to me. Perhaps they have never thought that some of these parents might be widows, or  some  of them might be invalided or some of them might have large families. Admittedly, many of the parents of pupils at the smaller schools cannot afford to send their children there. Nevertheless, on the basis of needs, I submit that the Australian schools commission and the policy which we envisage are more appropriate.I think this is the way by which money should be directed to overcome the problems of people with inadequate means. 
I would like to illustrate another way in which this Government grandstands. I have a document here beaded 'Government Members' Education and Science Committee'. It contains the minutes of a meeting. It contains a little select dinner list. I would like toread through it. I intend to have this paper incorporated in Hansard. It states in part: 
Particular attention was given to the means by which the Commonwealth might attract recognition commensurate with the degree of its assistance in the whole field of education. The voucher system was seen as a potentially effective means of giving physical identity to the provision of Commonwealth moneys. Difficulties were envisaged in determining just what funds a voucher system would replace. 
It goes on to state: 
It was agreed that it was not in the Commonwealth interest for the details of the Survey of Educational Needs to continue to be unavailable and that the sooner we were in a position to judge whether the detailed survey was a sufficient basis for further alternative Commonwealth programming the better. It was decided that the secretary would attempt to prepare by the next meeting a draft submission for the Minister to be considered in his Budget submissions and it was also decided that one of the members would attempt to prepare a more detailed case on the possibilities of the voucher system. 
To a lot of people listening tonight that might not mean very much. I read earlier the words 'what funds a voucher system would replace'. What the Liberal Party is attempting to do by this suggestion is divert Commonwealth money through a voucher system which a parent would get in his or her hand as money to be paid for fees, the voucher bearing the name of the Commonwealth of Australia, not a State. The Government will carve the money from some other allocation and will then say: This Government has given you money and it is directly in your hands with a voucher direct from the Commonwealth of Australia'. This is typical of the Government's attitude. It is not interested to see whether children get a fair go but merely to ensure that it can push its own barrow on the question of education, particularly in respect of non-denomination schools. It is not concerned with the small and poor Catholic parochial schools.  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard the Minutes of the meeting of the Government Members' Education and Science Committee of 27th April 1971 from which I have just read. 
I have just a few words to say on this matter. I did not know that it was being raised today. I was the first to raise this matter in the 
House during 1970. There are just one or two points I would like to make in reference to what the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has said. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  said: 
When the level of foreign holdings falls below 15 per cent the Ordinance will operate as originally intended and transfers will be permitted up to but not beyond the 15 per cent announced by the Government in 1970. 
There is no indication that any of these foreign holdings will disappear below 15 per cent. In fact the companies that are holding shares in either of these 2 companies - Queensland Mines Ltd and Kathleen Investments Australia Ltd - would not be prone to sell the shares considering the fact that the whole situation in regard to the sale of uranium in Australia is in a very fluid position. With the Government talking about enrichment plants, agreements with Japan and possible sales of uranium to Japan, these companies would not be selling any of their shares to bring down their level of holdings below IS per cent. The other matter I wish to raise relates to page 7 of the typescript of the Minister's statement. It says that shares held in excess of 15 per cent under this special arrangement will have normal voting rights and their holders will be able to participate in any new general share issues by virtue of their holdings in these shares. If the whole purpose of the Minsec exercise was to keep the value of the shares at a realistic level then the Government should not have allowed the debt reconstruction of Minsec to take place at the expense of permitting foreign equity in the two companies mentioned in the Ordinance to exceed the stipulated 15 per cent with full voting rights on holdings over the 15 per cent. Why should the foreign companies have voting rights on the additional 6 per cent? What it really means is that foreign companies have 21 per cent of the equity of the 2 companies mentioned in the ordinance and who can say that they are going to sell the additional equity to bring it below 15 per cent? On top of that, major decisions could be made in this period on the power vested in the voting rights on the extra 6 per cent. If the Government were sincere about this matter it would allow companies to hold the equity in the 6 per cent but would deny them voting rights on the 6 per cent. The Minister's statement said that in any general share issues, by virtue of their holdings in these new shares, they are able to take up any new shareholdings. That also is unreasonable. I think the Minister should recognise this, by amending the ordinance so that foreign companies can have the 6 per cent but not have voting rights on the 6 per cent. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that arising from the Mineral Securities Australia Ltd debt reconstruction the Government recently amended the Companies (Uranium Mining Companies) Ordinance 1970 of the Australian Capital Territory to allow foreign companies to hold 21 per cent equity in Queensland Mines Ltd and Kathleen Investments (Australia Limited - that is, 6 per cent in excess of the figure stipulated by the Ordinance? In view of the fact that the Minister for National Development has stated that it is the Government's hope that the foreign company which holds the additional 6 per cent equity will divest itself of this holding, will the Prime Minister introduce a further amendment to the Ordinance to compel this foreign company to offer the excess holding to Australians within 3 to 6 months at the price of acquisition? 
Before I commence my own address I wish to make a few comments on the speech by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer).  He referred to what the Australian Labor Party regards as the territorial limit of Australia. I want to make this point clear: The. Labor Party is not prepared to garrison troops overseas. However it would protect Australia's coastline far beyond the 3-mile territorial limit. The honourable member for Isaacs talked about building up the Australian Navy to protect our sea lanes in the Indian Ocean. If the Australian Navy had to protect our sea lanes from the menacing of Russian naval vessels, does the honourable member seriously suggest that the Australian Navy would attack Russian vessels, invoking a probable nuclear response. Australia is the most urbanised country in the world, with its population concentrated in Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth. Five nuclear strikes from conventional or nuclear powered Russian submarines would wipe us out as a Nation. Does the honourable member for Isaacs seriously suggest that the Russian Navy would be. dealt with by the Australian Navy, regardless of the policy of Russia in response to such action? That is what he is suggesting. It is no good the honourable member shaking bis head. That is what he has just said. It is a lot of humbug, and he knows it. 
The Government is playing politics by bringing on this debate when the. proceedings of the House are being broadcast. Any debate that can possibly give political mileage for the Government is always broadcast. The other political consideration is that this defence review and the defence statement by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  come in an election year. The only time the Liberals ever talk about defence is in an election year. They never discuss it at any other period. A defence statement was made in this House, by the then Minister for Defence,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, in 1970 and was never debated. 
The Minister made, a long dissertation followed by a reply by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  but the Parliament had no chance to debate the statement. The Liberal Party professes to be concerned about defence, but the Government has not initiated any defence debate during this Parliament until today, when only 6 to 12 members will be able to speak on the matter. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  says that defence will be an issue in the forthcoming election. How he can regard defence as being an issue which can gain support for the Liberal Party and its policies is beyond me. In every aspect of defence the Liberal Party has failed Australia. The key difference between the policy of the, Opposition and the policy of the Government on defence is not in relation to the ANZUS Treaty or this business about territorial limits because the Government knows that these issues do not matter. The key area of difference is defence preparedness. As far as the Opposition is concerned, defence preparedness means defence specifically. The Labor Party has always had a solid gold record in the matter of defence. The Labor Party's defence policy, as set out in the platform and rules of the 29th Commonwealth Conference of the Australian Labor Party, which the honourable member for Isaacs mentioned, states: 
All defence policy rests ultimately upon the possible deployment of the armed forces. Labor's policy is to provide a strong regular and citizen defence force which can be rapidly and efficiently, mobilised in time of need. 
That suggests to me that the Opposition would plan a defence force that could defend Australia at any given time. I turn to the Australian Defence Review prepared by the Department of Defence and presented concurrently to the Parliament when the Minister made his defence statement. Paragraph 3 on page 16 of the Defence Review states: 
. Australia's force structure should be built partly to meet evident and foreseeable needs, some of which are referred to below, and partly to provide readiness against threats of varying orders of probability or intensity which cannot be predicted so far ahead and are, therefore, best described as estimated contingencies. To fail to allow adequately for contingencies, and to wait for tangible threats to emerge before commencing to train manpower and to acquire equipment, would transfer an unfair and perhaps calamitous burden of risk upon the next generation. 
Ten pages further on appears a statement that has been quoted already by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison).  Paragraph 53 states: 
Opportunity to give greater weight to long term strategic considerations in the shaping of our forces has until recently been restricted by the immediate demands of our combat deployment in Vietnam. That opportunity is now restored. 
What that document says is that the Government, by its Vietnam commitment, has left Ausralia in a state of insufficient preparedness. At the same time, 10 pages earlier the Defence Review states that if we - do not train manpower and acquire equipment before the need arises we are failing to defend the country. So where does that leave the Government? The Department of Defence is repudiating the Government's policy. 
I would like to mention a couple of other matters. Since the announcement of the Nixon doctrine and since the Government failed in its commitment in the war in Vietnam, the Government is now talking about a role for Australia in achieving greater self-sufficiency in defence. It is talking about a fourth arm defence concept by assisting our defence industries. This is a vital field. The only way a country can have an independent defence capability is to have a strong industrial back-up. This Government has never attempted to salvage or assist defence industry. I would like to make one very simple point on this. During 1970 I asked the then Minister for Defence a question upon notice in relation to the value of military equipment purchased overseas during the years 1954 to 1970. As a percentage of the total amount spent on defence, the amount spent overseas on military equipment for Australian forces in 1958 was 32 per cent, in 1969 it was 39 per cent, in 1960 it was 81 per cent, in 1961 it was 47 per cent, in 1962 it was 47 per cent, in 1963 it was 55 per cent, and in 1964 it was 52 per cent. Expenditure overseas reached a high point of 61 per cent, of total defence expenditure in 1967 and a low point of 45 per cent in 1969. So at least half of the expenditure on defence equipment has gone overseas during that period. I seek leave to have this question and answer incorporated in Hansard. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 
I thank the House. In his statement in this House on 28th March the Minister for Defence said: 
It is also clear, I suggest, that we should not found our defence policy, or our willingness to engage ourselves to assist others, on a simple faith in the success of diplomatic efforts of mighty powers or on the benign intentions of rivals for ideological supremacy among communist powers. 
It is not enough for Australia's force structure to be built to meet only needs or threats that are explicitily definable. We owe it to the community, and to the future parliaments and governments representing them, to have in our 3 armed services and in our industrial and scientific support an adequate readiness against contingent threats looking, in some types of equipment and works expenditure, as far ahead as the. late 1980s. 
The Minister there is talking about defence equipment for the armed services. At this point I would like to put on record the policy of the Australian Labor Party as printed in its policy documents in relation to defence mobilisation and procurement. I would like the House to understand that the Labor Party is the only Party that publishes a comprehensive policy anyway, and specifically on defence. It is only short - but I think it bears report into the Hansard record. The Labor Party's policy states: 
The defence capability of the nation depends primarily upon national development and the resulting capacity to manufacture, procure and maintain supplies and materials. 
Labor shall - 
encourage the procurement and servicing of defence supplies and equipment wherever possible from within Australia with the aim of promoting the growth of Australia's defence-aligned industries; 
encourage Australian industries capable of conversion to defence production in time of war under an overall industrial mobilisation plan; 
ensure that procurement which of necessity is placed abroad is obtained under contracts affording the maximum offset purchasing advantages to Australia and the maximum scope for manufacture under licence within Australia; 
provide and develop ports, airfields, railways and roads which will contribute to the mobility of the defence forces as well as to the material development of the nation; and 
ensure exclusive government control over the manufacture and export of arms and munitions.  1 ask you,  Sir, does  that sound like an irresponsible or short sighted policy - to encourage defence industries so that our armed forces may have a strong defence back-up? The Government has failed completely in this area. It has talked about the concept of the fourth arm of defence. It has talked about assisting industries. But in the areas of electronics, naval design, naval construction, aircraft design, aircraft construction and missile design and research Australia is sadly lacking. There is no naval design facility at all in Australia. I am quite certain most people do not realise this. Our naval shipbuilding is embryonic. Shipyards have little or no work. Need we say much more about aircraft design? There is a tremendous brain drain from Australia of aircraft designers who are capable of designing toprate equipment and who are going overseas because of lack of work and incentive. Our aircraft industry has retrenched a large proportion of its workforce. The industry is in such financial chaos that it will be lucky to sur vive, for the next 12 or 18 months unless there is some drastic change of circumstances. 
The root cause of the problem gets back to the lack of a consistent defence policy. This Government has never been able to have the Services in such a position as to enable them to tailor their equipment requirements to a consistent defence policy. The position has always been that our policy has been bound in with great power treaties. Firstly the Liberals had a fetish about Great Britain. We entered all the wars back as far as 1918 and further in support of Great Britain. The same excesses apply to the USA now. We were dragged into Korea and Vietnam. All the time our defence reqirements have been tailored to suit great powers and the end result has been that the Australian defence industry has never had a chance to continually design and manufacture equipment for Australian forces. It is worth remembering that  Sir Henry  Bland, the former permanent head of the Department of Defence who retired only 2 years ago, said that it is folly that we should be tailoring our defence needs in with those of the US, and we should get back to looking at equipment that suits Australia. If we can get past the concept that we must have the best, and look to the equipment that is more suitable but less expensive, probably we will be doing the country a service. 
Take the selection of the Fill. This was just a political decision. The Fill is a strategic aircraft. It is designed to carry nuclear weapons, over a range of 3,000- odd miles, to fly a supersonic dash at near ground level below ground tracking radar, drop a nuclear weapon and get out. This country does not have nuclear weapons. To what possible use could we put the Fill? If we finally get the aircraft it will be stationed at Amberley. There is no other base that could support the Fill. Amberley is thousands of miles from any theatre of war in which we are likely to be engaged. So in every sense the Services have had no encouragement to support local industries. There has not been a defence policy consistent for long enough to allow the Services to develop some sort of equipment plan. 
Let us turn now to the current position with the latest programme that the Liberals have - the DDL destroyer programme. Let me give honourable members some idea of how equipment selection is made in Australia. We started off with a light destoryer of about 1,000 tons- Since the Navy has had a go at it, its displacement is now up to 3,000 tons. The DDL is nearly as big as the DDG destroyers we purchased from the US, and would have a crew of 2,000 people. We were after the concept of a small destoryer. and it has already escalated from 1,000 tons to 3,000 tons. The Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  confirmed that the DDL would be worth something like $50m to $70m apiece. This is just too costly. With a coastline like Australia's, it is impracticable to talk about half a dozen or 10 ships such as these heavy vessels. As the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  said today, from Perth right around the extremity of the north coast of Australia to Townsville there is not any other naval base. So what is the point of having a couple of these things strung out over an area like this. 
What Australia should be looking at is the concept of the fast patrol boat. Perhaps we could have something like a 350- ton displacement hull, with a capacity to mount surface to surface missiles. It would be basically a hit and run weapon, but it has been proved pretty well throughout the navies of the world that this type of weapon carries a strike power that could equal that of a well equipped destroyer. One of the prime criticisms of it has been that it does not have seakeeping capabilities and that its range has not been sufficiently long to make it suitable for this country. But these vessels have been developed with ranges of up to 3,000 miles, seakeeping for approximately one week. They can support a surface to surface missile system or an anti-aircraft missile system, and there are now some experiments being conducted using this platform for and with anti-submarine weapon systems. So we could have a great number of this type of vessel rather than have a few DDGs of 3,000 tons. 
The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  has had two bob each way. He talked about the problem that the House has with petitions and the possible merits of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  and then be indicated that he would not support the amendment. Perhaps he will support the principle embodied in the amendment when his party is in opposition next year. He also said that this debate has political overtones and that he himself had the honour of moving an amendment to a Standing Orders Committee report a year or so ago and was successful. He also commented that the people on the Standing Orders Committee that considered this matter were of such calibre that perhaps the Parliament should not alter the Committee's recommendations. If I might get back to political overtones, he and other members of his party, in a free vote situation, conned members into reducing speaking time. The honourable member for Denison just waffled for the full length of his speaking time tonight when he could have said what he wanted to say in 5 minutes. 
I should like to put my view to the Parliament. Last week we sat here for nearly an hour while petitions were being read before we got on to questions. I do not think anyone was really interested by the end of the hour, and many honourable members in presenting petitions referred to their petitions as being couched in similar terms to the petition presented before them. In fact the contents of the petitions were not even read. I do not think that this is doing justice to the people who petition the Parliament. What the honourable member for Riverina has suggested in his amendment as a means to overcome this problem is worth the support of the House.  His  amendment provides that the petitions go to a committee of 7 members, who will send them to the appropriate area of government for report and perhaps a decision on the matter. 
The other point that I think arises from petitions is that some petitions are presented by groups which masquerade as alternative political parties. Other people petition on subjects that are a personal affront to members of Parliament who are asked to present them. For instance, if someone asked me to present petitions on the relaxation of abortion laws, I would not present them. I make no bones about that. But I may present one and I would like to think that the matter is referred to the committee that the honourable member for Riverina has suggested so that the Parliament has the opportunity to decide what course of action it can take on this petition and so that an honourable member is not bedevilled with one petition after another which may be personal affronts to his views. There are members here who have made very strong statements, for instance, in their opposition to the war in Vietnam. If they were presented with petitions every day by certain groups saying that we should send troops back to Vietnam, they would find it very difficult to keep presenting these petitions to the Parliament. 
It is reasonable that they should be referred to a committee and some attitude determined upon them. Under the present system they are just presented to the Parliament holus-bolus. They are not receiving the attention of the House. They are just pigeonholed, as many honourable members have said, in the archives of the Parliament. I do not think that this is good enough. 1 think the electors deserve more than this. Parliament should give due consideration to the contents of petitions. I cannot see how we can do this in the period before questions each day. Therefore I think petitions should go to a committee, and I could not envisage a committee any better than the one envisaged in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Riverina. I will have much pleasure in supporting the amendment when the vote is taken. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Mr Grassby's amendment)  be added. 
On 23rd August 1971 1 raised in the House a question on the allocation of questions by the  Speaker  and the equality of opportunity for honourable members to question members of the Ministry. Honourable members will be aware that the Standing Orders Committee considered the motion that 1 referred to it and recommended in its report that no action be taken the matter. Arising from that motion there is in an appendix to the report tables which list for both the autumn and Budget sessions for the years 1968 to 1971 the number of questions asked by members of the Opposition and the number of questions asked by members of the Government who are not in the Ministry. The point I want to make is that even though that appendix illustrates that there has been an equal opportunity for honourable members on each side to question members of the Ministry, the problem as I see it is the right of each individual member to have an equal opportunity to question a Minister. 
It is not fair that questions should be allocated on the basis of Government versus the Opposition because as we know there are 65 members of the Government, of which 22 are Ministers in the House of Representatives, 5 are Assitant Ministers and one is the  Speaker.  Therefore we have a total of 28 persons who cannot ask questions of Ministers. This leaves a balance of 37 members on the Government side who are the questioners of the Ministers. In comparison there are 59 members of the Opposition, so it works out on the basis of roughly 30 on one side and 60 on the other. This shows that there is a disparity in the number of members asking Ministers questions. 1 should imagine that any table prepared on the basis of questions asked by members of the Opposition would indicate that there has been an equality of opportunity in that respect. Naturally this would happen because the  Speaker  calls one from each side of the House, one from his left and then one from his right. 
But when this is looked at on the basis that 59 Opposition members may question Ministers and 37 members from the Government side may question Ministers, it is obvious that the 37 members on the Government side will each be able to ask more questions than the 59 members on the other side of the House. My point is that honourable members on this side of the House are fundamentally members of the House of Representatives, regardless of the Party to which they belong. Therefore, each of us ought to have an equal opportunity to question the Ministry. Whether we belong to the Government Parties or to the Opposition, it is not fair that 37 members on the Government side of the House are able to ask more questions each year than are the 59 members on the Opposition side of the House, even though the questions may be equally divided on a Government and Opposition basis. 
I have not moved an amendment on this question because I realise that the Government probably would use its numbers to defeat it, but I should like to register my protest against the Committee's decision. My intention in moving the motion to refer this question of the allocation of questions to the Standing Orders Committee was quite clear. I was not arguing about whether the Government or the Opposition asks more questions because obviously if the  Speaker  calls one member from each side alternatively, it must work out that there is basic equality in the number of questions which members on the Government and Opposition sides ask. But when one considers that there are 59 members on the Opposition side and 37 members on the Government side questioning the Ministry one can see that members on the Government side are able to ask more questions of the Ministry. 
We are ail members of this House and we are all equal. We deserve an equal opportunity to question the Ministry, but we are not getting it. It is as simple as that. I wait here to ask a question. I am able to ask one question every 3 weeks, and every other member of the Opposition gets one question every 3 weeks. The rest of our questions have to be put on notice. In the Senate question time runs for an hour or an hour and a quarter - sometimes longer. There are 60 members of the Senate. In this chamber there are 125 members and question time runs for threequarters of an hour. With the pattern of Government and Opposition in Australia today, it has been the practice for the Leader of the Opposition and the Deputy Leader of the Opposition to ask many more questions than the average back bench member of the Opposition asks. Therefore, Opposition members are again penalised. But we find that 37 members on the Government side are able to ask a couple of questions each week. 
On the day on which I originally raised this matter the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  asked 3 questions and the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  asked 2 questions, but we are able to ask only one question every 3 weeks. The Standing Orders Committee brings down a report and justifies its inaction by saying that the Opposition members and the members on the Government side get an equal opportunity to ask questions. It is obvious. If the  Speaker  calls members from his left and his right alternately, naturally at the end of a session the members on the Government and Opposition sides will have had equal opportunity to ask questions. But do the 37 members on one side get a better opportunity to question the Ministry than do the 59 members on the other side? Obviously the answer is yes. It is inequitable and unfair, and it does not behove the Standing Orders Committee to use this sort of basic argument which does not deal with the root cause of the problem that motivated me in the first place to move that the matter of allocation of questions be referred to the Standing Orders Committee. I am not quite sure whether I am in order, but 1 should like the Standing Orders Committee to reconsider the matter of the allocation of questions, not on the basis of equality between the Government side and the Opposition side, in relation to the parties on either side, but on the basis of equal opportunity for members of the House to question the Ministry. I should like the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  to give an assurance that this matter will go before the Standing Orders Committee again. If a motion is required to enable that to be done, I would be very happy to move it. 
I second the amendment. It is a worthwhile amendment because it will give the  Speaker  the opportunity to devise some equitable way whereby members of the House will have an equal opportunity of asking questions of the Ministry. During his remarks the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  outlined the scandalous position in which all members of the Opposition but one, that is 58 of us, have been able to ask only 2 questions of the Ministry whereas the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin)  has asked 5 and the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  6, and so on. Thai is 2 to 3 times as many questions as have been asked by individual members of the Opposition. This is a scandalous position in a Parliament where all members are supposed to be equal. 
Another point that should be mentioned is that the Assistant Ministers, who by their appointment have allowed themselves to become mummified sychophants, do not question the Ministry at all. in addition a number of conservative supporters of the Government do not think it is their role to question or be critical of the . Ministry in any way. Therefore questions from the Government side are limited to 15 or 16 members. Therefore they get the lion's share of questions. If supporters of the Government do not wish to question the Ministry my view is that the 15 or 16 who do should be able to question Ministers only when members of the Opposition have had an equal opportunity, as members of this House of Representatives, to question the Ministry. 
Earlier I referred to the fact that the Senate devotes 11 hours each day to question time. It is worth remembering that there are only 5 Ministers in the Senate compared with 22 in the House of Representatives. Most of the questions directed to Ministers in the Senate representing Ministers, in the House of Representatives receive very short answers because the Ministers plainly tell the questioners that they are not sure of the answers and will refer the questions to the appropriate Ministers. With only 5 Ministers in the Senate it is natural that replies to questions are much shorter. The Senate has only half the number of members of the House of Representatives and senators have double **ie time to question Ministers each day. 
Just how bad is the position in the House of Representatives when members of the Opposition can ask one question each in every 3 weeks and some supporters of the Government can ask 5 or 6 questions in a session when members on this side can only ask 2? I think that the Standing Orders Committee was remiss in not recognising that the motive for my suggested amendment of the Standing Orders was to secure a more equitable distribution of questions. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Bowman will give the  Speaker  an opportunity to look at the position. Members from the Government side sneered and jeered a few minutes ago when I completed my remarks and when the honourable member for Bowman commenced to speak. They will be in our place next year and if they have any common sense they will support this amendment. 
The honourable member is only a sycophantic Assistant Minister. This time next year he will be on this side of the House. The amendment will enable the  Speaker  to consider the position at question time. The least that members on the other side can do is to support the amendment because it does nothing more than allow the  Speaker  to consider the position. I think the amendment deserves support and I have much pleasure in supporting it. 
1 rise this evening to speak on 2 matters. They are not connected, but I think that both require some attention. Firstly, I read with some regret of the retirement of  Sir Philip  Baxter, the  Chairman  of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. 1 thought it only right that I should place on the records of this Parliament some expression of appreciation of his services. I have met  Sir Philip  on a number of occasions. I believe he made a very valuable contribution to the lot of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and to the lot of science generally in Australia. As honourable members know, he was a Britisher who came here in 1949. The University of New South Wales was created by the State Government in 1948 and  Sir Philip  Baxter took over as Director of that University in 1953 and Chancellor in 1955. He took that University from an embryonic state and left it a fully fledged University comparable with any in the world. From that University he accepted appointment as full time  chairman  of the Atomic Energy Commission. As is well known, that body has progressed to the stage where Australia is currently looking at the establishment of a nuclear generation plant and also the possible introduction of enrichment of uranium fuel in Australia. 
Most  of  the initiative of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission rightly can be laid at the door of  Sir Philip  Baxter. I believe he is a courageous man who has the strength  of  his convictions. He is a very great Australian. I certainly hope that his services will not be lost to the Commonwealth  of  Australia, even though he is no longer Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission. 1 hope, too, that in future he may be so kind as to give the Commonwealth of Australia the benefit of his very valuable knowledge. 
The main matter on which I rose to speak tonight concerns what I regard as a major indiscretion committed by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  in this House last Thursday, 13th April. He was asked a questin about the Fill aircraft by my colleague the honourable member for Bonython  (Mr Nicholls). 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Can he say what are the detailed criteria for permanent entry into and settlement in: 
Japan 
The Philippines 
Thailand 
Hong Kong 
Fiji 
Malaysia 
Singapore, and 
Indonesia. 
The Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  a few moments ago referred to a speech I made during the adjournment debate last week concerning a reply he made to a question asked by the honourable member for Bonython  (Mr Nicholls)  in relation to the costs of the Fill aircraft. I might say at the outset that this question was asked on a Thursday and that in the evening of that Thursday I went to the Minister's office seeking the green Hansard copy of the question and the answer, but his offices were closed. I still intended to speak on the adjournment but - you will recall,  Mr Speaker,  that there has been some discussion about this incident since it happened - both the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  and I were virtually silenced because the  Deputy Speaker  put the motion that the House do now adjourn, he got up from the chair, walked out of the chamber and left us standing here. That was the reason I did not deal with this matter on that night. However I did go to the Minister's office. 
On the Wednesday of the next week I raised the matter in the House. The point I raised was that the honourable member for Bonython asked the Minister the following question: 
Can he say what was the estimated cost for each plane in 1963 and what is that figure today? What was the total cost of the order in 1963 and what will be the total figure on delivery? 
The Minister replied that the cost had not escalated as much as the costs of other products may have escalated and said: 
In fact Australia has a fixed price per aircraft of $5.95m and this will be less than the cost to the United States Air Force. So Australia has an extremely good bargain. I am informed by all the people who advise the Government that the Flit is still by far the best aircraft available in the world. 
The point I wished to make was that there were 2 parts to the question - one about the unit cost of the aircraft and the other about the total cost of the project. The total cost of the project in 1963 was $11 2m. and that had escalated, on the Minister's own figures, to $344m, discounting my remarks about the Phantom and the tanker aircraft. In the Minister's statement on 16th December he said that the new estimated project cost for the 24 F1I1C aircraft was $344m. That figure represented a 300 per cent increase on the original total estimated cost. So that put paid to the Minister's statement that costs had not escalated. A 300 per cent increase is an appreciable increase in price. 
The other aspect is the unit cost of the aircraft. The $5. 95m was secured as a basic price after negotiations with the United States Government in 1967, 3 years after the order was placed. If my memory serves me correctly, when the order was placed, the figure spoken of was around $3.5m. After debate in the House and in the country had taken place during the 3 years from 1964 to 1967 the Government, to save its bacon, got this price of $5. 95m per aircraft, but that had escalated from the $3.5m. Now tonight the Minister has said that the fly away unit cost of each aircraft is $8.6m. So it was not fair for him to say that $5. 95m was the price we secured from the United States and that this price was lower than the price at which the United States Air Force will be acquiring the aircraft. The fact is that the Government entered into an open ended contract with no provisions relating to lack of performance of the aircraft or escalating costs, and we have been left holding the baby. As I have said in this House before, the Government bought in haste and we have been left to repent at leisure. The basic aspects I raise are that the project cost has gone up 300 per cent and that the unit cost has appreciated from $3.5m to $8.6m now. 
The other aspect I raised related to the Phantom aircraft. I think it is valid to say that if we had had delivery of the Fill within the period specified by the Minister for Defence at the time of the purchase,  Mr Townley,  we would not have had to lease the Phantom aircraft. So it is fair to say that the Phantom costs were additional to the costs of the project and that if the project had been completed we would not have had to lease the Phantom aircraft. When the cost of leasing the Phantom is added to the project cost of the Fill the total cost is well over $344m. 
The other aspect the Minister raised was my criticism of the Fill in comparison with the bombing performance of B52 aircraft as stated in the United States 'Armed Forces Journal'. The Government has talked about the Fill aircraft having a prime role as a strategic deterrent, not as a tactical fighter-bomber. There is a very great difference. The aircraft of the United States Strategic Air Command carry nuclear weapons on a 24 hour basis. Should the United States be pre-empted in a nuclear attack the aircraft of that unit of the United States Air Force are targeted on places in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and other countries. Therefore they have a strategic job to do. The Fill, in the Government's view, is a strategic aircraft, and it was purchased to fulfil a strategic role at the time of confrontation with Indonesia. But my point is that it is not a strategic aircraft unless it carries a nuclear weapon, and the bomb load of the Fill in far too low for it to be considered as a strategic aircraft. I think it would do the Minister good to read last week's Time' magazine, in which United States journalists have written about the effectiveness of the massive bombing by B52 aircraft in Vietnam. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  has said in this House on many occasions that the massive bomb loads that are being dropped on Vietnam have not seriously diminished the capacity of North Vietnam to prosecute the war in South Vietnam. 
The B52 aircraft, which are dropping 30 tons of bombs per aircraft - this is quite massive by comparison with the capacity of the Fill - have failed as strategic aircraft. So talk about the Fill being a strategic aircraft is not valid because it is just not in that class. I do not mind talking about tactical fighter-bombers, but when we purchase 24 aircraft which have a stated unit cost of $8. 6m and a real unit cost of $14. 3m, we have been taken for a ride, particularly as our own aircraft industry can develop aircraft that will fly at mach 2, supersonically, as the Mirage aircraft does and as the Mirage replacement probably will. There is nothing to say that we could not be building fighter-bombers should we require them. The point I was making was that on accuracy of bombing the Fill, according to the 'Armed Forces Journal', is only marginally better than the B52. 
I summarise in this way: The unit cost of the FI 1 1 has gone from $3.5m in 1 963 to $8.6m now. The Minister said that it was only $5.95m. In my estimation, that was not correct. The second point is that the total cost has gone from $112m to $344m, on the Minister's own say-so - an increase of 300 per cent. On top of that 1 believe we should add the cost of the Phantom because we leased that aircraft as an interim measure when the Fill had not been delivered. My last point is that if it is considered to be a strategic aircraft, as the Government has referred to it in the past, it is clearly not worth the money we are paying because its bomb load is very small for a strategic bombing aircraft. Admittedly, it has a long range, but nothing like the range that was ordered in the original specification. Not only that, it is such a sophisticated aircraft that  ,X  must have colossal back-up facilities. t the moment the aircraft will be stationed only at Amberley. Its radius of operation from Amberley would seriously restrict it even for a tactical role. 
So, in my view, this nation has been taken for a ride. We could have had much better value for our money. Perhaps we could have established an aircraft industry in Australia, comparable with that in Sweden, and we could be designing and developing our own fighter bombers suitable for our own requirements with the massive coastlines and the great distances we need to cover, instead of falling for this furphy of trying to tie in with United States equipment and having five or six Ministers for Defence trying to defend this project and finally saying that we got a bargain and we are getting it cheaper than the United States can get it. I would, like the House to know that the General Dynamics Corporation has made $3 50m profit on the FI 11. So I think that everything the Labor Party has said on this matter in this House has been vindicated. Lastly, I would like to remind the Minister again that I did go to his offices but they were closed. I would have spoken on this subject that evening but for the fact the Deputy Speaker decided to vacate the chair. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Why has his Department let tenders for the purchase and removal of the wreck of HMAS Warrnambool' sunk near Cape York in 1947. 
1  ask the Prime Minister a question. What action does he propose to take to see that Commonwealth constitutional power is not transgressed in relation to the statement yesterday by  Sir Henry  Bolte in the Victorian Parliament that his Government would freeze the shares of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd until an inquiry into the Ansett-TNT takeover is held? What further action does the Prime Minister propose to take to prevent the shareholders of Thomas Nationwide Transport 
Ltd losing their rights and privileges at the hands of his Party colleagues in the Senate? Further, is it a fact that the only reason the action has been taken in this matter both in Victoria and Canberra is the heavy subscription of Ansett based funds to the Liberal Party and the Australian Democratic Labor Party? 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
What is the location of Commonwealth land holdings and properties within the Municipality  of  Bankstown in New South Wales. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many aircraft movements have taken place at Bankstown Airport in each of the last 10 years. 
Can he project what the movements will be in 1976. 
Can he say how many movements would saturate present facilities. 
Could the expansion of Hoxton Park Airport activities relieve Bankstown Airport of some air traffic congestion, particularly in regard to flying school flights. 
I address a question to the Treasurer, following on a question asked earlier by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun).  Yesterday the Treasurer introduced into this House a White Paper on foreign investment. That paper revealed an appalling shortage of up-to-date statistics in relation to the flow of foreign money into Australia. How does the Treasurer justify his attitude on beneficial foreign investment in Australia when the foreign exchange regulations of the Reserve Bank are not being used, at least to the extent that there is no real screening of money coming in or the destination of that money? I remind the Treasurer that amounts under $250,000 a day may be brought into Australia without coming under the scrutiny of the Reserve Bank. Would it be fair to say that imports of money up to $240,000 every day would not have to be reported to the Reserve Bank? Does not this practice contrast with the supervision by the Department of Customs and Excise of goods imported, bearing in mind that even for very small articles or quantities of goods numerous documents must be prepared and submitted? 
I should like to say something in opposition to the amendment. As my colleague the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  said, it makes a sham of the legislation introduced by the Government. It limits the advertising against cigarettes to a mere 3 seconds. Of course, this is consistent with the whole attitude of this Government with regard to radio and television. The Government is a lackey to special interest groups. It is particularly a lackey to the media, and always has been. When one looks at the multi-media combinations in Australia - I have been paying particular attention to them - one realises that no other country would stand for those multimedia combinations as we do. In the United States of America the Federal Communications Commission busted the newspaper and television monopolies but this Government has done nothing in that direction. A couple of months ago the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  introduced legislation into this House to extend the provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act so that a Labor Government on taking office at the end of this year would not be able to interfere with the provisions of licences granted to television companies or radio companies during what is expected to be Labor's first 3 years of office. I assure the Government that ingenuity will not cease and Labor will at least attempt to break up the multi-media combinations. 
It is well known that the Labor Party owns a number of radio stations and to prove our good faith we will move amendments to ban all cigarette advertising on radio and television, thereby denying revenue to companies that we own ourselves. Labor is prepared to do this. On the other hand, the Government is not even prepared to allow a reasonable sort of advertisement on television indicating the evils of cigarette smoking. That is typical of the attitude of this Government. A couple of weeks ago we saw the Government lackeying to Ansett interests against Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd. We have seen the Government lackeying all the way through to special television interests. What is the Minister's pecuniary interest in this? I understand - and no doubt he will correct me if I am wrong - that he was or still is a Director of Chandlers Ltd of Brisbane, a radio broadcasting company. That company would benefit to a major extent from cigarettte and tobacco advertising. No doubt if one were to look closely at the Government ranks one would find quite a lot of members holding pecuniary interests of this nature and it would be to their benefit to see cigarette advertising going to radio and television companies. It is time that an honest government had a look at radio and television in Australia and the government broke up the existing multi-media combinations so that there might be some fairness in the media of this country. It is worth repeating that the Australian Labor Party intends to give the Australian Broadcasting Commission, as part of its federal platform, a newspaper in each of the capital cities. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I think the honourable gentleman is getting a little far from the subject of the amendment. 
Labor intends to break up the multi-media combinations and all the Government intends to do is keep the special interest groups lackeyed to - particularly the cigarette companies and tobacco companies - and keep the money pouring in to the radio and television industries. One does not need to be a genius to work this out. Any doctor will agree that many people who die from coronary occlusions and heart attacks die because of a high nicotine content in their system which, particularly in the winter months, restricts arteries to the point where people suffer these attacks. It may not be proved conclusively but the statistics certainly indicate that if people who suffer these attacks had been non-smokers the heart attack may not have taken place. The best thing that any reasonable Government can do is ban all cigarette and tobacco advertising. However, that would be the honest thing to do and this Government would not do it. This Government is the lackey of the special interest groups and they would not cop it. Money would not come into the compaign coffers and that is what it is all about in this election year, the first election in 23 years at which this Government looks like being defeated. I oppose the amendment. I think it makes a sham of the legislation and it reflects no credit on the Postmaster-General to accept this sort of amendment which obviously he has had one of his backbenchers move for him. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did the Commonwealth secure a Special Purpose (Aviation) zoning from the New South Wales State Planning Authority for the Riverwood Golf Course adjacent to Bankstown Airport. 
Does the Commonwealth still intend to acquire the golf course to expand the Bankstown Airport; if so, when. 
If acquired, what is the intention of the Department of Civil Aviation regarding the use of the land in the immediate term. 
If immediate development of the land is not envisaged, would the Minister consider leasing the land for continued use as a golf course until it is required by the Department. 
I would like to speak for only a few minutes on the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2), in relation to section 26 (a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act, in order to cover one or two aspects of the Bill. I think that the Act is to be changed mainly in an attempt by the Government to buy off the stock exchange interests and the large investors and to get them off its back because the turnover in most Australian stock exchanges has dropped drastically since the share boom of 1969 and 1970. One of the express intentions of this piece of legislation is to allow people to buy shares and then sell them without paying income tax, if the shares are purchased and sold through the stock exchange. People cannot buy shares in private companies and have the sama qualifications applied. 
Therefore, I put it to the House that the whole premise for this piece of legislation is wrong. We should not be supporting the stock exchanges in this sense, because when one looks at the history of the Australian stock exchanges it will be seen that it is not a history of which anyone could be proud. During the share boom of 1969, 1970 and 1971 we witnessed the fall of stocks such as Mineral Securities Australia Ltd, Leopold and others in respect of which the stock market just watched the small investor do his money while the large investors - the smarties who were company directors and who were making decisions amongst themselves before board meetings of half a dozen interested investors - were able to sell their stock at the right time before geologists reports and the like. They were capitalising upon investments made by the small investors. In my opinion, the stock exchanges have not acted as responsible organisations in Australia and should have been dealt with by this Government at an earlier stage in their development instead of being pandered to as they are in this legislation. 
Frankly, I cannot see any reason why we should not leave the Act as it presently stands, with the discretion on share profits being left to the Commissioner of Taxation. I think that, when people who are dealing in shares submit an income tax return and either claim a loss or seek to evade the paying of tax on profits, we can bet London to a zack on that the assessor who is handling the taxation return will know whether the person's claim is genuine and, with some preliminary investigation, it would not take very long to establish whether that person is trying to pull the wool over the eyes of officers of the Taxation Office. As the situation stands now, the criteria laid down in this Bill are that tax will not be payable if: 
The shares in question were listed on a stock exchange at the time of acquisition by the person, or within 3 months afterwards. 
The person had not acquired the shares as an Incident of a business carried on by him and had not formally notified the Commissioner of Taxation that they had been acquired by him for the purpose of profit-making by sale. 
The person had continued to be the owner of the shares for a period of 18 months or more. 
The shares were acquired by the person on or after 12th April 1972. 
I think that the Government hastened to add the last provision in the statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  when introducing this legislation a couple of weeks ago. When he first gave notice of the legislation, he omitted to say that it would come into effect as from 12th April 1972. Of course, the thousands of small investors who now are taking advantage of the provisions of section 26 (a) with a notification under section 52 natuarlly would have been denied the tax reduction on losses that they had made on shares if this Bill had not been operative as from 12th April. I think that the Government realised that it would have lost a packet of votes had lt not amended the legislation in this way. 
However, the legislation is open to a lot of abuses. One of them may be that now the Commissioner has been told that he must interpret the Act in a certain way and, if a person holds shares for more than 18 months and does not notify the Commissioner that they were bought with the intention of resale at a profit, the Commissioner may feel in respect of all assessments coming before him that shares sold after being held for less than 18 months can be viewed more or less as speculative purchases and therefore the fine discretion previously applied would not now be necessary. So, an investor would have to prove to the Commissioner, if for instance he had to liquidate his shares before the period of 1 8 months had elapsed and he had not notified the Commissioner, that he had bought the shares for investment and not for resale at a profit. Similarly, if for some reason he had to liquidate his shares before 12 months had elapsed and had happened to buy the shares at the start of the financial year and had not then notified the Commissioner, under the terms of this Bill he would have the onerous task of trying to convince the Commissioner of Taxation that the shares were a genuine investment and were not just bought with the intention of resale at a profit. So, I think that a number of very bad aspects will result from this piece of legislation. 
Perhaps the main bone of contention by the Opposition about this legislation will be the manipulation of this amendment to the Act by the big investors. I think it is fair to say that the individuals who make money out of shares are the people who are able to buy up growth stocks or who buy stocks that are likely to appreciate in value. These stocks could provide large investors with a windfall after the 18 months has elapsed. One of the curious aspects of this Bill is that it does not require a person buying shares to notify the Commisisoner before the end of the financial year in which he buys them. So, if the investor buys his shares early in the financial year and lodges his return at the end of that year, he has had 12 months to see how the stock is progressing. If it does not look as though the stock will be of any value, he can then tell the Commisisoner that he intended to sell the stock for profit. If the stock goes bad he can claim a loss. Of course, he has had 11 or 12 months in which to look at the position, and if it looks as though the stock will be all right he goes very quietly, waits for the other  6  months to pass and then gets a nice little increment from it. 
 The only people whom this legislation will help will be the large investors - the sort of shonky dealers behind Patrick and Co. and Queensland Mines Ltd. One can see such people right across the scene in the stock exchanges, particularly in Sydney and Melbourne. One does not have to be a taxation expert to wheedle them out. Reading through some of the stories in the Australian Financial Review' one would be well aware of the people who have worked most of the lurks. What we are really doing with this piece of legislation is trying to bolster those rotten stock exchanges when, in fact, we should have been cutting them down to size. So I think that this is a bad piece of legislation for that very reason. 
It should be left to the discretion of the Commissioner of Taxation to decide whether certain stock was bought for resale at a profit or whether it was bought for investment - I think that he would be able to make a correct assessment - rather than to have this provision which supposedly is designed to attract the money of the small investor. We all know that the small investor has never made money; it is the big investor who makes money. It is he who makes the windfall. The big investor is always protected, and always has been protected by this shabby Government. Whether this legislation will benefit the stock exchanges or the large investors, we can bet that the little fellow will not get a look in. 
Section 26(a) in itself is a dubious provision. As the honourale member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  said earlier, it provides for a capital gains tax by stealth, and if we are going to look at the question of capital gains, we should look at it in  a  comprehensive way. But as it is now, we have the worst of both worlds - a capital gains tax and a sort of selective capital gains tax where the lurk merchants can get away with a windfall without paying tax. The people who are not familiar with section 52 of the Act - the butcher and the greengrocer who buy shares in share booms - are the ones who lose their money and do not get any gains or concessions at all. 
Although the Opposition has decided not to oppose the Bill, I think that it contains very bad provisions. It is just another example of this Government's attempting to introduce legislation to help its cronies and those who support it financially at election time. This is the main reason why the legislation has been introduced - not to clear up the Income Tax Assessment Act, but to help the stock exchange attract more unsuspecting investors. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
What is the location and value of (a) real estate and (b) plant and equipment leased from the Commonwealth by (i) Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty Ltd and (ii) Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd. 
What is the consideration involved for the leases. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has an actuarial comparison been made by the Government of the relative values of elective cash retirement benefits currently available to members of the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales and Members of the House of Representatives. 
If so, win he make the information available to members. 
If a comparative study has not been made, will he arrange for this to be done. 
Will the Government introduce a similar scheme of retirement benefits to that available to Members of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly; if not, why not. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many public servants received a salary equal to or in excess of the $9,500 paid to Members of Parliament as at (a) 20th November 1968 (last date of adjustment), (b) 8th December 1971 (date of introduction of the Parliamentary Allowances Bill 1971) and (c) 23rd May 1972. 
I should like to make a couple of general comments before I begin my speech. Firstly, my speech, of necessity, will be the first off the cuff speech in this debate. It will not be a read speech. Unlike the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay),  members of the Opposition do not have the advantage of having the Public Service behind them to hand out ministerial speeches. This defence statement was made yesterday and we have to debate it today, when those of us who are interested in questions like the DDL destroyer programme have most of our files in our electorate offices. There is no notice given of these major debates but there ought to be. We are left in the position where we have to scratch information together from scant resources so as to answer speeches which are handed by departments to Ministers to be read. 
It is right, and the Minister knows it. The Australian Labor Party welcomes any effort by this Government in the area of defence. It is common knowledge that over the last 23 years this Government has failed totally in this area. The 5-year rolling plan, which is very high in the Government's list of election ploys this year, was introduced by a former Minister for Defence,  Sir Allen  Fairhall, years ago. But every 3 years the 5-year plan gets a shot in the arm, and that is invariably in an election year. The Government has failed in issues like foreign policy. It has introduced a Budget which is purely and simply designed to catch votes. The foresight of the Budget will end in about November, just in time for the election. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  ran all over South East Asia in the parliamentary recess in order to create an issue out of defence and foreign policy, only to find that the Malaysian Government said that it did not care whether or not we retained Australian troops in that country. So the forward defence concept fell apart on the Government once again. The Prime Minister tried to cause some problems in the oil industry in order to create an industrial confrontation situation, but that also failed. So with his election strategy in tatters the Prime Minister has only 2 things left: The Budget with which to buy votes and the good old well worn issue of defence. So out comes the 5-year rolling plan again. 
An amount of $7,000m is to be spent on defence in the next 5 years. It is worth remembering that the amount of $7,000m is no more than the amount spent in the past. It represents 3.4 per cent of the gross national product with an annual increase, on the Minister's own figures, of 4.7 per cent on 1972 prices. Looked at in that context, it will probably mean that less will be spent on defence in the next few years than has been spent on defence in the past. This Government has an appalling record in defence, and this whole thing is again a ploy to catch votes. 
I should like to refer to a couple of points which the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  made in his speech. He said: 
We are developing forces specifically capable of acting in the broad maritime and archipelago surrounds of the continent if this should be needed no less than in defence of our beaches and our hinterland. We reject all policies which would, whether by doctrine or by the de facto denial of external facilities or suitable equipment, confine our Services to no more than a continental role. 
That is the policy of the Australian Labor Party. In my 3 years in this Parliament I have never seen such a dramatic change. I could hardly believe what the Minister read out. The Government has adopted our policy. The Minister talks about forward defence but, as I said today to the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison),  there is not one over-shore assault ship in the Services of this country. So it is ridiculous to talk about forward defence. Basically, this is a Fortress Australia approach - keeping our own defence strong and having the capacity io work in the archipelago environment. This is what the Australian Labor Party has been advocating for many years. 
Let us now look at the whole position surrounding the DDL destroyers. Basically, the 5-year rolling programme is designed to provide capital equipment for the Services. It is to provide capital equipment for the Services. There are 3 new DDL destroyers. There is the modernisation and updating of the Charles F. Adams DDG guided missile destroyers. There is the extended refit of the River class destroyers. Anti-submarine helicopters are being obtained together with the acquisition of the Nomad aircraft for the Army and what was formerly the Australian made Victa aircraft, is now being purchased from New Zealand for the Australian Army also. On the question of the DDL destroyers, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  as reported at page 205 of yesterday's Hansard described the destroyers in this way: 
The new destroyers will have an area air defence system, a medium range gun, ship-launched antisubmarine torpedoes, appropriate sensors, an automated command and control system to ensure the effective integration of these weapons and sensors, and they will be able to carry 2 helicopters fitted with armament and surveillance equipment. This weapon fit, the requirement for good endurance and prudent allowance for later development, dictate a ship size of about 4,000 tons. 
The Minister proceeded to put to the House the theory that we would be better off with a couple of these very expensive vessels rather than with what the Opposition has advocated over the last couple of years, that is, the acquisition of more but less expensive vessels. The Minister said further: 
The estimated comprehensive project investment cost, including these additional items, is $355m, in 1972 prices, for 3 ships. 
That is in excess of $100m per ship. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  said this afternoon, it would he impossible for us to look at equipment as expensive as this on a very wide ranging basis. 
I wish to refer to what the Minister for the Navy said in the handout that was part of the naval briefing received by :he Deputy Leader of the Opposition on thi DDLs. The Minister stated that the DDL was a Daring class replacement. He said that it had to have a capability for area air defence, that is, surface-to-air missiles. He said that nowhere in the world were area defence missiles fitted to ships of less than 3,500 tons. The Minister said further that the same ship had to defend itself against submarine attack and had deckmounted torpedo tubes. It had a 5-inch gun to defend itself against cruise missiles. He also mentioned that the ship had to defend itself against the likes of the Russian Badger bomber and MIG fighters. In other words, this ship has to do everything. Yet, over the years, the Government has told us that it has bought different pieces of naval equipment for different purposes. The DDGs were basically area air defence vessels. Apparently they are now being viewed as inadequate because they do not encompass all of the roles envisaged for the DDL. The Daring class destroyers - that is, HMAS Vampire', HMAS 'Vendetta' and HMAS Duchess' - are basically anti-submarine craft. The River class vessels - that is, HMAS 'Yarra', HMAS 'Parramatta'. 
HMAS 'Stuart', HMAS 'Derwent', HMAS Swan' and HMAS Torrens'- are basically anti-submarine vessels also. 
Why do we now need a ship that has a mix of all these qualities when in the past we have purchased vessels with specific capacities, perhaps buying them at a lower price. The Australian Labor Party is of the opinion that we should not be investing in vessels as expensive as these are. But, by the same token, the Labor Party believes that if any vessels are to be built they should be built in Australia and designed here. We have no naval design capacity. Unlike the aircraft industry, naval shipbuilding should be given a chance before it disappears completely. The Minister spoke about the Russian Sverdlov cruisers and the Kashin class cruisers and then he went on to talk about the Osa and Komar class patrol boats. He said when speaking of the Labor Party's proposal for the Osa and Komar type vessels that one could not really think we would then have anything with adequate sea-keeping capability or effective strike power or endurance. But there is one vessel that the Minister has forgotten to mention. It is the 'Nanuchka' which is the NATO name given to the new Soviet vessel. 1 wish to read an extract from the United States 'Armed Forces Journal' which might be of interest to the Minister. It states: 
Soviet ship-to-ship missile capabilities are being greatly enhanced by a new class of missile ship, NATO-code-named 'Nanuchka'. According to naval sources, 8 to 10 of the 230-foot craft have already been built in a Leningrad shipyard. 'Nanuchka' displaces 700 to 800 tons and has a speed of over 25 knots. 
Main armament is 2 triple launchers for SS-N-9 surface-to-surface missiles mounted amidships. Characteristics of the new missile are not yet available, but in size - and presumably in range - it is between the 21 -foot, 25-mile Styx ... and the 36-foot, 450-mile 'Shaddock' mounted on destroyers and cruisers. 
This vessel of approximately 800 tons has a missile with a range between 25 miles and 450 miles which would far surpass the capacity of the DDLs. This article continues: 
Secondary armament consists of a 57mm dualpurpose twin mount aft and ASW rocket launchers. There is also a mount ring on the forecastle for a gun or, more probably, a new short-range surface-to-air missile still under development. 
This vessel has surface-to-surface missiles as well as surface-to-air missiles. To use the Government's parlance, it would have area defence capability as well as defence against attacking aircraft. The article continues: 
An ample suit of search and fire control radar and electronic counter measures is evident in the radomes, dishes, and  blackboxes  topside. 
Advent of the  'Nanuchkas'  has twofold significance. The numerous 84-foot  'Komar'  and the 123-foot A..., boats are armed with the shortrange (23 mile) Styx missile and 30mm AA guns. Their small size limits their range and  seakeeping  ability. This, means they cannot operate on the high seas with the Soviet fleet, or as a long-range screen against American aircraft carriers in the Mediterranean, Barents, or Norwegian Seas.  'Nanuchka.  wilh range and  seakeeping  qualities inherent in its larger size and its longer range missiles, can do both tasks. Thus, it adds a new dimension to Soviet miva! capability by filling the shiptoship missile gap between the inexpensive but numerous coastwise  'Komars'  and  'Osas'  and the expensive and fewer seagoing, 6,000-ton  'Kynda', Kresta',  and  'Krivak'  frigates with their longrange Shaddock missiles. 
That information rather shoots the Minister's argument down in flames, does it not? It means that the Soviet Navy has developed a vessel which does all of the things that our DDLs will do, but the Soviet vessel does them using less manpower. Although it is of a smaller size it has the same strike power as the DDL. Yet we did not have the ingenuity even to look at this concept. We intend to buy a vessel of 4.000 tons, heavier than the DDGs, when our original design started at 2,500 ions. This is a classic example of the Government's lack of control over the area of defence planning. The Government appears as a pawn in the games of the Service departments and the Department of Defence. 
While looking at the DDLs, we should consider the further concept of a platform ship. 1 have never heard this mentioned by the Government, but I know that a number of defence planners are thinking in the direction of a platform ship equipped with Harrier type vertical take-off and landing aircraft. Considering the lengthy coast that wc have and our capacity to produce Harrier aircraft in Australia, it would appear that the platform ship is a logical development for our maritime defences. The Harrier aircraft is a reasonably simple aircraft to construct and we would be well able to carry out its manu facture. These platform ships are of comparatively simple design and well within our shipbuilding capacity, lt would have adequate sea-keeping. We would have adequate strike power. At the same time, we could use land-based Harriers to work in unison with sea-based platform ship Harriers. This concept, I think, has more to recommend it than an expenditure of in excess of $100m for each of 3 destroyers of 4,000 tons. Probably most of the time one of those 3 destroyers would be in port for overhaul while only 2 would be on active duty. So, for a coastline of 12,000 miles we would have 2 DDLs on active duty at a cost in excess of $300m. We just cannot afford this sort of programme. 
A few minutes only remain for me to speak. I wish to cover a couple of other matters. In his paper, the Minister for Defence mentioned maritime reconnaissance aircraft. It is worth while informing the House that only a month ago the Royal Australian Air Force was prepared to buy the latest generation of Lockheed P3 Orion aircraft from the United States to replace its Neptunes. Not all the cost comparisons, I believe, were taken out. Those that were taken out were used. I believe, in an unfair comparison with a fully equipped Hawker Siddeley Nimrod aircraft. This has apparently created quite a stir in defence circles. It has now gone back for a big rethink. It is another Fill story. The Royal Australian Air Force rushed straight to the United States and ordered the Fill with the Government signing on the dotted line. We nearly had the same thing over again. I would like to see the Parliament follow this aspect of reequipment in the future. 
Let me refer now to the basic trainer. The 37 New Zealand CT4 air trainers that we intend to buy to replace the Winjeel trainer will cost S3. 248m. It is worth reminding the House that this aircraft was designed in Australia and manufactured in Australia as the Victa airtourer aircraft. It would still be an Australian enterprise and an Australian industry if the Government had had the foresight to help that company survive when it needed some assistance. The company went to the Tariff Board and was knocked back. That decision was ratified by the Parliament and by the Government. So the Victa finally disappeared from the Australian scene, IS was sold to New Zealand, and now we are buying the aircraft from there. It is all evidence to prove that this Government has not tried to do anything with Australian defence. Its aircraft industry is falling apart Its naval shipbuilding capacity is almost nil. The state of our defence preparedness is no better now than it was in 1941. 
I desire to ask a question of the Treasurer. Did the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund advance large loans at low interest rates to companies of the Sydney land developer Parkes Developments Pty Ltd? If so, why did the Government permit it to do so rather than advance the funds to Public Service building societies, whereby public servants could have stood to benefit? Will the Treasurer investigate whether any of the Parkes Developments group of companies has serving on its board a supporter of the Government - in fact, a former Treasurer - in an endeavour to ascertain whether a conflict of interests exists in these transactions? 
The listening public of Australia would not believe that what we just heard was a Minister attempting to defend the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden);  rather would they think it was a speech written by someone else and read b&gt; the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes).  Unlike most members of the Opposition who make their speeches from copious notes, all Government Ministers read their speeches. However, I wish to deal primarily with the Budget. Firstly, 1 support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitiam).  This Budget is nothing more than an accountant's fiddle. It is dressed up to provide this degenerate Government with a fillip to its sagging electoral prospects. The Treasurer says that it is the correct economic response in the present economic climate, protesting that it is not designed to buy votes. But the fact of the matter is that in bringing down the Budget the Treasurer has earned the nickname of 'two dollar Bill' because he has attempted to buy the votes of the Australian voting population with a $2 tax handout. 
I suppose one could say that any corrective economic measures in this economic climate would be the correct response because the Government so fouled the Budget nest 12 months ago that anything would be welcome now to give a stimulus to the Australian economy. Last year the Government budgeted for a recession which has now resulted in 100,000 people being out of work and 200,000 people being on the rural dole. The Treasurer's strategy was to create a pool of unemployment in order, as he said, to reduce the number of unfilled job vacancies and to prevent union absenteeism. He did all these things in the guise of limiting demand. He limited demand all right - to the point of a major economic recession. The Treasurer says that this Budget is economically sound. It does the right things to get the Government out of its difficulty. In fact, it is convenient for the Government to hand out its electoral bribes masked as responsible economic measures. 
This is the third Budget to be brought down in 8 months. In December of last year we saw a panic stricken Government lower the statutory reserve deposits at the Reserve Bank in order to inject money into the economy. In February the Government brought in other legislation dealing with States grants and unemployment benefits, again to try to overcome the unemployment situation and the economic slump. Now, in August, the Government has brought down its third Budget in 8 months. What is now being done is 12 months too late. What does this Budget do. anyway? Firstly, it provides for a 10 per cent average cut in income tax; pensions will be increased by Si. 75 for a single person; there is provision for the means test to be phased out in 3 years - this is something which 3 years ago the Government said the Labor Party would be unable to do because the money would not be available. But now the Government can do it within 3 years. So, after 23 years in office the Government is trying to save its bacon by phasing out the means test over 3 years. 1 turn now to the tax cuts because this is the main thing around which the Government hinges its Budget. It has provided for income tax to be cut by 10 per cent. But this is still a very iniquitous tax scheme. A table prepared by Professor Hogan of the University of Sydney - I will seek leave to have the table incorporated in Hansard -shows that to a man with an annual income of $2,000 . and supporting a wife and one child that tax cut represents a rise of 1.56 per cent in after tax income and to a man on $15,000 a year it represents a rise of 4.9 per cent. In other words, a person earning $15,000 a year receives an increase of 4.9 per cent in his after tax income, while a person on $2,000 receives only a 1.56 per cent increase. There is a lot of equality in that! An increase of 4.9 per cent of $15,000 represents a hell of a lot more money than an increase of 1.56 per cent of $2,000. I seek leave to have that table incorporated in Hansard. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="079131197208291_61_0.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. Without changing the taxation schedules, this year the Government would have collected in taxation revenue $871m additional to that collected last year. This represents an increase over last year's figure of 23.1 per cent in taxation revenue collected. The Government now proposes to hand back 10 per cent of that increase. But when one looks at the tables attached to the Treasurer's Budget Speech one finds that pay-as-you-earn income tax collection last year amounted to $2,888m and this year they will amount to $3,278m, an increase of $390m. That increase is despite the 10 per cent reduction. On the same page we find that last year income tax revenue received from those people who come into the category of 'others' - that is, people who do not pay pay-as-you-earn tax, such as those who are self-employed, including tradesmen and professional people - amounted to $880m. This year these people will pay $929m, which represents an increase of $49m. So, the total increase for those 2 categories is $439m, even though the Government has provided for a 10 per cent reduction. In spite of the Government's handout, it will still collect an additional S439m in income tax revenue; so there is no real relief at all. 
It is well known that for every 1 per cent increase in earnings there is a corresponding 2 per cent increase in tax collections. In the current year the Treasury is working on the basis of an increase of 9 per cent in average weekly earnings, which means that taxation revenue will increase by twice that amount. This 18 per cent increase means that next year taxation revenue will increase by $800m. So we have the evil genius of the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  who as Treasurer back in 1954 drew up iniquitous tax schedules which over the years have forced the taxpaying public of Australia into higher tax brackets and added to costs and inflationary pressures. It is interesting to look at some of the statistics which show the way in which people have been moved into higher tax brackets although they are on the same level of real income. 
In 1951 there were 122,000 taxpayers, representing 3.74 per cent of the total taxpaying population in the $3,000 to $8,000 income earning group. In 1969 there were 2,164,000 taxpayers in the same group. So in that period the number increased from 122,000 to 2,164,000. In 1951, 0.12 per cent of taxpayers received incomes in excess of $30,000 and paid 19.7 per cent of the total tax collected. In 1969 only 0.07 per cent of taxpayers were in this bracket, and they were paying only 3.56 per cent of the total tax collected. Similarly, 20 years ago 90 per cent of tho work force received incomes of less than $2,000 a year. At that time the taxation system was such that those on incomes above $4,000 a year were taxed heavily, and this could be viewed with approval as being just and equitable. Today more than 40 per cent of the work force earn between $3,000 and $8,000 per annum. From these people is collected 50 per cent of the total tax revenue. Although 20 yean ago there were 122,000 taxpayers in this group, today there are 2 million. 
This gives some idea of the way in which people have been forced, through inflation, into higher income tax brackets without the taxation schedules being changed at ali. The Government has earned no disfavour by bringing in this type of legislation, but it has been collecting $500m, $600m, $700m and $800m extra taxation revenue a year because of it. So, the cost of the schemes that the Labor Party wanted to introduce in 1969 - its national health scheme, its welfare proposals, its education policies and its national development policies - can be met because the money is available. The Government has been playing financial jiggery-pokery with the accounts of this country for 23 years and now everybody is aware of it. 
The Commonwealth debt, which is something that the Government is always talking about meeting, totals, according to the National Debt Commission's annual report, $2,731 billion. Against this an account called the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve has a balance of $2,744 billion which is more than the actual total Commonwealth debt in Australia. So the Commonwealth has enough money to meet its whole debt liability. 
I would like to quote from one of the Budget Papers entitled 'Commonwealth Authorities 1971-72 Bulletin No. 10' at page 45 under the heading 'Trust Fund: Investments'. Here we find that the Commonwealth Government has invested 
S2,572,506,000 in its own securities. In other words, this Government has put away over the last 10 years $2.57 billion in its own securities and is paying interest from Consolidated Revenue to securities that it holds. One would not believe that but it is true. It is paying from its own funds interest on its own securities. Allocations to the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve, quoting again from the 'Commonwealth Authorities Bulletin No. 10'. in 1967-68 were $3 12.7m, 1968- 69 $226.7m, 1969-70 $578.4m, 1970-71 $430.9m and in 1971-72 $523.5m. This year the Government is talking about an overall deficit but it still plans to put $127.9m into this fund. So we find that the Fund now stands at $2.7 billion. Under the heading 'Loan Consolida'.ion and Investment Reserve' the report of the Auditor-General for the year 1971-72 says: 
In accordance with the Act, moneys standing to the credit of the Reserve may be invested in securities of, or guaranteed by, the Commonwealth, or on deposit at any bunk. Interest received from the investments is credited to the Reserve. 
At page 26 we find that the interest on investments for the financial year 1971-72 totals $88,688,393. One can imagine the amount of money the Government has invested to get $88m in interest. But these investments are made in the Commonwealth's own securities. So when the Government say that it cannot increase pensions by a few dollars a week or talks about improving its miserable' welfare programmes it should be remembered that it has been socking away $500m a year into this fund which is to meet only a contingent liability, a liability which will not arise. At the moment we have $2.7 billion in the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve. This year the Commonwealth will collect $439m more in tax. Next year an additional $800m tax will be collected. So a Labor government coming into office this year will have at its disposal in 1973 $3.98 billion for its programmes. So let us not talk of a Labor government not being able to finance its proposals. It could afford any of its schemes. In fact the Prime Minister said only a few weeks ago that 'the Commonwealth always has the power to be able to pay for the promises it makes and the legislation it introduces'. 
I have proved conclusively from the Budget documents that there is $3.9 billion which a Labor government can use in its programmes to establish Australia again as a country of high status in the Western world rather than a country, as it is today, with a growth rate of 3 per cent. This can be done without looking at the ways in which we can get revenue from the taxminimising multi-national corporations. 1 am talking only about revenue immediately available to the Commonwealth, not by chasing multi-national corporations or the other ways in which we can get revenue. It is interesting that the document which was produced by the Treasurer entitledOverseas Investment in Australia', in relation to the taxation of multi-national corporations, had this to say on page 83: 
The Commissioner has indicated ihat the main problem in applying the relevant provisions of the law is the practical difficulty of obtaining all the relevant information for the proper allocation of profits between related firms. This is a problem encountered by the taxation administrations of most countries. It can only be solved by an administrative judgment based on the best available information and the widest possible inquiries. Cost-company'- 
That is a company that prices its output in such a way as to cover its operating costs only -  and other price-fixing arrangements have come under lbc Commissioner's notice mainly in such industries as the petroleum and mining industries (which are characterised by interlocking international operations) - although, as the Commissioner points out, there is no reason to feel confident that profit-shifting arrangements will be confined to companies engaged in those industries. 
So there is our own Commissioner of Taxation saying how difficult it is to track down for tax purposes these multi-national corporations. On page 85 the document read: 
As one means of profit-shifting there could be, in some circumstances, a tax incentive for overseas companies to levy excessive interest charges on their affiliates in Australia, especially subsidiaries. 
That is a process called 'thin capitalisation'. What used to happen is that if a multi-national corporation invested$100m in Australia, its income from that$100m going out of Australia was taxed at normal company tax rates. What they do now in order to minimise tax is to invest$1m and borrow $99m from their subsidiaries overseas and this Government allows the interest on the $99m to be taxed at only 10 per cent. There is no company tax at normal company tax rates on interest on investments from subsidiaries. So there is a major loophole in ths tax legislation which allows subsidiaries of major overseas companies to invest in Australia and to charge interest to their Australian infant company so that that company can then minimise the tax it pays to the Australian Government. These are loopholes which we could close. There are many other schemes such as excessive royalty payments and excessive know-how payments that are going to overseas industries which we could stop and so increase the revenue to the Commonwealth. So let us be done with all this talk about where the money is coming from because 1 have just instanced $4,000m we can use. 
Statement No. 9 of the Budget Papers, dealing with assistance to industry, shows that subsidies to rural industries, are estimated at S232.59m in the 1972-73 financial year plus income tax concessions which are estimated to be around $350m. So we find going to rural industries by way of subsidy is an amount of $582.59m this year, almost half a billion dollars. 
This is the magnitude of money that is going to rural industries in Australia; yet we still have the pathetic and tragic stories of young families coming to the cities because they cannot be accommodated on rural properties. After 23 years this Government and the Country Party in particular have done nothing to restructure rural industries. We still have high rural unemployment. And even with all this money being given under the Country Party's subsidy syndrome rural industries in Australia are still in a sad position. With 8 per cent of the vote the Country Party can get its hand into the Commonwealth till. Like rats in the larder it has its hands on the treasury of the Commonwealth. For 20 electorates they are handing out something like $600m a year which means that for each Country Party electorate the Australian public is being fleeced to the tune of S30m a year. One of the national scandals of this country is that a party with 8 per cent of the vote can use the people's revenue for its own political survival. I have the utmost sympathy for rural industries. I have family members on the land and I have been connected with the land myself. This Government does not work for the small rural producers; it works for the large rural producers and the big mining companies. 
And the Pitt Street farmers, as the honourable member for Chifley has said. This subsidy syndrome costs about $500m a year. One last matter before I wind off is the question of child endowment. For years this Government has talked about what it has done with social welfare programmes. I would like to quote a few figures which would enlighten at least some people. There has been no meaningful increase in child endowment since 1949. In the latest report of the Director-General of Social Services we find that the average number of children in each family receiving child endowment is 2.18. For the first child there is a payment of SOc; that has not changed since 19S0. For the .second child there is a payment of $1; that has not been changed since 1950. So in 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Government there has been not le increase in the child endowment payments for the first and second children. It says: 'Oh, yes, but the Government has put in a payment of 50c for the third child'. But the report of the Commonwealth's Director-General of Social Services says that the number of children per family endowed is 2.18. and in only one out of 12 families is money coming from the Commonwealth for the third child. There has been no increase in the endowment for the first and second children. On page 78 of the same document we find that the average annua) amount paid per family in 1949 was $90.79, and in 1971, 22 years later, it was $105.13. So it has gone up roughly $15 in 22 years. What has the cost of living done in 22 years? In fact, the value of child endowment has dropped dramatically in that period. 
I conclude by saying that I support the amendment moved by the Opposition. This Budget is inadequate. It is an electoral sop. It is a hand-out to save this pathetic Government. I think that the members of the Australian public are sick of this cynical approach to politics and will reject this Government not just for its sins of the past 22 years but also for the sin of handing out $2 to try to buy their votes. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
by leave- I am not satisfied with the reply the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has given. In the last annual report of the Commonwealth Superannuation Board presented to the Parliament, that for 1969-70, in the summary of investments held, which appears at page 16, the amount shown for mortgages on land totalled $80.7m. Page 19 of the report shows that in New South Wales alone for 1970 investments other than in mortgages on land totalled $36.5m. A constituent approached me about this matter, and I am happy with the accuracy of the matters he put to me. The Treasurer ought to be aware of the seething discontent in the Public Service at the fact that money contributed by public servants is not available to them for loans but goes out to other organisations. The answer that the Treasurer gave,  Mr Speaker,  is just too clever by half. In his answer to the first question I raised he said, among other things: 
. . neither is it policy to lend money to land development companies secured on housing subdivisions. 
I never mentioned anything about loans secured on housing subdivisions. I talked about the companies of Parkes Developments Pty Ltd. What about its subsidiaries and nominees? I am sure that the Treasurer is aware that most loans that are advanced from the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund are on the basis of an equitable mortgage which is a floating charge over the assets of the borrowing company and not a loan secured on land subdivision. Will the Treasurer now give an assurance that he has investigated the whole position in relation to loans on mortgage, and say whether any advances have been made or are about to be made to any land development companies or their subsidiaries? Will he tabic in the House details of the mortgages made to date by the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund? The only way in which I can satisfy my constituent is for the Treasurer to table details of all mortgages made by the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund up to the present time. I ask him to do so. 
I wish to refer tonight to a matter relating to the Department of Immigration. I informed the office of the Minister of Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  that I would be raising this matter and I had hoped that he would have been here. The matter concerns a constituent of mine,  Mrs Larraine  Carbonaro who has had her 18-months old son abducted and taken to Malta by her estranged husband.  Her  husband, who is a Maltese national, had been in Australia for 9 years. He married the girl 2 years ago but they separated by mutual consent. They had a child during the period of the marriage and the child was 18 months old as at last May when he was abducted. The father visited the child regularly and returned it early in the evenings. On 31st May this year he collected the child as normal but, unbeknown to the mother, he took the child on a Qantas flight on Maltese passport No. A 12999 and flew to Malta. 
He was able to do this because the child was endorsed on his Maltese passport. I telephoned the Maltese High Commission, and the passport officer told me that it is within the provisions of Maltese law that a father can endorse his son on his own passport without the mother's consent. We have permitted a Maltese national to abduct an Australian child with impunity. The child was not subject to any court order in Australia but, had it been, our court order would have been nullified in deference to the immigration laws of another country. I think this is a hopeless position. I have spoken to officers of the Department of Immigration and they have informed me, rightly or wrongly, that the Department has no responsibility in this matter. Had the father been travelling on an Australian passport the Department would have accepted some responsibility, but, according to the officers to whom I spoke, because he was travelling on a Maltese passport the Department had no responsibility. Because of this we have the situation where an Australian child, born to an Australian mother, was taken from Australia on a Maltese passport, without her consent, and she is left in Australia with her 18-month old child in Malta. I do not know the provisions of the immigration law relative to this matter, but I should not think they would be so loose as to allow that situation to occur. If they are not so loose as that, the Commonwealth has acted at least negligently in permitting the child to be taken from Australia. 
In any. judicial separation or divorce proceedings custody is always given to the mother. Even in many cases where the mother has been a woman of ill fame the court still has given custody of the child to the mother. But we find in this case, regardless of the mother's character, the child has been taken from the country. I ask the Minister to investigate this matter and take whatever steps are necessary to have  Mrs Carbonaro  flown to Malta at the Commonwealth's expense and to provide her with legal assistance to enable her to secure a court order in that country for the custody of the child so that she may bring him back to Australia. I suggest that this should be done at the Commonwealth's expense. If the Australian immigration laws have no provision which will prevent a Maltese national registering a child on his passport without the permission of his wife or the child's mother, that loophole should be closed. Otherwise any Maltese who took a liking to an Australian child could falsify documents to prove that it was his own child, go to the Maltese High Commission and have the child's name endorsed on his passport, and take him from Australia with impunity. If this is how our immigration laws stand at the moment they contain a serious loophole which should be closed. I ask the Minister to act in this case as quickly as he can. If he requires further information on the matter I shall be very glad to supply it to him. 
I also on behalf of the Opposition support the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Bill. The Australian Labor Party has consistently supported legislation relating to the Exports Payments Insurance Corporation from the inception of the organisation through all the amendments to increase the contingent liability and the capital of the organisation. The capital has been increased only once before. That was in 1965, when it was increased from $2m to 54m. Now this Bill has been introduced to increase the capital of the organisation from $4m to $8m. The Labor Party has been particularly pleased with the Exports Payments Insurance Corporation. As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  said, the legislation under which it operates is very much a piece of -socialist legislation. Nevertheless, over the period since the Corporation's inception it has grown considerably. In the 10 years from I960 to 1970 the face value of its policies increased from $52. 8m to $343m. Since then the face value has increased from $343m to $622m in 2 years. The contingent liability of the Corporation was 524.2m in 1960. It was $190m 10 years later. It is now $375m. 
These figures give some idea of how the organisation is progressing. It is charged to be self-supporting. It operates like any other insurance company. A premium is paid for insurance given. The insurance in most cases is an insurance against nonpayment to Australian exporters. The type of cover is normal risk insurance, particularly against the type of risk which arises from buyer insolvency or default in the case of solvent buyers or political risks such as non-payment by overseas organisations in which investments have been made by Australian companies either because of the policy of a government or because of political disturbances. The overseas company can take out a cover against that. 
The last report of the organisation, that for 1971, shows that the net premium income was $1,024,849. Against this, operating costs were $585,246. The operating costs are still very high. This means that the organisation has operating costs equal to 57 per cent of premium income, which in any language is particularly high. When I spoke on the last amendment to the legislation I incorporated in Mansard a table which shows that in 1958, at the point of the Corporation's inception, operating costs as a percentage of premium income were 172 per cent. In 1959 the figure went down to 50 per cent, naturally because in the first year of the operations of the organisation its commencement costs were very high considering that it had very little business to transact. Unfortunately, operating costs as a percentage of premium income moved from 50 per cent up to the high 80s. They were 87 per cent in 1961. The figure fluctuated from about 70 per cent to the mid-60s and then settled down at about 60 per cent or 57 per cent, which is the figure at the moment. It is still fairly high. I do not know the reason for this. 
I know that the organisation provides other services such as an export rating facility so that exporters may check on the creditworthiness of organisations overseas. The expense of this service would naturally have to be met by the organisation, but operating costs are still fairly high, being 57 per cent of premiums. This is a very high price to pay to run an organisation. Offsetting that, the organisation ought to be congratulated upon the fact that in 1971, as shown by the 1971 annual report, there were claims totalling $939,000. Against this, recoveries of $693,000 were made. The report indicates that losses arose in relation to wool transactions with South Korea. The losses were so high that EPIC obviously took legal action in that country, and it has recovered $693,000 of the $939,000 claimed, which I think was commendable indeed. 
As I said earlier, the Bill increases the capital of the Corporation from $4m to $8m. Like the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, I cannot really see why this is occurring. Suffice it to say that in his statement in the annual report the Commissioner states: 
Capital remains intact at $4m. Thus, the financial resources immediately, available to the Corporation total $6,997,038 and these relate to outstanding contingent liabilities of $301,060,555. 
He mentions that the Corporation's engagement in a number of the developing countries is now well in excess of its capital and reserves. As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports said, perhaps it might make the balance sheet look a little more acceptable, but an increase of $4m to $8m really does not offset contingent liabilities of up to $301m. It seems to be pretty much a case of window dressing. 
I take up the theme which the honourable member for Melbourne Ports mentioned and which I also mentioned the last time I spoke on this subject. This organisation could be expanded in a number of areas. Firstly, it could be extended into the area of marine insurance, which is a very lucrative business in Australia. The latest figures available show that premiums on marine insurance in Australia paid to companies, most of them overseas owned - most of them British owned - was $46m. The premiums paid to EPIC total only $1.2m, so obviously there is a lot of business to be done in that area. Consistently the Labor Party has put the view that EPIC ought to be expanded to move into the field of marine insurance. Consistently the Government has rejected that view. I think it ought to be recorded here again that the former Minister for Trade and Industry,  Sir John  McEwen, had said that he had a lot of difficulty in even setting EPIC up in opposition to the views of the Liberal Party. He said: 
The birth of EPIC was delayed many  years-at  least 4 - by the barrage of criticism and opposition raised against it from inside and outside government. Interests representing private institutions such as banks, insurance companies, associations and elements even within the governmental structure, attacked, criticised and blocked the provision of this new facility by a government corporation for at least 4 years. 
He went on to say: 
I was told with monotonous regularity and with singular unanimity by the opponents of the facility that there was no need for it - worthwhile and soundly based Australian exports should need no assistance of the type other countries had; it would merely provide at government expense a hidden subsidy to prop up 'lame duck' export ventures; it could not possibly work - the premiums would be too high, the losses too great, and exporters would prefer to take their own risk; it was a duplication of existing banking and insurance facilities which were willing and able to afford all the assistance needed; such a corporation was a Socialist conception and an unwarranted intrusion by government into private business; such a corporation would provide unfair competition to private enterprise institutions, and so on. 
They are the words of the then Leader of the Country Party and then Minister for Trade and Industry in referring to the frustrations expressed by members of the Liberal Party in defence of their friends in the marine insurance field and in the field of insurance generally. The remarks are just as valid today. The Government will not expand the charter of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation into the area of marine insurance. Australia is an island continent. We are an exporting nation and we export mostly by ship. It stands to reason that we ought to have a government facility to provide marine insurance - a very lucrative type of insurance - and to assist our exporters through lower premiums. Any profits made by such an authority would go to the Commonwealth of Australia rather than to British insurance companies as happens today. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports referred to an export credit facility, a matter that requires a lot of close attention. On this subject I asked  Sir John  McEwen when he was Minister for Trade and Industry: 
Will the Government set up an export credit facility to provide finance at better than commercial terms to assist the export sales of Australian manufactured military equipment and other high value commercial exports? 
He replied: 
It is true that lower interest rates are provided by the governments of some countries that are competitive with us. It is quite clear that certain governments from time to time seek to give their exporters a competitive advantage by providing funds at lower interest rates. I have never felt that this Government could engage in an interest rate war in these circumstances. 
That is a rather ridiculous viewpoint in the light of the fact that our exporters have been chopped to pieces in the marketplaces of the world when competing with exporters from other countries who are backed by import-export banks. I have in mind exporters of all the major trading countries such as the United States of America, Great Britain, West Germany and Japan. In contradiction to the attitude of this Government to an export credit facility is that of the Commissioner of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation as expressed in his annual report for 1971. In that report he said: 
The use of credit in foreign trade has, over the last decade, progressively become a vital factor is winning business. The need to concede credit b  fust as much a characteristic of trade with the advanced countries as it is of the developing countries where the reasons are usually more evident. Concurrently with the expanding volume of world trade conducted on credit terms, there is occurring a persistent relaxation in the duration of the credit conceded for all types of goods. 
International concern is being more frequently expressed as to the long-term implications of these developments, in particular the possibilities of a credit race worsening which could act against the best interests of the major exporting nations as well as aggravating the existing heavy debt servicing burdens of many developing countries. The Union d'Assureurs des Credits Internatlonaux (Berne Union) and, more recently, the Organisation of Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) are actively engaged in efforts torationalise credit-giving. Some success is accompanying these endeavours but so strong are the competitive forces operating, that Australian exporters are not infrequently faced with the alternative of either meeting the credit competition or foregoing the business. It is in this situation that the Corporation sees its duty to give them all possible support to retain existing business and win new orders. 
They are the words of the Commissioner of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation on the need to provide our exporters with a marginal competitive advantage in relation to credit.  His  organisation cannot provide finance over extended periods of time at an interest rate of 5 per cent or 6 per cent, or even lower, as is done in other countries. Last year or the year before last Australia tried to sell Macchi aircraft to New Zealand. The assembly line manufacture of the Macchi aircraft is still operating in Australia. We did not get an order because New Zealand purchased from Great Britain aircraft not chosen on their merits but because the terms of credit offered by Great Britain were more acceptable. On high value military exports and high value manufactured exports it is often found that no payment is needed for 4 years and that the interest rate payable after that time is only about 4 per cent or 6 per cent. 
We are competing on the export markets with goods which are not marginally better priced, on which we require one-third deposit and interest rates applicable immediately at the normal domestic overdraft rate of 74 per cent. We are not in the race in trying to sell our secondary manufactures to other countries when competing with exporters from Europe, North America and Japan who have the benefit of the backing of import-export banks and private banks offering extended credit at low interest rates. 
Therefore there is a growing need to set up an export credit facility in this country. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports has mentioned that need for as long as I have been a member of this House and the Labor Party has supported that proposition. There is a crying need for that sort of facility to be created. Much to the consternation of the Liberal Party the Export Payments Insurance Corporation has proved that it can provide decent insurance services for very low rates of premium. Its premium rates have dropped consistently over the years. The same thing could happen in the field of marine insurance and an export credit facility. It is partisan and un-Australian to limit the Corporation to its present charter. It has to provide insurance against non-payment to Australian exporters for the goods they export to other countries. I personally and the Labor Party support the proposed amendment. We have always supported the principle it contains. We believe that the Export Payments Insurance Corporation is a very valuable organisation and when the Labor Party is in government next year it will extend its charter along the lines I have indicated in my speech. 
In this debate on the estimates for the Depart ment of the Treasury I would like to deal with the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund, which is administered by the Department. I want to deal with a number of aspects of it. The annual report of the Superannuation Board for 1969-70, dealing with the scope of the superannuation scheme, reads: 
The Superannuation Act 1922, as amended, provides for the establishment of two distinct and separate occupational retirement benefit schemes - a pension scheme and the Provident Account-- 
I was quoting from the annual report. It goes on to say:   . . for employees of the Commonwealth. Both schemes are financed by employee contributions, tax free income from investment of these contributions and an 'employer' contribution by the Commonwealth when the appropriate benefits fall due. 
Under section 12 of the Act the Board has power to invest employees' contributions, and interest from investments is additional income for the Fund. Investments that are allowed by the Fund in terms of section 12 of the Act are securities of the Commonwealth, loans to local government bodies in Australia, mortgages on land, and loans prescribed under trustee legislation. The latter are mainly loans to semi-governmental and other statutory authorities and loans guaranteed by the Commonwealth or by any State. I seek the leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard a table headed Summary of Investments held as at 30 June 1970'. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="080131197209140_117_0.jpg"></graphic>

The summary of investments shows that most of the moneys invested by the Fund are invested in Commonwealth securities. For 1969-70 they amounted to$83.9m. The rest under trustee legislation were invested mostly in local government and semi-governmental authorities. 1 draw the attention of the House to the fact that only $133,825 of the total investments of the Fund were invested in building societies. The report of the AuditorGeneral for 1972 shows the total investments to be $546,550,076. By comparison with the Commonwealth Fund's investment of $133,825, the New South Wales Superannuation Fund has invested $30,461,638 in building societies. The thought arises that it would be fair that Commonwealth public servants should have access to their own funds invested in building societies and be able to finance the building of their homes out of the money so invested, for the investments by the Board on behalf of the Fund are investments of employee contributions and do not include contributions by the Commonwealth. 
The honourable member for Kingsford Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  raised this matter in the House in 1971. He asked the Treasurer: 
Does section 33 of the Superannuation Act limit the Commonwealth contribution to the pension, and accordingly, does the Commonwealth not make any contribution to the fund for investment? 
The Treasurer replied: 
Yes. In accordance with section 33 of the Superannuation Act 1922-1969 the Commonwealth contributions to pensions are when the pensions are payable and these amounts are accordingly, not available for investment. 
Any amounts paid into the Fund by the Commonwealth under section 18 are available for investment. 
In simple terms that means that the only payments to the Fund are the employee contributions and the Commonwealth contribution at the point of retirement. The Commonwealth contribution is not paid into the Fund. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith asked further: 
What amounts would have been required to have been paid by the Commonwealth in each of the last 5 years to provide a ratio of 70 (Commonwealth) to 30 (employee contribution). 
The answer was that in 1964-65 the amount would have been $57,940,000; in 1965-66, $59,097,500; in 1966-67, $65,770,000; in 1967-68, $71,090,000; and in 1968-69, $82,012,500. In other words, had the Commonwealth put the money that it has to fund to retiring employees directly to the Fund and not paid it at the point of retirement, $82m would have gone into the Fund in 1968-69. Instead only $36,177,564 was put into it. The Fund is very limited in its investment potential in that only Commonwealth employee contributions go into it. Therefore, I am suggesting that perhaps the fairest way in which the Commonwealth could help its employees would be to pay this money into it immediately. Also, the interest rate on the investment by the Fund is very low. It was 5.89 per cent for the year ended June 1972. In 1967 it was 5.48 per cent and in 1963 it was 5.47 per cent. So the Fund has a pretty poor rate of return on investment. If the Board members were my investment counsellors I would sack the lot of them. They must be pretty hopeless if they cannot get above 5.5 per cent. The New South Wales State superannuation scheme returns 6.33 per cent. 
According to page 14 of the 1969-70 report, the Commonwealth invested $21. 89m out of $44m in mortgages on land during that period. One of the matters I raised a couple of months ago indicates that a lot of commercial investment is being made by money supplied from the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund. I would like to see the Board expanded to include more contributor representatives. It is obvious from the investment decisions made by the Board that the contributor representative must be out-voted 2 to 1. If he is not out-voted 2 to 1 he must be the worst representative the contributors could possibly have because the investment decisions, as I said before, are pretty hopeless. It is time that the Commonwealth looked at investing the money in its liable for directly in the Fund and gave the public servants a chance of making a quid for themselves. It should also put more of them on the Board and not just have the 3 people who are on it at the moment. I know that the investments are tax free, but that is no excuse for limiting the investment or earning potential of the Fund. 
The only way to get over this is to have the Commonwealth change the Act to expand the membership of the Board and pay this money directly to the Fund. Instead of having an income of about $30m a year, which is the same as that of the New South Wales scheme which has about half the number of contributors, the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund ought to have 2 or 3 times that. Last year it had an income $100m and it had an income to be invested of $41 in, which represented the employees' contributions. Even if this money were invested intelligently in real estate and other things by the Board it would be found that the return would be way above 5.5 per cent. Even though the Act says that money must be invested in Commonwealth securities and semi-government securities, it does not designate the percentage of the investment or the percentage of that type "of investment that must' be funded by the 'Fund. In other words, the Board could invest in anything in which it likes to invest. In particular, it ought, to make the money of contributors available for their own building societies and also boost, the, stocks of the Fund by investing in other' things that show a great potential and where it can use the inflationary effect to gel a better income. I suggest to the Government that it is time we expanded the Board to allow more contributor representatives 1 to have their say in the way their money is spent. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Supply by reminding him of the imminent retrenchments by Hawker de Havilland Aust. Pty Ltd, the Sydney element of the aircraft industry. I ask: What action does the Government intend to take to find immediate work load for this basic defence establishment to prevent it closing its doors? How can the Government claim to be concerned about Australia's defence when its key defence industries are in a state of disintegration? 
The debate on this Bill was interrupted by the introduction into the House of the paper on foreign investment in Australia presented by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and then the reply to it by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I now take up the debate again. 
The long title of the Bill is: 'A Bill for an Act to approve the Borrowing by the Commonwealth of Moneys to be made available to Qantas Airways Limited, and for purposes connected therewith'. That means that it is a Bill giving authority to borrow $25m to finance the purchase of a jumbo 747 aircraft from the Boeing Aircraft Corporation of the United States for Qantas Airways Limited. To the motion for the second reading of the Bill the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has moved the following amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'this House is of the opinion that the passage of this Bill should be delayed until (1) firm arrangements are made for substantial coproduction procedures for imported aircraft, (2)  a  select committee is appointed to inquire into and report upon the effectiveness of Qantas management and (3) the terms of the loan agreement are set forth in a schedule to the Bill'. 
I want to address my remarks to the first section of the amendment, namely, that the Bill be delayed until firm arrangements are made for substantial co-production procedures for imported aircraft. By that we mean that over the years the Australian 
Government has borrowed on behalf of Australian airlines - Qantas, TAA, Ansett or other airlines - vast sums of money for the procurement of aircraft. Our own aircraft industry is in a terrible position and massive retrenchments are envisaged at Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty Ltd, the Sydney section of the industry, and at the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation works in Melbourne, because insufficient work load is available to maintain a viable industry. That is an indictment of this Government for its lack of planning in the defence, area. It illustrates specifically its lack of resolution to guarantee that overseas aircraft manufacturers from which Australian airlines have bought aircraft are forced to meet at least some of the cost of those aircraft through offset orders; in other words, some of the cost of the aircraft purchased ought to have been offset by manufactures, by the Australian aircraft industry. I have a summary table of imports into Australia of aircraft and associated equipment compiled by the Legislative Research Service from information supplied by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. I ask for leave to have the table incorporated in Hansard. 
I wish to make a personal explanation on the same subject. 
Yes. It is common knowledge within the aircraft industry, and I repeated it in the House, that the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  made an abortive attempt to enter into a consortium to save the Australian aircraft industry and to save face for the Government. 
Yes. The Minister went overseas with officers of his Department to see companies overseas with a view to forming a consortium in Australia. If he denies that, he is misleading the House. 
-I move: 
That so much of Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Blaxland moving  a  motion in relation to dealings between Jetair and the Government in relation to the acquisition of  2  Viscount aircraft. 
In continuation of my remarks previously, this matter arises from- 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  proposed: 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 
What are you afraid of? 
Are you going to agree to this,  Mr Prime  Minister? Do you agree with the motion? 
This shows you up for what you are. 
Opposition members - No. 
Opposition members  -  Yes. 
I seek to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I do. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  implied that I misled the House by suggesting that the 2 Viscount aircraft were flown or were in the colours of and registration of the operations of Jetair Australia Ltd. They never were. 
You said that they were never flown-- 
That is correct. 
Oh! They were just part of the VIP Flight. Are you suggesting they were not airworthy? 
The reason they did not have it is that they had expired. They were in Jetair's name, and you know it. They were not exported in accordance with the tender schedule of the purchaser. They were exported by Jetair or the beneficial owner whether it be Brins, Alexander Barton or Jetair, and your reply is just too clever by half. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbetf)Order! Does the honourable gentleman claim to have been misrepresented? 
This is a very unsatisfactory matter. The truth of the matter is that the 2-airline policy was up for grabs during the period the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  was Prime Minister, I believe that the matter was spearheaded by the then Foreign Minister, Right Honourable 
William McMahon. This is why the application by Jetair Australia Ltd was proposed. One fact that has been omitted is the purchase of 2 Viscount aircraft, which is very significant- 
I move the suspension of Standing Orders. 
 Mr Speaker,  can I seek your guidance? Can I move that so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent me from further debating the matter? 
Can I move to suspend the standing order that guarantees the 25 minutes for this debate? 
 Mr Speaker,  in that case 1 shall ask the Prime Minister for leave to continue my statement. 
 Mr Speaker,  can you explain to me why I cannot move the suspension of the standing order that guarantees the debate in the first instance? 
 Mr Speaker- 
Standing Orders require that I must put the question after the time for debate on the motion has expired. 
I will move the same motion. 
Opposition members - Aye. 
Government supporters - No. 
Opposition members - Yes. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Whitlam's)  be agreed to. 
I second the amendment. I rise to speak to this matter because I want to pose a few questions to the Government. Why, in 1970, did Jetair of Australia Ltd profit by $200,000 by using dummy nominees by the names of Peter Hookway and Stanair Ltd of the United States of America to purchase and re-sell 2 surplus VIP Viscount aircraft? Secondly, why did the Government allow this illegal transaction to take place when it had prevented Australians from buying the planes by stipulating that they could not be operated in Australia? Thirdly, what action does the Government now propose to take to make Jetair disgorge this profit which was made to the detriment of all other Australian operators who would have given a much higher price to be able to use the Viscounts in Australia? The reason I alluded to the 2-airline policy earlier was that the only way anyone can operate aircraft in Australia in contravention of the 2-airline policy is if they have suitable aircraft within Australia to enable them to do so. The Commonwealth governs civil aviation in Australia through its customs powers but if an operator has suitable aircraft he can have access to airports and fly them on trunk routes. DC3 aircraft could not be flown profitably on major trunk routes, but Viscount aircraft could be. The 2 former VIP Viscount aircraft were very low hour planes. They were purchased by the Government for the Viscount fleet for $2.381m, according to the Hansard records. They were sold 6 years later to  Mr Peter  Hookway, acting as the nominee of a United States company, beneficially owned by Jetair, for $173,000, which was half their real market value. Everybody knows that it is a condition of sale of surplus aircraft in Australia that such aircraft must be exported. 
The Government allowed these aircraft to be sold to an Australian, as the nominee for an overseas firm, and to remain in Australia where they were subsequently acquired by Jetair. These aircraft were to be the muscle behind Jetair's application to destroy the 2-airline policy. Jetair would have been the third airline. The present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  was to spearhead the attack. Subsequently he was thwarted by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  or whatever other influence prevailed in the Government at that time. The crucial thing is that an airline can operate, perhaps not on the major trunk routes but between Sydney and Canberra and Canberra and Melbourne, for instance, with Viscount aircraft. A very low amount was paid for these 2 aircraft because no Australians were allowed to tender for them. The Government tendered into the world secondhand airline market when there were surplus Viscount aircraft coming on to these markets all over the world because they had reached their operational hour limit. The Government knew it would get a low tender for them. The people involved profited by securing these aircraft at half their real value. They were prepared to use them in Australia. When the business finally went flop they sold them out of Australia to a company in the United States for double what they had paid for them. These aircraft eventually ended up with some sheik in the Gulf of Persia. 
Why did the Government allow these 2 Viscount aircraft to be sold as surplus to an Australian and not exported forthwith? What breakdown of the procedures enabled these aircraft to get into the hands of Jetair particularly as they were to be the actual muscle in its application? Jetair applied for permission to import 2 French Norde aircraft but the application was refused. The only other aircraft the company had apart from the 2 Viscounts were DC3 aircraft which were in top class condition and which were fitted with top quality avionics. These aircraft were to be the second strings to the Viscounts. The Gov ernment allowed surplus aircraft to be bought by this company which was set up to compete against the 2-airline policy in Australia. I ask the Government to have the Auditor-General investigate this matter and report to the Parliament by next Tuesday on the sale of these 2 Viscount aircraft to this nominee. The purchase of the DC3 aircraft is another matter. The matter I have raised concerns the very heart of what was to be the mainstring of the Jetair application to defeat the 2-airline policy, namely, the 2 ex-RAAF VIP Viscount aircraft. I urge the Government to have the Auditor-General examine this matter and bring a report to this Parliament tor next Tuesday because this is where the smell really is, where the Prime Minister's involvement is. This should be ventilated in the House so that the people of Australia can understand the real rudiments of the Jetair affair. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Both statements are very unsatisfactory to the Opposition. Last week the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  moved a motion for the suspension of standing orders. Part (a) of his motion called for the tabling of all files held by the Department of Civil Aviation relating in any way to the dealings with Jetair Australia Ltd. 'AH files relating in any way' means just that. We would like to see the letters from Ansett Airlines Ltd, including the letters from  Sir Reginald  Ansett, to the Government complaining about any breaches of or any possible breakdown in the 2-airline policy because we believe that this is where the root cause of the problem with Jetair has arisen. It arose from one or two angles. Either some elements in the Government were trying to break the 2-airline policy and were backing Jetair to do it or other elements in the Government were making counter-attempts, with the support of Ansett, to destroy Jetair, to eventually sell up its aircraft and to retain the 2-airline policy. So what the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  have tabled is not what the Leader of the Opposition asked for and is inadequate. 
It is very difficult for the Opposition to pursue this matter because it does not have access to the files. It has scant information and has to deduce and make all sorts of guestimates and then ask for additional information. Whenever the matter has been raised the Opposition has been fobbed off with unsatisfactory information. Last week I raised the question of the 2 Viscounts. The Prime Minister came into the House about an hour after I had spoken. I had said: 
I urge the Government to have the Auditor-General examine this matter and bring a report to this Parliament for next Tuesday because this is . . . where the Prime Minister's involvement is. 
He replied: 
There an answer was given by  Senator Cotton  in reply to a question asked by  Senator Bishop.  It answers the question completely.  Senator Cotton  then said: 
I should like to add something.  Senator Bishop  will probably be delighted to learn that his assumption that the Department of Civil Aviation had allowed the aircraft to which he referred to fly in Australia in the field of civil aviation is incorrect. Those aircraft have been exported from Australia in accordance with the terms of the original tender schedule. 1 repeat that at no time did they fly in Australia in a private or commercial category. 
I have with me a copy of the Senate Hansard. The question was asked by  Senator Bishop  of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. The Prime Minister very conveniently referred only to  Senator Cotton  who jumped up at the end of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's reply. What he failed to tell the House and what he must have known because he purposely overlooked it was that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson said, amongst other things: 
I do recall that there were certain circumstances associated with the breaking of the requirement for the export of the aircraft, for want of a better term. This then became a matter not so much for my Department as for the legal officers of the Crown who had before them the question of penalties, sanctions and so on. 
He went on further to say: 
Because of the difficulties associated with the alleged breach of contract the matter moved away  from my Department and into the hands of the legal officers of the Attorney-General's Department 
Why did the Prime Minister not refer to that instead of referring to what  Senator Cotton  said after  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson sat down? The question was asked by  Senator Bishop  of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, not of  Senator Cotton.  This is typical of the way the Opposition has been treated by the Prime Minister and his Ministers. 
The extra statement today on the Viscount aircraft said that the conditions on the tender schedules are three and the one applicable to the successful tenderer is that local buyers must undertake to export the aircraft outside Australian territory. So why was the successful tenderer,  Mr Peter  Hookway, who was in this category, not forced to export the aircraft? An article in yesterday's 'Canberra Times' reads as follows: 

 Mr Hookway said he had an agreement to sell the Viscounts to Western Air of Albuquerque, New Mexico. Before the sale was due to be completed he had been advised by Western Air that they were bringing another company into the transaction. 
Western Air had apparently had difficulty in raising the money to buy the Viscounts and had approached the Aida Corporation of Houston, Texas. 
It was part of my contract with Aida and Western Air that they would adhere to the necessary condition of the tender schedule TV572/4/24. This required that the aircraft be exported', he said . . . Later he had learnt that Aida was re-selling the 2 aircraft to Jetair through another company, Stanair. He said he had tried to stop the sale. 
I do not accept that, because  Stanair was the company from which Jetair bought 2 of the other DC3s and it was the company that is rumoured to be beneficially owned by Alexander Barton, Brins Australia Ltd or Jetair, either severally or jointly. Why did the Department of Supply not insist that Hookway export the aircraft immediately and not leave it to the company with whom he made the contract to export them? The responsibility was for him to export them. How was it that the Aida Corporation happened to run into  Stanair and happened to sell them in Australia to Jetair? Why did it not immediately sell them back into the United States or, as it did eventually, to some government in the Gulf of Persia? It is all too convenient. 
The statement has massive time gaps in it. It does not mention any of the prices paid. I would like to raise a few questions on it. Why was the Aida Corporation not forced to export the planes immediately the Government found it had them? When was its licence issued? What was the time lapse between the issue of the licence and when the planes finally left Australia? How much did Jesp Investments Pty Ltd pay Aida for the aircraft? When did Jesp Investments Pty Ltd, which was a nominee for Jepsen and Boland who were Alexander Barton's solicitors, purchase the aircraft? Why did the Commonwealth not force it to export the aircraft? Surely the Department of Civil Aviation and people in the aviation industry would have known that they had fallen into the hands of this company. Can the Minister explain why they were not exported until September and October 1970, which was at least 6 months later? On 21st April 1970  Senator Keeffe  asked a question of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson concerning 2 VIP aircraft.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson replied that the tender price was $173,000. So the aircraft must have changed hands by at least 21st April 1970. They did not leave the country until September and October 1970. Why did this delay take place? 
The statement of the Minister for Civil Aviation, predictably, does not specify any dates or explain the time gaps that are there. It does not say how Alexander Barton of Jetair had 'effective ownership and control' over the aircraft. It just says that they went to Jesp Investments Pty Ltd. How did they get from Jesp Investments Pty Ltd to Alexander Barton? That is another thing the statement does not explain. On 19th August 1971  Senator Cotton  replied to  Senator Wriedt  as follows: 
On 18th June 1971 Brins Australia Ltd, the parent company of Jetair, announced a loss of $265,965 on the sale of these aircraft. 
How did Brins get the aircraft without the Department of Civil Aviation knowing? Can the Minister explain why the company lost $265,965 when I believe that they sold the aircraft for more than double the price paid by Hookway, which was $173,000? That would be roughly $346,000 plus their loss of $265,965, which makes a total of $611,965 for the 2 aircraft. Can the Government explain why these aircraft were supposed to be worth more than $600,000 when it received only $173,000 for them? 
The statement does not in any way satisfy the Opposition. There are too many time gaps in it. There are at least 3 hands into which these aircraft passed that are not mentioned. The statement said: 
When it became known to the Department of Civil Aviation that these aircraft were within the effective ownership and control of  Mr Barton,  the Minister and the Director-General brought to his attention that it would be contrary to Government policy for these aircraft to be operated within Australia and as a result,  Mr Barton  agreed to sell them overseas. 
That sounds as if they were sold as soon as  Mr Barton  became aware of this fact. But they were in Australia during the period of negotiations to establish a third airline policy. 
As I said in the House last week, the Viscounts would have been the operational muscle behind the third airline. It is impossible to operate competitively on trunk routes or semi-trunk routes with OC3 aircraft but the company could have operated with Viscount aircraft until its organisation became fully operational. The Prime Minister himself said it applied for import licences for French Norde aircraft. F27 Friendships and also Boeing 707 aircraft. So it was setting up to stay in business. What transpired in that period? Noone knows as yet. But certainly  Jetair's quest for the third airline licence was denied it. We find that these aircraft were in Australia in the hands of Jetair contrary to the tender provisions set down by the Government and by the Department of Supply; they were here to back up the negotiations with the Government to allow Jetair to use airports and operate as the third airline. This is the thing. It is not a matter of whether the aircraft were exported in the end; the fact is that they were here at the time of the negotiations, and that was at least for a period of 6 months. 
Later on, towards the end of that 6 months, it was obvious that Jetair had decided to fold up. Whether the Ansett pressure on the Government was too much or whether Jetair decided that it did not have enough money to continue, we do not yet know. But it was certainly at that point that the aircraft were eventually sold. I do not believe that the aircraft were sold on the instructions of the Government. They were sold then because Jetair had decided to get out. These aircraft were probably sold for the same reason as the DC3s were sold, that is, either that the Government wanted to make sure that its friends in Jetair were looked after or alternatively to settle Ansett's paranoia about Jetair having enough aircraft lying around Australia so as to allow other interests to compete against the 2-airline policy and against his airline. These are things which we have to find out. This was a struggle for the disbandment of the 2-airline policy, and we will find out eventually, as a result of dissension amongst the ranks of the Government, who was backing Jetair and who was backing Ansett. 
The subsequent sales reveal the disaster of the Jetair attempt, but they do not reveal the hanky-panky and the dirty work perpetrated by members of the Government during that period. That is why this document is inadequate. We want the files of the Department of Civil Aviation with the letters from the Ansett organisation complaining about Jetair's application and the fact that every time a Jetair plane breached any of the Department of Civil Aviation regulations a letter went in to the Department of Civil Aviation about it. That is the information we want. We want to find out what the Government was doing with these aircraft. We have had this subterfuge of saying that the Jetair planes were cheaper. The fact of the matter is that the Government was giving 5 aircraft away under a foreign aid scheme, and when it found that Jetair had to be looked after, or Ansett had to be looked after by exporting these planes, it decided then to ask the governments to whom it was sending these planes to request passenger aircraft from Australia. That then gave the Government the excuse of going to firms in Australia and asking them to quote on refurbishing the aircraft from freighter to civilian or passenger configuration. When the Government received the figure of $525,000 from Hawker de Havilland, as is revealed in the files, the Government was then able to say: 'Look, we can buy the Jetair planes because they are only $275,000. There is our excuse, because it is too expensive to upgrade the ex-RAAF DC3s. 
In fact the original foreign aid scheme was not for the supply of upgraded aircraft; it was to give away 5 surplus DC3 aircraft in freighter configuration. The Government has just used this whole thing firstly to let Jetair in to contest the 2- airline policy and then later, to satisfy some elements of the Government, by getting the Jetair planes off  Jetair's  hands and then to suit Ansett by getting the planes out of the country. That is the end result. We want to know the bit in the middle. The stuff that has been given to us today is unsatisfactory. We want the lot, and we will continue to press for it until we get it. 
I was attacked by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  who has subsequently left the Chamber. I wish he would return to hear what I have to say to him. I have studied all the documents that have been made available in the House and in the Senate and I make the following 6 charges: The Prime Minister has deceived the House; he has manipulated the governments of Laos, Nepal and Cambodia; he has ruthlessly manipulated the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs,  Sir Keith  Waller; he has made an improper use of the United States Embassy in Canberra; he has degraded and insulted our embassy in Cambodia; he has abused the foreign aid programme. The Prime Minister has proved himself unworthy of the high office he holds. 
I would like to outline to the House the facts of the matter. The Prime Minister claims that the first he knew of the Jetair planes being available for use was when the Secretary of his then Department,  Sir Keith  Waller, gave him a recommendation on 31st December 1970 to purchase the Jetair fleet of 6 aircraft for $275,00.  His  claim is rubbish. As far back as 6th May 1970 Alexander Barton for Jetair notified the Government by letter - that is contained in the Viscount documents tabled in the House - that Jetair would be unable to continue without the third airline licence. Knowing that he could not get the third licence for his friend, due among other things to Ansett pressure, he, the Prime Minister, set in train a scheme to give Jetair taxpayers' money. 
The evidence is that over a period of so many months - 8 months before the recommendation was given to him - he was taking advance action to create a need for the Jetair planes. He did this by having our ambassadors in Nepal and Laos request the governments of those countries to request us that our original offer of freighter planes be changed to one of planes of passenger configuration. The evidence for this is in document 404 of the departmental papers which is a letter dated 9th July 1971 from  Sir Keith  Waller to the First Assistant Auditor-General. It reads:  the 5 ex-RAAF aircraft were acquired from the Department of Supply after discussions wilh Nepal and Laos and as part of our foreign aid programmes designed to help those developing countries improve their internal communications facilities. Advice available (from the Departments of Civil Aviation and Supply) at the time indicated that little work would need to be done on each aircraft Also, the first  1  aircraft were offered to and accepted by Nepal in their original RAAF configuration. However the requirement was later changed to civilian passenger configuration on representation from the Australian Embassy in Nepal and the Nepalese authorities. 
What that means is that Australia requested these governments to change their requests to us. It also means that we were going to give away freighter aircraft. In fact the Prime Minister was deliberately 
Inflating the cost of the ex-RAAF planes from $344,000 to $425,000 as is seen in document 399. At this figure the Jetair aircraft were becoming a better commercial proposition and so their purchase could be justified to the Parliament and the public even though they were not on the market at this stage. 
The Prime Minister, having decided that the Jetair aircraft would fulfil the requirements of Nepal and Laos, then had to find a use for the 5 surplus ex-RAAF planes which were owned by the Department of Foreign Affairs and could have caused acute embarrassment if they were not disposed of. These planes were offered to Cambodia and were accepted by that government on 29th January 1971 only after considerable pressure had been exercised. Negotiations to supply the 5 ex-RAAF planes to Cambodia could have taken place only after the original requirements for Nepal and Laos had been fulfilled. Therefore, the decision to purchase the Jetair aircraft would have to have been made before any offer of the ex-RAAF planes to Cambodia. This is where the Prime Minister exposes himself. He has claimed that no one in the Government was aware of the availability of the Jetair aircraft until they were advertised in the 'Sydney Morning Herald'  ,11  5th December 1970. Yet  Mr G.  B. Feakes, the Australian Ambassador to Cambodia, wrote to the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs on 1 9th January 1971 in the following terms:  the Americans were obviously in touch with the Cambodians no later than mid-December about the possibility of the supply of the Australian airplanes. 
So we are asked to believe that within 8 days, at the latest, of the advertisement appearing in the newspaper it was normal for the United States Embassy in Cambodia to be trying to dispose of our 6 DC3 aircraft, bearing in mind that the Jetair planes were not inspected by the Department of Foreign Affairs until after this date - 'that is, on 17th and 18th December. In other words, before we even looked at the Jetair planes the United States Embassy was selling them for us in Cambodia. 
It is obvious that the then Foreign Minister intended to purchase the Jetair planes all along. I should point out that the 6 planes mentioned in the letter from Feakes to Waller were made up of 5 ex-RAAF aircraft plus one Jetair aircraft. So we have one Jetair aircraft which the United States Ambasador in Cambodia was trying to sell for us before the Jetair planes were inspected by Foreign Affairs and only within 5 or 6 days after the advertisement first appeared in the newspaper. This just illustrates the untruth that the Prime Minister told when he said that no one in the Department or himself knew of the Jetair planes until they were advertised. This is borne out by confidential document 16. which is a letter from Ambassador Feakes to Waller on 19th January 1971. The letter expresses the grave concern by that Ambassador at his being kept in the dark and being by-passed by his Minister and the head of his Department. The letter reads, inter alia: 
The distinction yon make between early December and mid-December for the time when you first got in touch with the American embassy in Canberra about the 6 aircraft is not a very important one from my point of view here. 
In other words, if you are trying to scramble out, I am not going to help you. The letter continues: 
It may well have been that the people to whom we spoke in the US Embassy were mistaken about the precise date on which they first heard about the possibility that aircraft would be offered here. Your memorandum confirms that you were in touch with the US Embassy in Canberra well before we were first appraised here of the idea of providing the aircraft. 
The letter continues: 
The Americans here must wonder whether we have the confidence of our own people when they hear about and are apparently asked to comment on Austraiian proposals for aid of which we are ignorant. The Americans were obviously in touch with the Cambodians no later than mid-December about the possibility, of the supply of Australian aircraft. I suggest to you that it is better for Cambodians to learn of Australian projects from the Australian representatives here rather than from somebody else. 
He went on to say: 
May I ask, however, that before discussion on new aid projects is initiated by Australian authorities with other authorities (including the Americans) we here are informed, if not given the opportunity to comment? 
That is a nice sort of letter he has written as ambassador to the head of the Department. 
I ask the following questions: What is the permanent head of our Department of Foreign Affairs doing in asking the American Embassy to undertake work in a place where we have a resident ambassador? Why were not the documents of  Sir Keith  Waller's dealing with the American Embassy tabled with the other documents that were tabled in the House? I can answer both questions. Firstly, he went to the American Embassy to keep the matter quiet, to keep the records out of the Department of Foreign Affairs, against his wishes and on the instructions of his Minister. Secondly, the documents are not tabled, because there would be no documents. The Prime Minister is relying on the safe but sure verbal technique. He has used the governments of Nepal and Laos for his own shabby political purposes. He manipulated 'the Cambodians into accepting something that they had not asked for. He cruelly used his own permanent head,  Sir Keith  Waller. He humiliated our ambassador in Cambodia. He abused the friendship of the United States Embassy in Australia. 
I now come to the Prime Minister's malpractice in negotiating the purchase of the Jetair fleet. Why did the Department of Foreign Affairs enter into a private treaty with Jetair? Why were normal tender procedures ignored? Why, as a former Treasurer, did the Prime Minister not know that he was in breach of Treasury regulation 52? Why was the Auditor-General so caustic in his comments on the transaction? Why did  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, the then Minister for Supply, wash his hands of responsibility? Why were the DC3 aircraft owned by Ansett, Trans-Australia Airlines and others overlooked? Why then did the then Minister for Foreign Affairs approve the purchase on New Year's Day? All these questions the Prime Minister has tried to smother with a simple subterfuge written into item 4 of the recommendations that were placed before him by  Sir Keith  Waller about the Jetair aircraft.  Sir Keith's  letter to the Prime Minister reads in part: 
In mid-December, Jetair Australia Limited, ceased operation with less than 24 hours notice, the reason being that Jetair is linked with the IPEC group of companies, the  chairman  of which is  Mr G.  P. Barton, who, when he was unable to obtain licences for more modern styles of aircraft, decided to cease his air transport interests. 
The only possible explanation for this false statement being included in the secretary's letter to the Prime Minister is that it was deliberately written by the Prime Minister to himself to put a smokescreen around Alexander Barton by trying purposely to confuse him with Gordon Barton of IPEC Australia Ltd and Australia Party fame. The Prime Minister was deliberately covering himself against possible charges of corruption by implying that he was doing an honest deal with a known political opponent. This is artful but unconvincing. Despite his protest, I believe that the Prime Minister's involvement in the Jetair affair is so deep as to constitute serious malpractice which should result in his resignation as Prime Minister. The one person who knows all the details of this whole shabby exercise, apart from the Prime Minister, is the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs,  Sir Keith  Waller. It is clear that the Prime Minister has refused to tell the truth about this matter. Therefore, the Parliament can be satisfied only when all the evidence, including evidence of oral conversations, is revealed. 
The Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs should be brought before the Bar of the House to explain all the transactions and his involvement with the United States Embassy. This involvement with the United States Embassy is crucial because the United States Embassy was negotiating to sell one of the Jetair aircraft in the middle of December 1970, although the Department of Foreign Affairs did not inspect the planes until 17th and 18th December 1970. The Prime Minister's case rests on the basis that the aircraft were not advertised until 5th December 1970 and that he knew nothing of it. He did know something of it and I have referred to the letter from Alexander Barton saying that Jetair would fold as early as May. The deal was cooked up then.  Sir Keith  Waller was given the dirty work to do by the Prime Minister which involved not using his own ambassador in Cambodia and not using his own Department which would have meant that records would have got into the departmental files but going to the United States Embassy in Canberra and asking it to negotiate for us in Cambodia, where we have our own ambassador. Where are the details of this conversation? There are no details because it was only a verbal conversation. 
It has been said in the Liberal Party in the last 2 weeks that Waller carried the can for McMahon by going through the United States Embassy. People in the know know that that is so. The Prime Minister has not explained his way out of this affair.  His  whole case rests on the fact that he never knew of the Jetair aircraft becoming available until 5th December and that the aircraft were not inspected until 17th and 18th December. Yet the ambassador in Cambodia said that the Americans knew of the aircraft at least by the middle of December. He then referred to the letter of the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs by saying: 'I do not know whether you talked to me in early or midDecember.' Obviously  Sir Keith  Waller is trying to cover up details of when the original offer was made. 
As I said before, this Jetair affair was motivated by 2 things: Firstly, Ansett pressure to keep a third airline out of Australia and, secondly, pressure by Barton on the Prime Minister to get a third airline licence. When the Prime Minister was finally defeated in that attempt he had to get the DC3 aircraft off Barton's hands. At the same time he had to suit Ansett because Ansett wanted the aircraft out of the country. The story has been told that when Jetair wanted 2 DC3 wheels which Ansett had, the wheels were sent to Albert G. Sims to be crushed. Albert G. Sims was told that if anyone took the wheel out of his plant he would never get another aircraft again. They are the lengths to which Ansett went to squash Jetair. The lengths to which it went are common knowledge in the industry. These were the pressures that were operating on the Prime Minister and are the reasons why the Prime Minister interceded and arranged the Jetair deal months before. What he has told the House is a pack of untruths. The only man who can expose him is the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs and he ought to be brought before the Bar of the House to clear his own name, which he knows is in jeopardy. I am sure that he would not want to cover up for a man he knows will not be the Prime Minister after 2nd December anyway. 
I had not intended to speak in this debate and I have not prepared any material for it. I have been influenced to enter the debate because the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  was unfairly treated by the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay).  The Minister said that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition had been on a secret trip to Holland to inquire about destroyers. I get a little sick and tired of supporters of the Government who repeatedly say that members of the Opposition are doing the wrong thing in the area of defence. I think it is fair enough that members of the Opposition should be able to acquaint themselves with the facilities and equipment available overseas. When we are embarking on a purchase for our forces at a cost of about $3S0m, does the Government suggest that we should vote blindly on such an issue? Consistently we hear the innuendo that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition went overseas to look at manufactures when he ought to have been looking at manufactures here. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition on this subject has said only that under a Labor government the DDL destroyers would be built in Australia by Australians, yet all the time honourable members opposite are making innuendos. The Opposition has no access to intelligence of the Department of Defence, the Department of Supply or the 3 Service departments. Many other people including Press secretaries of all sorts have documents and information that could well be used by members of the Opposition but they are not available to us. Whenever members of the Opposition have to speak on the issue of defence they do their own research, think the issues out for themselves and speak for themselves, unlike Ministers who have their answers to questions on notice prepared by public servants, as are their speeches. They then come into the House as oracles and cast aspersions on members of the Opposition. How Government supporters after the Government has been in office for 23 years can say that it has a credible record in defence matters confounds me. In any area the Liberal-Country Party Government and its predecessors - the United Australia Party Government, the Nationalist Party Government, and so on - have never cared 2 hoots about the defence of this country. 
There has been no consistent defence policy since the last Labor government left office. There was no consistent defence policy before it came into office. The Labor Party took over the administration of this country during the war years when our defence organisation was a shambles. Under the Menzies Government it was again allowed to deteriorate to a shambles, even to the point in 1965, when the Government wanted to commit our troops to Vietnam, that it did not have enough people to send and had to conscript boys. 
It does not matter where you look, at equipment for the Services or the state of our defence industries, right across the board the Government has failed to plan adequately. Because of the inconsistencies of its defence policy the Services have not known from one year to the next what ta defence policy will be. Australian industries manufacturing equipment for the Services have been unable to meet the requirements of the Services. The Government's defence policies are determined purely and simply by current domestic political pressures. Earlier this year the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  made a clown of himself by running through South East Asia trying to create an issue out of the Five Power Defence Arrangement. Everyone knows that the arrangement was entered into by the countries concerned merely as a stop-gap measure on the point of Britain's withdrawal from the region. 
Once again the Government is trying to raise the issue of defence in an election year in an attempt to save its hide. It says that the Labor Party is not credible in the area of defence. The Malaysian Government and the Malaysian Department of Foreign Affairs said: 'We do not care whether the Australian Government withdraws its troops'. In other words, they did not think that garrison troops in Malaysia meant anything real, and that is a fact. We would be better employed in making Australia a powerful country in the region in terms of independence in the manufacture of defence equipment and in its defence forces. Why could this Government, which has been in office for  23  years, not have a defence organisation like that of Sweden and have an industrial back-up such as Sweden has? All the equipment needed by the Swedish armed forces is manufactured by Swedish companies. They are able to put their country in a position that it does not have to fear the might of the Soviet Union on its borders. The Soviet Union realises that it could not hope to conquer Sweden without paying an enormous price. That situation has come about purely and simply because of Sweden's consistent defence policy. Sweden has had an intelligent government sorting out its defence policy. What have we got? We have a ramshackle broken down excuse for a government that has allowed our defence industries to get into a shocking state. The morale of the Services is at an all-time low. 
The Minister says that it is rubbish. Last year I had experience of the morale of the crew of HMAS 'Brisbane'. I met  4  of my constituents who said that the morale of the crew was at a disastrous level. They said that they were crammed up in the vessel from daylight to dark. The Minister has no idea of what he is dealing with. We cannot have strong defence forces with morale in that state. Every  3  years, in an election year, the big spurt is on. Again the Government will do something about defence in an attempt to save its miserable political hide. This time it will fail. 
Six years ago Government supporters told us of the threatened invasion by the hordes of Red China. Now they are selling wheat to China and it is acclaimed as  a  tumultuous event. The Government is trying to establish diplomatic relations with Red China. At the time of the last election the Five Power Defence Arrangement was the big issue. It was alleged that the Labor Party was adopting isolationist policies. The Prime Minister of the time, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  came out with a policy almost identical to that of the Opposition; that is, based on making Australia self-sufficient in the area of defence. This year the present Prime Minister was running around South East Asia trying to make something of the Five Power Defence Arrangement. He was shot down by one of the main signatories to the Arrangement. 
The story just will not wash. The Australian people will not swallow it any more. They have come to realise that in every area associated with defence the Government has failed. In my electorate at Bankstown is the factory of Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty Ltd. Retrenchments are imminent there but are being avoided because the dropaway rate Ls such that one man a day is leaving the plant. As 5 or 6 men are leaving each week the management has not had to resort to retrenchments but eventually, unless an improvement takes place, it will be forced to lay off some of its workers. 
The position is not good at the establishment in Melbourne of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and at the Government Aircraft Factories. It does not matter where one looks, there has been no consistent policy. A couple of weeks ago we saw the newspaper heading 'France Wins the Fighter Battle'. The Government is trving to make a last minute deal with France, just before the election, for the coproduction of the Mirage Fi in Australia. Yet it is trying to tell us that we will co-produce the aircraft but we are not committed to buy the aircraft. Can any honourable member imagine that we would manufacture the Mirage FI in Australia in quantity but not buy any of them for the Royal Australian Air Force? Because the Government is trying to save its hide a last minute political announcement will be made that we will be building more Mirages in Australia and we will be committing ourselves to a decision to buy the aircraft. 
I remind honourable members of the Fill position. The military assessments are thrown out the door because political considerations take precedence. That is what happens at every election. That is what happens with the 5-year rolling defence programme; it gets a spurt on every 3 years. For this year the goodies to come out of the bag are the DDL destroyers. Look at the DDL as a concept. It is to be a 4,000-ton vessel which was originally envisaged as a 1,000 ton vessel. We will be faced with a prohibitive price of $3 35m for 3 ships. What is the value of 3 ships to a country which has a coastline such as ours? 
There is just no planning and intelligence in the defence thinking of the Government. A1J the steps that the Government has taken have been stop-gap measures designed to please the current domestic political market. I believe that at the forthcoming election the Australian people will be deciding that they want quality. They will not be sold on false issues such as defence and foreign policy. They will not be fooled by the paranoic scare technique the Government uses by saying: 'The Labor Party cannot be trusted with defence. If you do not hand us back 3 years of office you will find the hordes of Asia coming down again.' That is just not on. The Australian Labor Party wants to see strong, viable defence forces. It wants to see Australia in an independent position as far as its military industrial back-up is concerned. It wants to see Australia move into areas of new technology in pioneering industries such as the electronics industry, naval shipbuilding and shipbuilding generally. It is disastrous that there is not even a decent naval design staff in Australia. The position is the same with design staff in the aircraft industry. The top quality people we have are leaving to go overseas. There is an enormous brain drain of personnel from this industry because there is just not enough employment. This Government claims to be credible in the area of defence. It is just too ridiculous. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  on your election to the high office of  Speaker  of the Mouse of Representatives. For any man this is an outstanding achievement. Also I should like to remind the House that the Speech by the GovernorGeneral was the most comprehensive that has been delivered in the last 30 years. It is my pleasure, for the second time since my election to this House, to speak in an AddressinReply debate. I remind honourable members that the document from which the GovernorGeneral read yesterday consisted of 14 pages outlining the full breadth of the Government's legislative programme. It compares more than favourably with the miserable 3 minutes that we heard 3 years ago when the GovernorGeneral outlined the programme of the bereft and ill-gotten former government. 
It ill became the Liberal Party to have the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  leading for the Opposition in this debate. Predictably, it was a whingeing, snivelling speech. What more could honourable members expect from this man? He had the temerity to talk about statements which were allegedly made by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson).  The honourable member for Wannon did not engage in factual debate but spoke about these Ministers allegedly attacking the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on some issue. The honourable member for Wannon should not speak of others attacking a Prime Minister. He is perhaps the most famous back stabber in the history of the Parliament. He is the man who not only pushed his Prime Minister into the political mud but also knifed him as he crawled from it. As a young member of this House I heard the honourable member in this chamber denigrating and destroying the then Prime Minister. I sat and listened to his merciless attack. In a conspiracy with the Press moguls of Australia the honourable member for Wannon set out to destroy John Gorton. Yet the honourable member now has the hide to talk about the Minister for Overseas Trade and the Minister for Northern Development discussing an issue related to devaluation. 
What sort of record did the previous Government have in respect of devaluation? I invite honourable members to consider the decision made by the former government on this subject. The leader of the Australian Country Party, the former Prime Minister and the former Treasurer for 4 days were locked in discussion, night in and night out in this building, deciding what the parity of the Australian dollar should be. The rate fixed by the former government was not one agreed to by the then Prime Minister, the then Treasurer or the Treasury. However, it was a rate which was acceptable to the Country Party and the great mining interests which support honourable members opposite. What was the former government doing when contracts were being written by these mining interests? Was it not incumbent upon that Government to stress to Australian miners the problems which could arise from contracts being written in United States dollars and' the risk involved. Do supporters of the former Government not think that it was incumbent on that Government to tell the mining interests that since 1963 the United States dollar had been slipping and that eventually it would suffer a number of devaluations? 
As far back as 1963, every time there was a dwindling of gold stocks in the United States, President Kennedy sought personal reports on the situation because he realised how vulnerable the United States dollar was as an exchange currency. Yet the former Government allowed Australian exporters to write contracts in United States dollars when it knew damned well that Japan and other countries were in a position where they were forced to buy from us, that there was a sellers market and Australia could have insisted on the contracts being written in any currency it chose. There was not a word from the last Government about building up the Australian dollar as a currency that would rank favourably with other currencies, yet it is one of the hardest currencies in the world. There is no reason why encouragement should not be given for payments for Australian exports to be made in Australian dollars. Had that hapened we would never have incurred all the losses which were suffered because of devaluation. What does the Opposition expect the Government to do? Does it want the Australian dollar to follow the United States dollar down until it is worth nothing, or does it expect us to set the value of the Australian dollar at the level which it deserves? This Government will be promoting the Australian dollar as a world ranking currency. That is why there is healthy discussion in our Party about the parity of the dollar, instead of backhanded, backroom discussion about the parity of the United States dollar that was carried on when the parties opposite were in Government. 
I shall dwell on a few other aspects of the speech made by the honourable member for Wannon, He referred to wheat deals. A member of the previous Government should be the last person to talk about wheat deals. To say that the Labor Party was in any way under a cloud because there was some talk of China offering to withdraw a wheat deal just does not hold any water. Honourable members will be aware that only a month ago it was revealed that the United Arab Republic was reneging on its debts to Australia for wheat sold to it last year. I had the pleasure in this House to speak on the Export Pay? ments Insurance Corporation Bill when supporters of the then Government had the barefaced temerity to ask for an increase in the contingent liability of the Exports Payments Insurance Corporation, knowing full well that the chances of the money being repaid were very slight. It was decided to flog all the wheat at any price to suit the Country Party and its rural electorate, and the Australian taxpayer was to be left to pick up the bill. The half per cent premium for the Exports Payments Insurance Corporation policy, which is guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government, was supposed to exonerate the Wheat Board and saddle the taxpayers with the debt. 
It is common knowledge that the Country Party was well aware that it was doing everything it could to dispose of the wheat surplus of the year before. Wheat was being sold everywhere. It was being sold under the guise of taking out Export Payments Insurance Corporation policy. In this way the Australian taxpaying public could pick up the bill and the Country Party could pick up votes at the end of the year. The record of the honourable member for Wannon is not good enough to enable him to talk about wheat and votes. I refer next to Torres Strait islanders - another subject mentioned by the honourable member for Wannon. He said that the 6,000 islanders had not been consulted and that we were holding their fate in our hands without even talking to them. He forgets that since 1965 a number of young Australians, for 2 years of their life, have been dictated to by the former Government without any consultation. Five hundred of them died in Vietnam. The war in Vietnam was another commitment entered into without any consultation. The honourable member for Wannon should be ashamed even to raise these issues in debate because his Party does not have a good record on any of them. 
I now deal with a couple of matters that were raised in the Governor-General's Speech. The first matter concerns the way in which the Labor Party intends to manage the resources of the Commonwealth of Australia to the benefit of the Australian people. It is common knowledge to everyone in this place that the last Government was, afraid to push through the House the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill which related to offshore minerals. I was present in the House when  Mr Gorton  was Prime Minister and his Government was nearly defeated on that issue when. the honourable, member for. Farrer led a revolt against  Mr Gorton  on so-called State rights. Australia is perhaps one of the few nations in the world that has. not been prepared to exercise national sovereignty over its sea bed from low water mark to the limits of the continental shelf. Australia . is one of the few nations that has not defined the areas involved in national sovereignty. .We had the ludicrous position last year when negotiating with Indonesia concerning the limits of our exploratory rights on the continental shelf that the people who spoke for Australia were members of the Western Australian Government. There is enormous wealth in the offshore areas and it is farcical that 6 State governments set the price of our . exports from those areas. There has been a cry from conservative forces that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has placed an embargo on the exports of all raw materials unless they satisfy the criteria which this Government has laid down. In the regulation of mineral prices the Government intends to introduce a national energy and resources policy to provide proper management of Australian resources so that a proper price can be received for our minerals. 
Recently I had the pleasure of visiting Canada. Many industrial leaders there are critical of the fact that Australian mineral industries are undercutting other nations at well below world prices. The end result of that is that the Australian people receive next to nothing by way of royalties because the people whom the former Government supported are the doyens of big business and multi-national corporations. Those interests are the gods, and honourable members opposite are the servants. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
Prior to the dinner adjournment I was referring to Australia's natural resources' and reminding the House that the programme offered to the Australian people by the Australian Labor Party took the Governor-General 45 minutes to read. In 1969 the former Government, the Liberal-Country Party Government, . offered its programme to the Australian people in a 3-minute address. That again illustrates the despair with which the last Government faced the last Parliament. But in that 3-minute address was a reference to a nuclear power station which the then Government proposed in order to dress up its electoral grab bag. As we know, 18 months later that nuclear plant project was scrapped. 
The Labor Party intends to look at the area of natural resources and energy in a very comprehensive way. There falls to the lot of our Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  who is seated at the table at the moment, the job of drafting a national energy and resources policy in a couple of months which the Opposition should have done during the 23 years that it was in government. So the work of 23 years now has to be completed within 6 months. There is enormous pressure on Australia and Canada, and countries like ourselves which have an abun-. dance of natural resources, particularly in the form of energy. As we know, there is a world energy crisis, particularly in regard to the supply of hydrocarbons. Through the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Australia has been under alot of pressure to make its energy resources available to the rest of the world. This is the attitude of countries like Japan and the United States of America. Japan in particular is importing about 78 per cent of its energy requirements at the moment and by 1980 that country will be importing 80-odd per cent of its energy requirements. The United States is facing an energy crisis at the moment and by the year 1980 it will be importing about $30 billion to $40 billion worth of energy resources. So Australia has to develop an energy policy very quickly if it is to govern the development of its natural resources. 
We intend to govern the areas of nuclear power as well as coal and natural gas. I would like to display the negligence of the last Government in the area of natural gas. The Australian Gas Light Company at the moment is attempting to build a pipeline between Moomba and Sydney to supply the Sydney metropolitan area with natural gas. The diameter of the pipe, of 34 inches, is double the size of the- diameter necessary to supply the home consumption market of Sydney. In fact,  Sir William  Pettingell, the  Chairman  of the company, intended to build the line and to pay for it by exporting natural gas. This was the position although repeatedly the former Minister for National Development in the last Government said that there would be no exports of Australian natural gas. On the other front, on the north-west shelf of Australia, Burmah Woodside, that massive conglomerate, was also negotiating with a Japanese company for the export of natural gas while the Minister stood in this Parliament and said there would be no export. This demonstrates the complete contempt- that these companies held for the last Government and the way in which that Government neglectfully allowed these major companies to dominate and sell off our natural resources. 
The Labor Party intends to introduce and build a national pipeline authority which will construct, maintain and service a national pipeline grid which will supply natural gas to the people of Australia at an equal price and will allow the Commonwealth Parliament to exercise sovereignty over these areas of resources so that we can plan the use of this very valuable energy resource. If there is to be any export of natural gas it will be only at the behest of the Federal Government after our domestic requirements have been satisfied. The Government intends to move into the area of natural gas, and also into other areas of energy. The Australian Labor Party, as a government, intends to look at the area of solar energy. This is an area of energy that Australia has a great opportunity to exploit. The world uses less than one per cent of the sun's energy. Although the sun is 93 million miles away it is the best nuclear reactor that we have. In a country where we have the greatest number of hours of sunshine per year on an aggregated basis we have a perfect opportunity to explore this area of energy. So the Government intends to look at the question of solar energy to supply energy not only to Australia but to other countries in the region. 
Also the Government intends to look at other forms of energy such as the Sarich engine which is being developed in Western Australia. This is a rotary engine which apparently develops a phenomenal level of horsepower and is of a very cheap and efficient form of construction. So in all forms of energy, including those forms of energy which can be utilised for automotive purposes and which we will integrate later on into the transport policy, we intend to introduce quite far reaching' policies. 1 would like, in the 5 minutes remaining to me. to highlight another item of the Government's programme - that relating to defence. For years in this House members of the former Government said: 'You cannot trust the Australian Labor Party with Australia's defence'. Yet we heard again in the GovernorGeneral's Speech yesterday the Government's enunciation of its plans to develop Australia's defence forces. The Government intends, along with that, to develop Australia's defence industries. This is something that I have been keen about for the last 3 years that I have been in this place. The last Government allowed all of our defence industries to lapse into a state of decay. Our shipbuilding was virtually non-existent in the defence area. Our aircraft industries are falling to pieces and a defence electronic industry is also non-existent. So the Government intends to rationalise the aircraft industry. It intends to find commercial as well as military work for it. The Government intends to carry out this programme very quickly so that it can save this Industry, halt the massive brain drain of people who are leaving it and going overseas and provide what is really the basis of defence - that is, an industrial backup. It is already common knowledge that the Australian Labor Party as the Government intends to do quite a lot to redevelop and reinvigorate the shipbuilding industry of Australia. Again, in the area of defence elec tronics the Government intends to do the same thing by re-invigorating this industry. We have heard all this talk - the shibboleths that the Liberals have dragged up over the years and which kept them in office for 23 years - about how one cannot trust the Labor Party with Defence. That bogy almost disappeared in the 1973 election and after 3 years of this Government it will totally disappear. 
I would like to mention briefly some of the items which the Government will be introducing by way of legislation in the next 3 years which were set out in the Governor-General's Speech. There will be a basic reform of the Australian Education system, the development of a schools commission and a pre-schools commission, the abolition of university fees, the overhaul of our social welfare system, the introduction of a universal health insurance system, the establishment of a school dental service, the establishment of Aboriginal land rights and the setting up of a cities commission. A Commonwealth-State lands commission will be established to develop residential land, which is something on which the Liberals in the Commonwealth and the States have been criminally negligent because they have always pandered to their developer friends in these areas. Also the Government intends to embark upon a new Commonwealth-State housing agreement and to lift loan limits on housing loans. It intends to fight inflation by limiting the amount of money flowing into Australia by way of foreign investment and to regulate the money supply as well as set up a prices justification tribunal to govern the primary cost of products, by which I mean the prices of products which tend to affect the secondary structure of prices and costs. 
So the Labor Party's programme is a comprehensive one. I thought it ill behove the honourable member for Wannon to make what 1 referred to before as a whingeing speech in which he talked about division and disunity in the Labor Party where in fact there is none. This will be a united Party. We intend to carry out a comprehensive programme and I am quite certain that the result will be our re-election at the end of this 3- year term. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Supply. I remind the Minister of the urgent need of the Australian aircraft industry to secure offset work overseas due to the lack of workload planned by the previous Government. In view of the essential nature of this industry will the Minister examine a case for assistance to the aircraft industry to make up the  17 i  per cent differential between the rate of the Australian dollar and the American dollar on US$6m worth of offset work quoted for last December by the industry? The Minister will be aware that the American aircraft industry is asking the Australian industry to absorb the 17i per cent. Will he assist the Australian aircraft industry in meeting this differential? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the staff of the Public Service Board in each State and Territory as at (a) 30th June 1955, 
30th June 1960 and (c) 30th June in each year since 1961. 
What was the break-up between temporary and permanent positions in each Division in each of those years. 
Will he have a table prepared indicating by States and Territories the number of classified positions in the Public Service Board In the (a) Second Division at (i) Level 6, (ii) Level 5, (iii) Level 4, (iv) Level 3, (v) Level 2 and (vi) Level 1, (b) Third Division at (i) Class 11, (ii) Class 10, (iii) Class 9, (iv) Class 8, (v) Class 7 and (vi) Classes 1 to 6 and 
Fourth Division. 
My question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for 
Stirling. Was the reason for the panic farming in the case of Woodside-Burmah Oil NL leases due to the fact that the area would have reverted to the Designated Authority in 2 years? Why was the area given to WoodsideBurmah for exploration so massive? Why was not the exploration licence auctioned as is the practice in Canada and other countries? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What payments other than salary were made to each Minister in 1971-72. 
Is the Minister for Health aware of the widespread dissatisfaction of people who are unable to obtain adequate medical attention after hours? Does the Government have any plan to encourage general practitioners not to neglect their patients after business hours? 
The matter of public importance raised by the Opposition does not warrant debate, much less any serious consideration, particularly as it was raised by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  who, as the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  said, would be the man in this Parliament least able to talk on this question. Wherever one looks at the record of the honourable member for Farrer it is clear that he has held the national Government and the national Parliament to scorn and to shame. I witnessed here the demise of Prime Minister Gorton, the only Liberal Prime Minister ever to try to curb the inflow of foreign funds and foreign domination of our industries. He was wrecked by people like the honourable member for Farrer who stood up as a States' righter and did everything in his power - and was successful - to delay the passage of the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill which gave the Government sovereignty over the offshore wealth of Australia. He did all this under the guise of States' rights. We were not able, when discussing the limits of the territorial sea and continental shelf with the Government of Indonesia, to say where those limits were because of this man, the former Minister for National Development. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy referred also to the deal concocted by the honourable member for Farrer when he was a Minister in relation to the royalties for oil and natural gas, and to his departure from the graticular system by which the Commonwealth gave up four-ninths of the area to be explored in return for an increase of li per cent in royalties - a fiddling amount in return for 40 per cent of what was found. The New Zealand Labor Government only 2 weeks ago introduced legislation which will allow it to take 50 per cent of what is found in oil and gas exploration off the New Zealand coast. Indonesia takes 60 per cent. Yet this hill-billy was prepared to let the Commonwealth of Australia get a  H  per cent increase in royalty in exchange for the loss of four-ninths of the area to be explored. There was no auction of leases. The auction of oil and gas leases was never heard of here. The Canadian Government had practised it for 15 years and yet the previous Government had never heard of it. It was a case of come and get it and the more that came the happier the previous Government was. 
Wherever one looks in the mining or extractive industries in which the previous Government was involved, and particularly in which the honourable member for Farrer was involved, one finds in relation to currency changes that the Government bungled the issue all the way through. In 1965 when sterling was devalued we lost a fortune in our reserves which were held in sterling, although we had years of notice that sterling was in trouble. The contracts on which the honourable member for Farrer said losses were sustained as a result of revaluation were written when he was the Minister and the last Government was in office. This talk about it being a buyers' market is so much bunkum. It is a myth. When the former Minister for Industrial Development in Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court, tried to put up the ruse that it was a buyers' market and we had to comply with the letter of the law in contracts and the wishes of the purchasers,  Mr Lang  Hancock, the iron ore entrepreneur from Western Australia, said at the time that Hamersley Holdings Pty Ltd, Mount Goldsworthy Pty Ltd and Mount Newman, the 3 major mines in Western Australia, were negotiating that it was certainly a sellers market and we could have insisted on contract terms which were more favourable to Australia. 
In the 6 years from 1965 to 1971 SI, 200m worth of minerals was exported to Japan. Some of the contracts will run until 1992 and yet it was not seen fit to write into the contracts any variation clause in respect of currency rates. There was no attempt to set up an Austraiian dollar facility in Japan so we could be paid under these contracts in Australian dollars. What better currency could be paid to a company operating in Australia with Australian products than Australian dollars? But not one attempt was made in all those years in which this trade was growing to set up a dollar facility in Japan. We would have preferred, perhaps, to be paid for some of these contracts in yen. We purchase a lot of manufactured goods from Japan and we could have repaid them in yen or in Deutschemarks or in any currency other than the United States dollar which was in trouble as far back as 1961 when  President  John Kennedy was worried about the trading problems of the United States and the state of the dollar. 
I would like to quote from a chapter of a book entitled 'Death of the Dollar' written by William F. Rickenbacker in 1968, because it sums up the problem with the United States dollar with which this Government is faced and which the previous Government never recognised. The book reads: 
The problem, as seen from Washington, is that foreign bankers are holding such a large total of claims against the U.S. that if they presented them all at once we would be unable to pay them off, as we have promised to pay them off, in gold. 
We are talking about the United States. It continues: 
This would involve the U.S. in a repudiation of  a  series of promises that have formed the basis of the monetary systems of half the nations of the world. 
As foreigners see it, the problem is that they hold assets' that are perhaps only half-assets: a promise is, after all, no better than the actual probability of its being made good. If it is perfectly clear that the U.S. cannot honor all of the promises it has outstanding, then how good is A's claim or B's claim against the U.S.? Yet A and B and many others have deposited those claims in their own official banking systems, treated them as assets, counted them as financial reserves, and then in turn issued their own promises to their own citizens - 'backed' by the questionable promise of the U.S.I America's international insolvency places the internal solvency of many foreign countries in question. 
I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table from this book showing the gold stock from 1941 to 1967 in the United States to back the United States dollar. 
Is the Treasurer aware that the Australian Guarantee Corporation, which is 51 per cent owned by the Bank of New South Wales, is seeking to attract finance at the rate of 6 per cent by offering what are termed unsecured notes repayable on demand, a practice never previously carried on by fringe banking organisations in Australia? Will this device move huge amounts of funds on a scale comparable with that of funds moving into the building society area and away from the trading banks where the normal interest bearing deposits attracting 3f per cent to 5 per cent are a source of low interest rate funds for housing and other desirable priorities? Is the Government going to tolerate the private trading banks' circumventing the banking system and to allow them to get into the dear money business, with a consequent reduction in trading bank liquidity being suffered in deference to the increased profitability available to the banks through their fringe operators? Will the Treasurer devise a measure to discourage this activity - perhaps a requirement that 25 per cent of the funds raised be invested in government securities, similar to the legislation introduced in relation to foreign funds with the Reserve Bank of Australia? 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  ,was right a couple of weeks ago. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  should be certified. 
I withdraw the remark. The Government of Australia recognised North Vietnam and made a public announcement a few weeks ago that people can travel between Australia and North Vietnam and that North Vietnamese people are welcome to come to this country, and it infuriates me to hear the resulting hue and cry that we so often hear in this House and the bleatings of the honourable member for Mackellar. But what a change there would be in the situation if instead of the United States Navy having ships in the Gulf of Tonkin the Soviet Navy had ships off the coast off New Zealand and naked aggression was being committed by the Soviet Navy against the New Zealanders instead of by the American Navy against the Vietnamese. What a changed situation it would be if as a result of that naked aggression, without any attack from New Zealand on the Soviet Navy, the Soviet Union plastered every New Zealand city almost to the stage where they were rubble for years to come, dropped the greatest bomb load in the history of the world and oppressed a small nation which is much less than it in size. What a hue and cry we would hear from members of the Opposition then. That analogy does not hit the deck because they would not want to recognise it. 
If the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  feels some concern and some sadness for the plight of these people I do not think it is to be scoffed at or to be talked about in the derogatory terms which the honourable member for Mackellar uses on regular occasions. I think his remarks tonight were an unwarranted attack on the Minister and deserve the contempt of this House. I am sure that the honourable member for Mao kellar has the contempt of this House. 
In talking about the attitude of the Government to the French nuclear tests the honourable member criticised its approach to tests carried out by China. Most of the Chinese tests have been underground tests, and the only indications we have had of those tests have been seismic disturbances which have been picked up by surveillance stations around Asia. The Chinese tests have not been atmospheric tests, so there is no analogy to be drawn between the French tests and the Chinese tests. The Soviet Union and the United States came to fruitful conclusions after entering into the strategic arms limitation talks, and there has been a general movement throughout the world to lessen the impact of strategic arms. The Labor Party has always supported such a move. It supported a nuclearfree zone in our area, but the Government of which the honourable member for Mackellar was a member only 2 years ago was encouraging Professor Baxter to establish a dirty bomb unit on the south coast of New South Wales at Jervis Bay from which a nuclear weapon could be developed. 
The honourable member talks about the French but he was a Minister in the Government which agreed to have Baxter go to Britain and attempt to rubber stamp and push through a purchase of a type of nuclear reactor which could have produced weaponsgrade plutonium in this country. It is only because of the pressure of the Australian Labor Party, which opposed the construction of a natural fueled uranium reactor on the south coast of New South Wales, that there is not available to people like the honourable member, if ever in office again, weapons-grade plutonium. They are the facts of the situation. He would explode his devices in the Pacific if it was left to him. The Labor Party has been consistently opposed to nuclear tests. We have been opposed to nuclear weapons. We are opposed to the testing of nuclear weapons in the atmosphere anywhere, and we have been consistent in that approach. We will oppose the French tests as far as we can. 
The honourable member talks all the time about the Labor Party's association with communists. It is because of the likes of him that there are people who think there is some value in communism. Does the honourable member realise that he is the outstanding example in this country to people who think there is some value in that ideology? It is because of the excesses of people like him that they exist. I put it to him that it is only because of the moderation of the Labor Party and the middle of the road social reform party that this element within the Australian community has in fact been curbed and absorbed in many ways within that structure. Rather than being poked at I think members of the Labor Party are to be applauded because they provide for people who have views which could correspond with some of the views- 
House adjourned at 11 p.m. until 10 a.m. on Tuesday, 8th May 1973, or until such time thereafter as  Mr Speaker  may take the chair. 
I ask the Minister for Education a question. Is he aware of Press reports that  Mr Scanlan,  the Assistant Minister for Education in Victoria, has said that the Federal Government through the Minister has refused a request for an emergency grant of $17m for handicapped children in Victoria? The Victorian Minister went on to say that special grants had been made for technical education and isolated children without reference to the Interim Schools Committee on a previous occasion. I ask: Did the Minister refuse this request on the basis that it should go to the Interim Schools Committee, and if not, will he give the reasons why? 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy will be aware of the severe petrol price cutting war that is presently being undertaken in Victoria and other places in Australia. Can the Minister tell the House what he considers to be the issues involved in this petrol price cutting situation? What action is the Government prepared to take to see that motorists and other users of fuel in Australia are able to obtain supplies of petrol at a fair and reasonable price? 
I desire to ask the Treasurer a question supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Adelaide. When the Treasurer referred to clarification for the Commissioner of Taxation in relation to the sale of property within one year of purchase did the Treasurer mean, for instance, that if a person purchased a second home as a holiday proposition and then saw fit to sell the property within 12 months he would have to make this known in his taxation return and that any gain would be assessed for taxation purposes? Does the Commissioner have a discretion to determine whether the property was purchased with the intention of resale at a profit, or whether the property was sold later for a genuine reason? Under the proposition of the Treasurer is a person automatically taxed on the gain, or is the Commissioner left with any discretion? 
At the outset of my speech I wish to congratulate the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  on his remarks concerning this Bill. I could not help but notice his consistent attitude when he believes that the national Parliament ought to be asserting itself in establishing national priorities.  His  attitude towards the Territorial Sea and Continential Shelf Bill and his attitude towards the great national project proposed in this Bill are consistent. There seems to be a fundamental argument about the role of the Authority. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  suggests that the 
Authority ought to be nothing more than a common carrier. The Government believes - and the belief is reflected in the Bill - that the Authority should be able  to  acquire and sell on a wholesale basis natural gas and petroleum products. The relevant section of the Bill appears under the heading 'Functions, duties and powers of the Authority'. It provides: 
to construct pipelines for the conveyance of petroleum recovered from Australian petroleum pools to centres of population and points of export with a view to the establishment of a national integrated system of such pipelines, and to maintain and operate those pipelines; 
10 convey, through the pipes operated by the Authority, petroleum belonging to the Authority or to other persons; and 
to buy and sell petroleum, whether in Australia or elsewhere. 
That provision describes the job envisaged for the Authority by the Government. The function of the Authority perhaps could better be explained by this analogy: The Authority will act as a primary reticulation authority. I do not think anyone would suggest that the Sydney County Council, which is the electricity reticulation authority in metropolitan Sydney, is only a common carrier for the Electricity Commission of New South Wales. The truth is quite to the contrary. The Sydney Council Council purchases power at wholesale rates and reticulates it to the metropolitan suburbs, to people living within Sydney. In the same vein, the proposed Authority will purchase natural gas and will convey it to the city gate, where other secondary reticulation authorities within a metropolitan region, such as the Australian Gas Light Co. in Sydney can take it over. While I am mentioning the Australian Gas Light Co. I would like to give great credit to the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  for defeating the obvious manoeuvre of the Australian Gas Light Co. which had planned to build a pipeline between Gidgealpa and Sydney. Eventually the Australian Gas Light Co. pipeline would have moved right across Australia, giving the company complete control of natural gas within the Commonwealth. The Australian Gas Light Co. had detailed plans to accomplish that objective. The initiatives of the Minister in respect of transportation and acquisition of natural gas have ensured that Australia's natural gas will be fairly and adequately distributed. 
It seems we are always hearing from supporters of the Liberal Party moans and whines about any project they consider to be socialistic. Honourable members who were here many years ago would have heard similar moans about plans for the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority which was set up by the national Parliament to do a somewhat similar job in another resource. The critics said that it was an overly nationalistic project and would be too expensive. Yet time has proved that it was well within the capacity of the Commonwealth, as is the planned Authority. 
In the United States there are about 170,000 miles of natural gas pipeline to serve a population of about 205 million people. Australia has a population of about 13 million people. On the basis of the ratio of pipeline to population as in the United States, Australia should have between 11,000 and 12,000 miles of natural gas pipeline, whereas only about 3,000 miles of pipeline is to be laid. Lateral pipelines are also to be laid, for instance, from the main pipeline to Orange and Bathurst, and from Sydney north to Newcastle and south to Wollongong. Pipeline is also to be laid from Albury to Melbourne and north to Brisbane. Taking all the laterals into account, about 5,500 miles of natural gas pipeline is to be laid. Clearly this is well inside the ratio which is evident in the United States. 
The first stage, to be laid from Gidgealpa to Sydney, runs for about 780 miles. Originally it was to be constructed by the Australian Gas Light Co. through a subsidiary. It is to cost the Commonwealth between $180m and $200m, which is not a great amount in terms of the total annual Budget administered by this Parliament. The Snowy Mountains Authority was financed out of Consolidated Revenue. There is no reason to doubt that this proposed pipeline authority cannot be financed out of Consolidated Revenue. We have heard the figures of $ 1,700m and $ 1,800m mentioned as being the final cost of an integrated pipeline system in Australia. But that expenditure is spread over a number of years. If those costs were amortised on an annual basis, we would find it would be a fairly small outlay for the massive return that the people of Australia would receive. 
It has been suggested by a number of Opposition members that the Government has no real mandate from the people for this program. This policy was mentioned by the Leader of the Australian Labor Party  (Mr Whitlam)  in his election policy speech and it is also incorporated at page 29 of the decisions of the 1971 Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party. In the section headed Transport' at l.(h) it states: 
Transmission of natura] gas by an interstate ring main to ensure continuity of supplies and uniformity of price. 
As every member of this Parliament knows, the Labor Party, unlike the other parties, markets its policies in a platform that is freely available to the people. So, the people understood completely what the Labor Party had in mind in the area of natural gas and petroleum. We intend to see that our natural resources are not plundered and raped by private enterprise in this country and are not exploited for their own purposes. 
Honourable members can look at the Australian Gas Light Co. as a classic example. Under the Australian Gas Light Act - a New South Wales Act - the Australian Gas Light Co. was permitted to make a profit which, I believe, was not to exceed 2 per cent of the long term bond rate. But the company established a subsidiary company to construct and operate its natural gas pipeline from Gidgealpa to Sydney. As I said earlier, the company envisaged that not only would it construct that pipeline but also a pipeline right across the Commonwealth. The company also priced the construction of this pipeline on an export potential, which it had no authority to do because the former Minister for National Development in the last Government,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, had stated on a number of occasions that no export of natural gas would be permitted until the reserves had been proven. Yet, the Australian Gas Light Co. was prepared to attempt to do this. This is just another reason why this sort of pipeline authority should be developed under the control of the national Parliament. 
The right honourable member for Higgins said that he did not think that the pipeline authority should be able to make a profit. With an outlay initially of about $200m for the 780 miles, it is obvious that there must be some sort of return on investment and I believe that the Government envisages only a reasonable return. But it would be quite wrong to shackle the authority with provisions in this Bill, which will eventually become an Act, and so limit its whole area of operations. The real bonus with a national pipeline authority is that, if a comprehensive grid system is established, it would permit a lot of decentralisation within our country. As hon ourable members know, Australia is one of the most urbanised countries in the world, with most of our population centred on our 6 capital cities. 
One of the great problems of decentralisation is to find an area which has the heat, energy and water and all the other essentials to establish a town, a city or an industry. Today, the password to the successful establishment of new towns is energy. If energy could be supplied at a uniform cost throughout the Commonwealth, regardless of location, then 1 think it would be a helpful and useful step towards decentralisation. As members of the Australian Country Party are always talking about decentralisation, I am sure that they would see the value of this Bill in the sense that it would provide cheap supplies of energy to decentralised towns. 
In New South Wales many years ago, a Labor government introduced legislation for the uniform pricing of bulk electricity to all authorities within New South Wales so that small county councils were able to receive electricity supplies from the Electricity Commission of New South Wales at a uniform price. So, for instance, the Sydney County Council received its electricity at the same price as the Gwydir County Council or any of the other country county councils. Similarly, the authority proposed under this Bill will be able to supply natural gas at a uniform price throughout the length and breadth of the Commonwealth. 
The amendment moved by the honourable member for Farrer does not deserve the support of this House. The amendment states:   . . the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted so that the National Pipeline Authority provides for Australia  a  public utility for the transportation at  a  fair price of petroleum on behalf of producers, distributors and users but so that the Authority may not be used as an instrument of nationalisation of the Petroleum Industry thereby inhibiting- 
I do not know how it will inhibit -  the search for and development of petroleum by private enterprise. 
I do not think that that amendment holds water. Honourable members opposite talk about setting up this massive investment in an authority. But the authority will act only as a common carrier to carry the gas of some private company. After all, the gas belongs to the people of Australia, anyway. I think it would be foolhardy to restrict this Authority to the limits of an Act which did not allow it to purchase and. sell gas. 
I will not weary the House for very much longer but I wanted to make one last point. One of the other values of a grid system is that it guarantees the supply of gas to all parts of the country. If a large vessel were to collide with one of the off-shore drilling rigs in, for instance, Bass Strait, it could cripple the city of Melbourne overnight. If the city were not interconnected in a grid system supplying gas from Palm Valley, Gidgealpa or any other source of supply within the region, we could ana that supplies of gas to a city or a region were restricted. If there happened to be an earthquake of even minor proportions, there could be an interruption of the supply of gas. This is another reason why this system should be integrated into a complete grid. 
I believe the House should pay a compliment to the Minister for Minerals and Energy for his concept of a grid system. He enunciated in this House the concept of a grid system a few years ago and he was instrumental in having this provision written into the Federal platform of the Australian Labor Party. Now it has become a Bill for an Act and will become an Act. It will become one of the great national initiatives of this first Whitlam Government. So, I believe that, like the Snowy Mountains Authority and the other things he is doing such as establishing the national minerals and petroleum authority and other authorities, the Minister is laying the guidelines and the foundations for a comprehensive fuel and energy policy for the people of Australia, in perpetuity. I support the Bill. 
For the second time in 2 days I have much pleasure in following the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  in a debate on associated matters. I would like to pay him the compliment of saying that he has been consistent in his attitude to this legislation. In fact he and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and the honourable T. E. F. Hughes, the previous honourable member for Berowra, were the 3 people in former governments who were consistent in trying to ensure that the Commonwealth had adequate powers in the area in which they believed the Commonwealth should be asserting itself. I refer firstly to the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill for which the right honourable member for Higgins and also the honourable member for Moreton suffered at the hands of their own Party, and their collective efforts with the honourable member for Berowra in relation to the corporation power of the Constitution which was tested in the High Court of Australia at their behest. The result was a judgment which reiterated the restrictive trade practices legislation and gave this Parliament power to introduce a uniform companies law and laws over all trading and financial corporations. In those 2 areas - the area of offshore legislation and the area of comprehensive company law - which are vital to this Parliament, this Parliament has extended powers. 
I congratulate the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  on the introduction of this Bill. It is much the same as what is termed the Gorton Bill - the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. It was promised by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his policy speech in 1972. It was mentioned in the Governor-General's address to the Parliament in 1973. It will allow the legal position as to sovereignty to be exercised by the States and the Commonwealth to be determined in the High Court. In fact, the Minister virtually said this in his second reading speech. The Bill is a mixture of the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill and a mining code for minerals. Up to clause 16 of the Bill it is almost identical with the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. It differs from the Gorton Bill inasmuch as it was a declaratory Bill. It declared that it had sovereignty over the territorial sea but it never asserted it. But Part III of this Bill has a mechanism in it to exercise sovereignty and to assert sovereignty. The amendment, which I could not support, states in part (a):  deplores the method adopted by the Government of proceeding without consultation with the States especially in relation to the code which is contained in Part III of the Bill . . . 
Part III of the Bill is the mining code. To show the inconsistency of some members of the Opposition, including the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  who moved the amendment, honourable members opposite probably would not like to be reminded that the previous Minister for National Development, who introduced this Bill, said at page 1276 of Hansard 16th April 1970: 
The present Bill will be followed later in this session by an off-shore mining Bill by which the Commonwealth will exercise sovereign control, in respect of mining for all minerals other than petroleum, on the seabed and in the subsoil of the whole area to which the authority of the Commonwealth extends. 
So it was the intention of the previous Government, the honourable member for Parramatta and others who supported him in his Party room today and yesterday, to introduce a Bill to complement the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. To illustrate again the consistency of the right honourable member for Higgins, he said in a speech recorded in Hansard of 15th May 1970, after a statement by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  attacking him on his stand, that he told the honourable member who was then Minister for National Development to eliminate from any proposed letter he was writing to the States any suggestion that the Commonwealth would not legislate unilaterally until after the completion of full and frank discussions with the States on the matter. He said that because he knew full well, as he knows now, that you can never reach any finality with the States about it. They are opposed to it and (the only way this matter can be determined is if it goes to the High Court. 
In relation to the proposed Bill that was to be introduced by the previous Liberal Government, I might say that some of the provisions of that Bill were similar to the Petroleum Submerged Lands Bill. In that proposed Bill there were 3 options: (a) to leave the administration of this area with the Commonwealth; (b) to have some of the States administer it jointly with the Commonwealth; or (c) to have all the States completely administer the off-shore of Australia. Under the mining code in Part III of the Bill, we do not fiddle around with those considerations. We assert that we have sovereignty. We have put the mechanism in Part HI of the Bill and we say without any beg pardons that we will administer it. If in the final analysis it does not have effect, it will only be due to the High Court invalidating the legislation. The Bill does not affect the provisions of the Petroleum Submerged Lands Act. It is allowed to operate independently of it. But what it says is that we will have complete control over minerals offshore. 
The honourable member for Parramatta introduced into the debate a lot of legal technicalities, again talking about consultation with the States as a way of letting himself and his Party out of the dilemma they are in. The honourable member talked about the question of internal waters. We have provided in the Bill that any internal waters as at Federation do not come within the ambit of this legislation. For example, we would not consider Port Jackson to fall within the ambit of the Bill. But those areas which are on the landward side of the base line drawn between headlands, to determine the extent of the 3- mile territorial sea limits, which are termed in the Bill as being internal waters are regarded by the Government as being within the sovereignty of the Commonwealth. It is fatuous to argue whether an area remains the property of the States and whether a State would not allow a pipeline or anything else to go offshore across State lands. As the right honourable member for Higgins has just said, no State would disagree and if it did the Commonwealth under other powers could resume the land if it saw fit to do so. 
There has been agitation for this legislation for many years.  Sir Percy  Spender, who was a Minister and a member of this Parliament for a long time and also a Justice of the International Court of Justice, said in 1969 that the Australian Constitution gave the Commonwealth sovereignty over the off-shore of Australia and that the Commonwealth Parliament ought to be able to legislate in relation to the areas. In the famous High Court case of Bonser v. La Macchia in 1969 all 6 members of the Court rejected the contention that the Commonwealth did not have sovereignty beyond the 3-mile territorial sea. On that occasion  Mr Justice  Barwick, the Chief Justice of Australia, said: 
It is quite clear historically if one examines the descriptions of the Territory placed under the governorship that the Territory of the original colony of New South Wales, except as to certain islands of the Pacific, did not extend beyond low watermark. The same can be said for other Australian colonies. 
So there is a fairly clear assertion of what he believes ought to be the Commonwealth's rights in this matter. We believe that all members of the High Court will see it that way. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy in his second reading speech said that under Part III of the BUI the Commonwealth will be administering off-shore mining in relation to exploration and production. In referring to per mits and licences for exploration and production the Minister said: 
Such a permit grants its holder an exclusive right to explore for specified minerals in an area not exceeding SOO blocks, that is an area of approximately 575 square miles. The initial permit term is 2 years, and there is provision for renewals, for periods of 2 years each, subject to the permittee's compliance with the permit conditions and the legislation. Upon each renewal the permittee must relinquish at least onequarter of the area previously held. 
That will give honourable members just some idea of the provisions in the Bill. The Minister went on to say: 
Upon discovery of a mineral deposit, a permittee may apply for a production licence, covering no more than SO blocks, that is an area of approximately 58 square miles, of his previous permit area. If the permittee has complied with, the permit conditions and the legislative provisions he has a right to a licence with an initial term of 21 years. 
They are the type of provisions that should have been written into the  Petroleum (Submerged  Lands) Act. Because the Act was aborted by virtue of the arrangements with the States, we have seen the States administer the provisions in  a  disgraceful  way, where by contrast  with the maximum area of 575 square miles provided in this Bill we have WoodsideBurmah with 143,000 square miles. Also there is the provision that  no one else can explore  in that given area for any other material or resource. Under the provisions of Part HI of this Bill we could find someone exploring for gravel beside someone who exploring for oil or someone exploring for gold beside someone who is exploring for nickel. All of these activities would be taking  place within the one  given area. 
This type of provision would have been written in to the Commonwealth legislation had the previous Liberal Government asserted that the Commonwealth did have power in this area and that the Petroleum (Submerged Lands)  Act  was  under the exclusive control  of the Commonwealth as is the mining code incorporated in Part III of this Bill. So I think that the Bill does  deserve support  I  think the  amendment is a contemptible one inasmuch as it is only a let-out for some members of the Opposition who on other occasions supported the views of the right honourable member for Higgins. They are  now prepared  to back away  from the stand they took on that  occasion. It is time the Parliament asserted its sovereignty  over the  off-shore  areas of  Australia. It  is ludicrous to think that an  island continent like Australia cannot be spoken for in definite terms in the forums of the world as a nation by its representatives and that the 6 States are needed to ratify matters of import. I commend the Minister for introducing this legislation which is another step in his plan to provide for Australia a comprehensive energy and resources policy. I believe that he deserves the congratulations of the House. The Bill deserves support; the amendment deserves defeat. 
I seek leave to make a short statement to clarify a question I asked at question time. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question supplementary to the questions asked by the honourable members for Mackellar and New England concerning the concealing of information about Government expenses and expenses of Ministers. Did I ask a question about ministerial expenses and perquisites last year? Did the question sit on the notice paper for many months and was it withdrawn after I was informed by the then Prime Minister and the Treasurer that an increase in the Canberra daily allowance would not be paid to members until I withdrew the question? Did the  Clerk  note the details of the withdrawal of the question and was the present  Speaker  required to withdraw a similar question? If there is to be any imputation concerning extravagant expenses and perquisites, does the Prime Minister regard this matter as a serious attempt to conceal information? Will he assure the House that no such action will be taken by him or by any members of his Government? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, by both the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  The details as I outlined them yesterday were correct. The salaries Bills were introduced by the then Prime Minister in December and after the failure to pass the Bills I placed on notice a question relating to the payments, other than salary, made to each Minister in the year 1970-71. That question lay on the notice paper for a period of 4 months. It was placed on the notice paper on 9 December. 
On 19 April 1972 1 was approached by an intermediary who said that he had a message from the. 2 honourable gentlemen I have mentioned requesting that I take the question off the notice paper and indicating that if I did not do so the increase in the Canberra allowance from $15 to $22 would not be forthcoming to my colleagues. I told him that that was not the way I normally operated and to tell the 2 honourable gentlemen to take a jump at themselves. The next day he came back again with the same request, only this time it was in more serious terms. He said: 'If you do not take it off none of them will get the increase, and I do not think you ought to hold it back for every member of the House'. So I went to the Senior Parliamentary Officer at about 11 o'clock in the evening and asked him to take the question off. 
I have here page 13302 of the notice paper of 20 April 1972. It shows question No. 4941, asked by the honourable member for 
Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  followed by my question No. 4944. On the next day of sitting, 26 April 1972, notice paper No. 167 showed question No. 4941, asked by the honourable member for Grayndler. My question had gone from the notice paper.  Mr Speaker,  yesterday I also mentioned that you had asked questions on a similar subject and that you had been given the same treatment. In notice paper No, 166 of 20 April 1972, following question No. 5119, asked by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  there were 3 questions asked by you relating to a similar topic. On the next day of sitting, 26 April, question No. 5119 which was asked by  Mr Whitlam  remained on the notice paper but yours had disappeared. But yours,  Mr Speaker,  had not disappeared because they were answered; they were taken off in a similar way to mine. The next day of sitting was 26 April. That same day the then Prime Minister made a statement dated 26 April containing details of the allowances. So I will leave it to the Parliament to make its own assessment 
Quite so. The point is chat the 2 gentlemen may not remember the circumstances but they are very humble and contrite gentlemen these days. I ask the Mouse to cast its mind back to 1971, when the now Labour Opposition burst into 
No,  Mr Speaker,  I am trying to outline the circumstances concerning this matter. 

 - Mr Speaker, let me say this: I removed my question from the notice paper because I was approached twice by an Intermediary. If the 2 right honourable gentlemen opposite want to know who it was, I will not break a confidence but will write the name on a piece of paper and give it to them, and they can sort it out themselves. Obviously,  Mr Speaker,  you also removed your question. It was not answered. It was a question on a similar subject to mine and we had had a conversation about it. We both know why it was taken off the notice paper; the increase was subsequently paid. I know that the 2 honourable gentlemen concerned want to try to wriggle out of the allegation but they cannot; it is as simple as that. 

 Mr SNEDDEN (Bruce- Leader of the Opposition) -  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a statement about this matter. 
Mir Keating -  Mr Speaker,  could I make a further personal explanation? 
I ask that the Leader of the Opposition withdraw that imputation because- 
No,  Mr Speaker,  I want him to withdraw the imputation that it was a false statement, because I want him to explain to the House, to clear my name, why you and I both withdrew our questions and why, on the next day of sitting- 
May I request that the relevant documents lie on the table? 
Have I leave? 
I seek leave to table the documents and have them incorporated in Hansard. 
What was the  (a)  purpose,  (b)  length or visit and (c) total cost of each visit. 
On how many occasions was the wife of the Minister or office holder included in the delegation and what were the names of the persons concerned. 
What was the cost for the wife of those concerned on each occasion. 
What is the total cost of all these overseas visits during the 27th Parliament to date. 4941  Mr Daly:  To ask the Prime Minister- 
How many visits abroad have been made by departmental officials in each year since the commencement of the 27th Parliament. 
What was the  (a)  purpose of each visit,  (b)  name and department of the officer concerned, (c) destination, 
countries visited and  (e)  total cost in each case. 
On how many occasions has the wife of an official accompan ed the delegation and what were  (a)  the names of those concerned and  (b)  the separate costs to the Government in each case 
What is the total cost of all these overseas visits during the 27th Parliament to date. 4944  Mr Keating:  To ask the Prime Minister - What payments, other than salary, were made to each Minister during 1970-71, and what do these payments represent. 4946  Mr Keogh:  To ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health- 
What amount was paid by the Commonwealth to Queensland  (a)  under the National Health Act as subsidies for both insured and uninsured occupied beds in public wards in Queensland public hospitals during 1969-70 and (A) under the amended National Health Act as a result of the requirement to pay a full $2 subsidy on all occupied beds during 1970-71. 
What is the estimated difference between the amount paid under the amended Act during 1970-71 and the amount which would have been paid if the amendment had not been made.  22 February 1972  4956  Mr Grassby:  To ask the Prime Minister- 
Is it a fact that the plan which he announced in early December 1971 to remove 14,000 woolgrowers from the countryside involves families exceeding 40,000 people. 
Is it also a fact that the established ratio of producers to other rural residents is one to four so that the evacuation of about 100,000 people is involved in the plan. 
Is it the intention of the Government to establish refugee camps for the dispossessed within the capital cities. 
4) Will steps be taken to provide transport for these people, preferably not in sheep trucks, as the $1,000 loan to be provided by the Government to those dispossessed will hardly cover the costs of moving 4957  Mr Klugman:  To ask the Treasurer- 
What is the amount of Commonwealth estate duty payable in cases where an estate passes to a widow, widower, children or grandchildren, and where the dutiable value of the estate is  (a)  $19,999 or less,  (b)  $25,000,  (c)  $30,000,(d) $40,000,  (e)  $50,000 and  (f)  $100,000. 
On how many estates was probate granted during each of the years 1967-68. 1968-69, 1969-70 and 1970-71. 
How many of the estates referred to in part (2) were assessed for Commonwealth estate duty in each of those years. 4959  Mr Klugman:  To ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health - What was the saving to (a) the Department of Health, (ft) hospital funds and (c) medical funds by treating psychiatric hospitals and their patients differently to other public hospitals in (i) non-payment to patients and (ii) non-payment to hospitals, in each of the last 10 years. 13398  No. 167-26 April 1972 
What was the  (a)  purpose, (ft) length of visit and (c) total cost of each visit. 
On how many occasions was the wife of the Minister or office holder included in the delegation and what were the names of the persons concerned. 
What was the cost for the wife of those concerned on each occasion. 
What is the total cost of all these overseas visits during the 27th Parliament to date. 4941  Mr Daly:  To ask the Prime Minister - 
How many visits abroad have been made by departmental officials in each year since the commencement of the 27th Parliament. 
What was the (a) purpose of each visit, (ft) name and department of the officer concerned, (c) destination, 00 countries visited and (e) total cost in each case. 
On how many occasions has the wife of an official accompanied the delegation and what were  (a)  the names of those concerned and (ft) the separate costs to the Government in each case. 
What is the total cost of all these overseas visits during the 27th Parliament to date. 4946  Mr Keogh:  To ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health - 
What amount was paid by the Commonwealth to Queensland  (a)  under the National Health Act as subsidies for both insured and uninsured occupied beds in public wards in Queensland public hospitals during 1969-70 and (6) under the amended National Health Act as a result of the requirement to pay a full $2 subsidy on all occupied beds during 1970-71. 
What is the estimated difference between the amount paid under the amended Act during 1970-71 and  the amount which would have been paid if the amendment had not been made.  22 February 1972  4956  Mr Grassby:  To ask the Prime Minister - 
ls it a fact that the plan which he announced in early December 1971 to remove 14,000 woolgrowers from the countryside involves families exceeding 40,000 people. 
ls it also a fact that the established ratio of producers to other rural residents is one to four so that the evacuation of about 100,000 people is involved in the plan. 
Is it the intention of the Government to establish refugee camps for the dispossessed within the capital cities. 
Will steps be taken to provide transport for these people, preferably not in sheep trucks, as the $1,000 loan to be provided by the Government to those disposessed will hardly cover the costs of moving. 4957  Mr Klugman:  To ask the Treasurer - 
What is the amount of Commonwealth estate duty payable in cases where an estate passes to a widow, widower, children or grandchildren, and where the dutiable value of the estate is  (a)  $19,999 or less, (ft) $25,000, (c) $30,000,  (d)  $40,000, (e) $50,000 and (/) $100,000. 
On how many estates was probate granted during each of the years 1967-68, 1968-69,  1969-70  and 1970-71. 
How many of the estates referred to in part (2) were assessed for Commonwealth estate duty in each of those years. 4959  Mr Klugman:  To ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health - What was the saving to  (a)  the Department of Health,  (b)  hospital funds and  (c)  medical funds by treating psychiatric hospitals and their patients differently to other public hospitals in (i) non-payment to patients and (ii) non-payment to hospitals, in each of the last 10 years. 
I rise to support the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1973 which deals with deductions for capital subscribed to mining companies. Before I deal with the more technical aspects of this legislation I would like to take up a couple of points raised by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland).  He said that the Liberal Party will oppose the Bill because at believes that it is against the interests of Australia to break the continuity of the exploration by small companies for oil and minerals in Australia. It has been the aim of the Government to rationalise exploration for oil and minerals in this country. As this Government inherited virtually a shambles in this area on 2 December 1972, we felt that it was incumbent upon us to bring some sort of rational thinking to the whole question of exploration and production of oil and minerals. 
Under the terms of the present legislation a lot of small companies have benefited by this legislation. Whilst that is a healthy thing, the fact of the matter is that a lot of the small companies spawned during the mining boom of 1970-71 and early in 1972 were set up just to have some sort of scrip on the market by which the founders of the companies were able to realise a capital profit. They reaped the benefits of sections 77c, 77d and 78 of the Income Tax Assessment Act in so doing. Whilst there were a lot of genuine small explorers operating in Australia and whilst they did gain some of the benefits from those sections of the Income Tax Assessment Act, nevertheless a lot of the sharks and lurk merchants jumped into the act in 1970. I refer to companies like Harbourside Oil NL which was founded by the famous Alexander Barton. The technique used with these companies was to set up a small company with a fairly limited scrip, and once it got on to the market in those boom conditions for no other reason than the fact that it was an exploration company there was an increment as soon as it hit the stock exchange. Then if the scrip was successful one found that members of the family and companies associated with the founders of the company were able to take up options once they had proved that the scrip had a certain market value. They then reaped a capital profit. These companies were able to reap the benefits of this section of the Act. 
The Government has recently taken away the subsidies for oil exploration in this country. At the same time it is cancelling the subsidies under section 77 of this Act. In a Press release yesterday and in a statement in the House by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  it was stated that the Government's desire is to assist genuine Australian mining ventures in their initial stages if they are capable of being developed into substantial producers. In other words, any small companies that really have something reasonable to explore will be looked at by the Bureau of Mineral Resources and, if the Government feels they are worth supporting, it will tip some of the capital into them that it has saved by taking this concession out of the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
On 7 May 1973 the Government decided to withdraw the income tax concessions provided by sections 77c, 77d and 78 of the Income Tax Assessment Act for capital subscribed to companies for expenditure on mining or prospecting for oil and minerals. On 16 July 1972 the previous Government foreshadowed amending legislation to curb misuse of those concessions. The present Government decided to adopt these proposals. Amendments are proposed by this Bill to give effect to both decisions. As the law stands at present, section 77d provides for an income tax deduction for Australian resident shareholders who subscribe capital to companies engaged in mining or exploring for petroleum - including oil and natural gas - or minerals. The deduction is allowable to the shareholders where the companies concerned lodge with the Commissioner of Taxation a declaration that the moneys they have subscribed are for expenditure on prospecting or mining activities. As the legislation exists, the company making the declaration forgoes the right to deductions against its own income for the expenditure of moneys specified in the declaration. A company interposed between the shareholders and the mining company can, by a similar process of declaration, pass the entitlement to a deduction under section 77d back to the shareholders. 
Section 77c provides a deduction of onethird of calls paid on shares issued after 9 May 1968 in mining or afforestation companies by residents and non-residents of Australia. Where the calls are paid to companies, the deduction is available if the company makes a declaration to the Commissioner of Taxation that it will itself expend those call moneys on exploration for minerals obtainable by mining operations. The mining company is not required to forgo entitlement to deductions for expenditure on prospecting. Section 78 (1) (b) applies to calls paid on shares issued prior to 9 May 1968 to mining companies by residents and non-residents of Australia. This is a long-standing concession which permits a deduction of one-third of the calls paid without the need for a declaration by the mining company. 
This Bill proposes the withdrawal of the concessions provided by sections 77c, 77d and 78 for capital subscribed after 7 May 1973 to companies mining or exploring for oil or minerals except where payment is made by a person who owned the share on that date in respect of a call made on or before that date. It does not withdraw the concession for calls paid to afforestation companies. A special transitional provision is also proposed to cover the situation where, before the termination date, a listed public company had raised new capital or made a call to enable it to provide capital to an associated mining company for expenditure on exploration or mining. In these circumstances the associated company would be able to lodge a declaration under section 77d in respect of the capital subscribed by the listed public company. This will preserve the entitlement to deductions of shareholders in the listed interposed company. 
The existing legislation is typical of what I think is the shortsighted and ill thought out concessions which successive Liberal governments have handed out to special interest groups. These tax concessions have proved an expensive and inefficient form of Government assistance to the mining industry. The number of explorers who were spending up to $50,000 per annum on exploration declined from 539 in 1971 to 395 in 1972, but the 395 represented 61.3 per cent of all explorers. This year seismic search in Australia has declined to its lowest point since 1965. So the concessions have not been very valuable to the mining and exploration industry. The Bill quite properly deals with the misuse of the concessions for tax avoidance purposes which has put revenue at risk to the tune of several hundred million dollars. The amendments were foreshadowed by the former Treasurer on 16 July 1972 and will apply in respect of capita] subscriptions made between that date and the termination of the concessions. Basically, the proposals are aimed at arrangements designed to obtain deductions under the concessions while at the same time recovering the major part of the capital subscribed, without risk, by the subscriber. The concession is always open to this kind of misuse and abuse. 
A typical example is the arrangement whereby a number of investors enter into an agreement with a public listed company for the purchase by it, at a discounted price, of shares in a mining company they have formed and invested in, either directly or through an interposed mining investment company. Through the use of section 77d they obtain tax deductions that may be worth up to 68 per cent of their investment and then recover through the sale of the shares about 85 per cent of their invested capital. The effect of these arrangements is that, at most, only 15 per cent of the capital subscribed is new money available for exploration and mining. Yet some honourable members opposite still tell us that it is an efficient way to assist the mining industry. In many cases the established mining company which acquires the control of subscribed funds is substantially owned by overseas interests. To overcome this type of scheme the Bill proposes that if at any time after 16 July 1972 shares in a mining or exploration company are sold to a mining company or to a mining investment company and, at the time of sale, the capital subscribed on the shares has not been expended by the mining or exploration company in accordance with a declaration under section 77c or 77d, the deduction otherwise available to the subscriber will be reduced, in the case of section 77d, by the sale price of the shares and, in the case of section 77c, by onethird of the sale price. The Bill also includes safeguarding provisions to cover cases of indirect acquisition of shares by an established mining company and cases where shares are sold for inadequate consideration. 
The proposed amendments will not apply where the shares being sold are shares in a public listed company unless arrangements have been made between the vendor and an established mining company that in any way depended on the right of the vendor to sell his shares. The second anti-avoidance pro posal is directed at misuses of section 77d concessions in a way that can effectively confer 2 income tax deductions on taxpayers for moneys subscribed on mining shares acquired for resale at a profit. This type of scheme involves the subscription of capital for mining shares acquired for resale through an interposed company which lodges a declaration in favour of its shareholders. When the interposed company sells its mining shares it can claim a deduction against the sale price for the capital subscribed on those shares despite the fact that it has lodged a declaration to confer a deduction for this amount on its shareholders. This is another weakness in the existing legislation which should have been plugged a long time ago. The amendments proposed in this area are to the effect that a company that has lodged a declaration for share capital subscribed to it after 16 July 1972 will not be entitled to claim a deduction in its own right in respect of expenditure of the capital on shares in a mining company. In other words, it cannot have it both ways. Certain technical defects in the provisions of section 77d are also to be rectified. 
The amendments may be summarised in simple form in this way. Firstly, they will make it clear that where a mining or exploration company fails to expend moneys subscribed to it after 16 July 1972 in accordance with a declaration under section 77d, any reduction in the level of deductions allowable to its shareholders will also be carried through to the shareholders of an interposed company which had benefited from the declaration lodged by the mining or exploration company. Secondly, they will enable companies to lodge section 77d declarations at any time before the expiration of one month after the end of the year of income in which it receives share moneys. Finally, they will make it clear that expenditure on exploration and mining development made by a company is to be regarded as having been paid firstly out of any moneys that have been declared by the company under section 77d. The last mentioned amendment will overcome the technical deficiencies in the present law that can permit a productive mining company to defer payment of tax on income up to the amount of deductions that it has transferred to its shareholders by a declaration under section 77d. 
Basically the Government has been very concerned about the misuses and abuses of the income tax provisions for mining companies. While I said that these proposals for amendment were foreshadowed by the previous Government, they should have been introduced a lot earlier, because the openings that were available to all the fly-by-night companies which were developed during the mining boom for a capital appreciation of stock and which at the same time were reaping the benefits of the present taxation provisions, should have been plugged. At the moment small exploration companies, in which the Opposition now claims to be so vitally interested, are in a dilemma in this country because most of them do not have the money to prove and to reach production stage in any of the areas that they are exploring. It is a pity that the Opposition when in government did not make some effort to see that a company such as Woodside Australia Ltd was given the capital that it needed to explore, develop and produce in areas which it was given on the north-west shelf of Australia. But of course it had to ask the Burmah Oil Co. of Great Britain to subscribe moneys to it so it could carry on this work. 
Even now there are only 50 exploring companies in Australia that spend over $500,000 each on exploration in any one year, and only 30 of these companies have a budget of over $lm. In the field of oil exploration and production not one of these companies would be able to drill and prove one hole offshore in one year. So we can see the complete fallacy of the talk from the Opposition about small exploration companies. Where small exploration companies are searching for minerals there is certainly a case to be made where the small company, through ingenuity and persistence, can come up with a result, but at the same time we believe that these small companies can be assisted in a much better way by direct assistance, after some scrutiny by the Government through the Bureau of Mineral Resources of the area to be prospected by these companies. So instead of just having a blanket provision in the income tax legislation and making subsidies available directly, leaving their use to the discretion of the company directors concerned, properly the discretion will now be left with the Government. 
Of course the reason that some of these smaller companies still exist is not that they are interested in exploration but that they are interested in keeping enough money in the company - money which they raised during the mining boom and which they would have no chance of raising today - so they can milk it for directors' fees for the next 20 or 25 years. If they seriously wanted to invest their funds in worthwhile projects the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association and other organisations could band the small companies together so they could take up some promising areas like those to be relinquished by Woodside Burmah on the north-west shelf. A conglomerate of these small companies could explore these areas on a farm-in basis. There was never any encouragement for this sort of activity by the last Government. Consistent with our line of thinking on these matters, we believe that sections 77c, 77d and 78 are not being used for the intention for which they were created. They are being abused. They are not helping exploration and mining in this country, and therefore I support the proposals offered by the Treasurer. 
There are 2 things before us at the moment. Firstly, the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has introduced amendments to the original Bill. Also he will be speaking to the amendments made in the Senate, of which notice has been given to the House of Representatives. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  went to great lengths to say that he could not understand what appears to me to be a simple amendment. The Government should not be held responsible for the intellectual inadequacy of the Opposition. I first saw this amendment, or a detailed draft of it, only an hour ago and I can understand why it is necessary. Clause 13 says that the Authority will construct pipelines to convey petroleum and that it will convey through the pipes operated by it petroleum belonging either to it or to other persons. The Bill says that it will be able to buy and sell petroleum. The Minister's amendment clarifies the situation because it states: 
to ensure continuity of supplies of natural gas, that is free from impurities; 
to ensure that natural gas supplied by the Authority is available at a gate-valve delivery price that is, at all times, uniform throughout Australia . . . 
to ensure that condensate, petroleum gas and other substances derived from natural gas are retained and processed in Australia . . . 
to secure, control and retain reserves of petroleum adequate to meet the long term needs of the Australian people. 
It is obvious that the Minister has moved this amendment to clarify the intention of the Government in regard to the functions of the Authority because in view of the way the Bill has been emasculated in the Senate one could be excused for believing they did not understand the Government's intention. The Senate's amendments have totally destroyed the concept of the Bill. 
The Minister's amendment has been moved so that, in the unhappy event that the Liberal and Country parties take office again, honourable members opposite will have the very arduous task of facing the Australian people and saying that they want to take these amendments from the Bill and change the operations and functions of the Authority. That is why they are quite properly to be put in there. While discretion is vested in the Ministers and the Authority if the Parliament makes it clear what it envisages the Authority as doing, successive governments of the persuasion of honourable members opposite will not be able to wreck it in the future as they have wrecked a lot of other national ventures. They are the reasons why these provisions have been included. They are reasonable provisions. It is the aim of the Government to make sure that this pipeline is not just a common carrier but a public utility to serve the nation, to provide natural gas at a uniform price throughout the length and breadth of the Commonwealth. People will have natural gas supplied to them at a uniform price whether they be in areas in the middle of New South Wales or South Australia or in the capital cities of Melbourne, Sydney or Brisbane. 
If that sort of concept had appealed to the previous Government the people of Victoria would not be held to ransom as they are being held now by the slap-happy deals concocted in the past. We now find that the Victorian producers. Esso-BHP, are trying to get into the New South Wales market. They have indicated that they can supply gas to New South Wales at a price dramatically below that offered to Victorian consumers. So, thanks to the previous Government's efforts in the past, the Victorian people are being sold down the drain, day in day out, while they use natural gas. That is why the Government is clearing up this matter. The second stage of the operation will be to reject the Senate's amendments. I would like to speak at that stage of the debate. 
1 am just saying that I intend to speak at that stage of the debate. I will leave my remarks on that matter until later. It is as clear as the nose on your face why these amendments are being proposed. It is not the Government's problem that the Opposition cannot understand simple amendments. 
This is the most obnoxious of all the amendments to the Bill that were made by the Senate. It is one which defeats the intention of the Bill and seeks to have the national Pipeline Authority as merely a common carrier. The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  has just said that he supports the concept of the Bill. That is just humbug. The concept of the Bill is, as the Australian Labor Party said in its policy speech and as is contained in its platform, to provide for the transmission of natural gas by an interstate ring main to ensure continuity of supplies and uniformity pf price. It is not just a milking horse that is to be put there at enormous public expense so that private companies will have a cheap supply line to their markets. The Senate's second amendment reads: 
The Authority shall be deemed to be a common carrier and to have the obligations of a common carrier. 
Without limiting the generality of subsection (1)- 
Listen to this - the Authority shall, subject to the capacity of its pipelines, be under obligation to accept petroleum at any point on its pipelines for delivery at any other point on its pipelines, and to charge for such service a fee which is not greater than - 
a fee which is reasonable having regard to the costs incurred by the Authority for such service. . . . 
What does the Opposition in the Senate think we are by forwarding this sort of amendment to the House of Representatives - lop lollies? It is just impertinence on the part of the Opposition in the Senate to use its numbers to defeat the provisions of a Bill for which the Government has the clear mandate of the people. This is one of the programs mentioned by the Leader of the Australian Labor Party in his policy speech and one of the platforms upon which the Australian Labor Party was elected to office. We reject out of hand this amendment. We could not possibly reach any uniformity of price and rationality of supply if the Authority were to be at the whims of various producers along the line whose produce we were obliged to transmit in the pipeline. The whole concept of the buying and selling of gas is that we would operate as the New South Wales Electricity Commission operates; in other words, we would wholesale the natural gas in the same way as it wholesales electricity, and we would sell to every reticulation authority throughout the length and breadth of the Commonwealth gas at an equal price. 
There are special provisions in the Bill for the Australian Gas Light Co. Ltd in relation to Gidgealpa-Sydney, because of the complexities of the situation, nevertheless the meaning of the provision and the totality of the concept of the Pipeline Authority requires it to acquire, transmit and sell natural gas at a uniform price. We will not be discriminating against producers. We will rationalise the supply. I do not know where the discrimination will be because the producers who supported the Liberal Party under a Liberal government will have access to the pipeline - anyone else will be left behind. The way that this is taken out of the control of the Parliament and put in the hands of a statutory corporation, which would rationalise the supply, would make sure that the price is uniform throughout Australia. The technical difficulties mentioned by the Minister about impurities - carbon dioxide, nitrogen and wet gas - being pumped into the line, are valid. The Government's amendment seeks to overcome those problems by making sure that the Pipeline Authority is able to pump the gas it buys itself. 
The stark, staring example which I mentioned earlier - I will not dwell upon it - is the Victorian situation. The Victorian people have been sold a pup. They are paying a price for the natural gas, but the producers in Victoria can offer to New South Wales consumers gas at two-thirds of that price. If this Authority comes into being, as envisaged in the original Bill, it will be able to supply all the people of Australia with gas at a reasonable price. The Government rejects the Senate's amendment out of hand. It is impertinent of the Opposition in the Senate to propose these amendments and it is impertinent of the Liberal Party to suggest now that it will use its numbers in the Senate to defeat the amended Bill. 
I address my question to the Treasurer. With the widening disparity between the value of the United States dollar and the Australian dollar there would be a tendency for Australian-based United States subsidiaries to raise capital in Australia by debentures and other means. I ask the Treasurer what is his attitude to this type of borrowing. Would he see such raising as bidding up the general level of interest rates, given that the gap between bank interest and the current rate of inflation is widening or, for that matter, the disparity between the bond rate and the current rate of inflation is widening? Does he regard an upward movement in interest rates as being necessarily a bad thing? Does he believe that higher interest rates would slow business expansion, encourage savings, dampen demand and ease inflationary pressures? 
My question to the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry relates to the stainless steel industry and the electronics industry in Australia. Is the Minister aware of growing disquiet within those industries at the impact of the tariff decision which was made by the Government a month or so ago? Is he aware that these industries believe that within 12 months they will be hit seriously by Japanese imports into this country? Is the Government considering any assistance to particular industries which have been affected by the tariff decision? I accept that on balance the decision was a good decision as an anti-inflationary measure. Can we expect a selective adjustment of the tariff on those industries which will be drastically affected? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Unlike the speech of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  who preceded me, my speech will not be read.  His  was a typical Country Party whingeing speech ranging from telephones to hayseeds. All that members of the Country Party are sad about is the fact that they cannot get their grubby little hands in the public till. I say to them: 'It is all over boys and you will have to wait a few more years'. A Budget debate should be a serious debate. The only serious contribution I heard from members opposite was from the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  He had a well prepared speech; nevertheless it was fallacious and a lot of the basic arguments contained therein were totally wrong. 
The atmosphere in which this Government took office was one in which 110,000 persons were unemployed. In August 1972 unemployment stood at 2.10 per cent; it now stands at 1.3 per cent. At present 70,000 people are out of work. This is the lowest figure we have had for years, .yet when Labor took office 110,000 were unemployed. Job vacancies are now at a record high. If honourable members study the 'situations vacant' columns of the Sydney Morning Herald' and similar newspapers they will see that they are filled. The Government expects non-farm production to increase in the economy about 7 per cent this year. Factories are running at full speed and employment is as high as it can get, yet it is unusual to note that on the stock exchange stocks are today at a low. All I can say to people who have any intention of buying growth stocks like Western Mining Corporation and Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd is that it will be a fairly good year ahead and they should buy quickly because the shares are bound to rise. 
 Mr Speaker,  how about some protection from these characters? 
The Government is very conscious of the issue of prices and inflation and the Budget is framed in such a way as not to aggravate that situation. At page 6 of Statement No. 1  -  'Summary of the 1973-74 Budget' - appears the following statement: 
There was a rapid growth in the volume of money which expanded by 26 per cent in the 12 months to June 1973, although there was a marked slowing in that growth in the second half of the year- 
That was when we took office - when tighter restrictions on capital inflow were brought into operation and the Reserve Bank raised the Statutory Reserve Deposit ratio of the major trading banks. 
They were measures the Government took to take some of the money out of the economy. What it did has to be viewed in the context of the two previous years. In 1971-72 the then McMahon Government introduced a Budget which was to take so much demand from the economy as to create a pool of 130,000 unemployed. Last year, 1972-73, the then Government was so panic stricken about such a massive pool of unemployment with an election 3 months off that it injected an enormous amount of money into the economy at the time of the last Budget. It was that injection of money which has given Australia its inflation level of 13 per cent today. The Government is conscious of this situation. It has introduced measures to do something about it and to restrict capital inflow. The Government revalued the dollar by 7.5 per cent in December of last year. It left the Australian dollar static when the United States dollar depreciated by 10 per cent in January of this year. So there was a disparity of 17.5 per cent between the 2 currencies which assisted imports to meet demand on domestic productive capacity. In other words there were more imports to meet local demands and this tended to keep the price of goods down. It caused a flight of $600m out of Australia. This money was hanging around the market and bidding up the price of all commodities. It stopped the wholesale buying of our shares at rock bottom prices on the stock exchange which was allowing foreign companies to take over companies cheaply. Despite this currency re-alighment Australia recorded a major trading surplus to 30 June this year. So exports were not affected. 
The next measure of the Government's was a tariff cut in line with its concern over inflation and prices. Before the cut, imports were expected to increase this year by about 20 per cent. With the cut we will assist expansion in imports and again ease inflationary pressures. I have already referred to the money flight of $600m from Australia since the realignment of the currency. The Government raised statutory reserve deposits with the Reserve Bank to mop up any excess liquidity left about the trading banks and which was tending to bid up prices for goods and services. The Government restricted capital inflow by requiring that 25 per cent of all deposits coming into Australia had to be lodged interest free with the Reserve Bank. That action promptly took foreign money out of the economy, but we were still suffering from the Liberal's last Budget excesses. 
The Government introduced the Prices Justification Tribunal, which now getting under way, to do something about the actual price of products although, as is known, the Australian Constitution binds this Parliament fairly substantially with respect to what it can do directly about price control. By contrast with the last Budget, the present Budget is framed not to add to the massive inflationary pressures already existing in the economy. It is designed to limit demand. In his speech last week the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said:   . . given the need to avoid adding in mt pres.sures on resources, it is necessary that the increase in outlays budgeted for be more than covered by increased receipts. 
In other words, we collected more than we spent. The Treasurer continued: 
In 1972-73- 
That is, last year under  Mr Snedden  -  outlays increased about twice as fast as receipts. 
In other words, there was more money running around the economy. He continued: 
The very different economic circumstances now prevailing dictate a much more circumspect approach. 
That illustrates the Treasurer's view of the present Budget, that it will allow the country to carry on as it is but is an attempt to ease back on inflationary pressures by not putting too much Federal money into the economy. The total outlays for this year will be $12, 168m, but our receipts will be $1 1,481m. That compares more than favourably with last year's deficit of $2 15m. A deficit means that the Commonwealth has spent more than it has collected. Last year $2 15m. This year it will be only $162m which was spent by way of deficit. If we read further from the Treasury document we find the following very enlightening comments:   . . this estimated overall deficit in 1973-74 represents a small decrease of $22m compared with the previous year, whereas the deficit in 1972-73 represented an increase of $576m compared with the previous year. 
That backs up what I have said. The previous Government was so panic stricken about its electoral prospects that it poured that much money into the economy. Yet tonight we had the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  in the House telling us how we were introducing an inflationary Budget. The next item referred to in the document states:   the domestic deficit in 1973-74 is estimated at around $162m, a decrease of 853m compared with 1972-73; 
That happens to be our Budget - 
The domestic deficit in that year, however, represented a turn around (i.e. a swing from surplus to deficit) of $620 compared with 1971-72. 
So, this Government is reducing the deficit by $53m whereas last year the previous Government increased it by $620m. Yet honourable members opposite say that inflation has occurred since 2 December. The only reason that we have inflation in our economy is that the previous Government thought it could buy votes with a big Budget last year and it has left us with the problems of trying to correct it. I seek leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard the table on page 2 of the Summary of the 1973-74 Budget. 
 I thank the House. In  Mr Snedden's  Budget of last year, outlays in Government expenditure rose at twice the rate of the increase in receipts, but it is a different scene today. Even so, we have been able to reassess our priorities and in this Budget fix priorities that have never been fixed before. I should just like to read to honourable members some of the massive increases this Government has provided in certain social areas without giving an overstimulus to the economy. In education we have increased the provision from $439m last year to a staggering $843m, an increase of 92 per cent. We have doubled the allocation for education within 12 months. When we talk in this Parliament about large allocations we think of increases of 5 per cent or 6 per cent, but to increase an allocation by nearly 100 per cent in one year is something this Parliament has never seen before. The Government has increased the appropriation for health from $783m to $979m, an increase of 25 per cent. 
In the area of housing and community amenities we have increased the appropriation from $127m last year to $538m this year, a staggering increase of 324 per cent in one year all framed within a Budget that has less money in the economy than the Budget of last year. If that is not an intelligent reallocation of priorities, 1 do not know what it is. The last item to which I wish to refer is culture and recreation for which the allocation has been increased from $117m last year to $163m this year, a quite massive increase of 40 per cent but pale next to the Increases to which I have just referred. So, through responsibly looking at the needs of the economy and the terrible neglect in the areas of social welfare and education by successive Liberal Party governments, wehave been able to provide for the Australian people and at the same time introduce a Budget that will allow the business of Australia to move along, that will allow our factories to run at peak production, with people at a peak level of employment, with the number of unfilled jobs as high as they ever have been and, at the same time, we have tried to do something creditable about the appalling 13 per cent level of inflation created by the former Government 12 months ago. 
I should like now to deal with one of the items to which I have referred, namely, education. As I said earlier, the allocation for education has increased from last year's figure of $439m to $843m this year. Most of that amount was provided by virtue of the Karmel Committee report. A few moments ago we heard a member of the Country Party, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  talking about children in the outback. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  earlier today talked about children in rural schools not being provided for because, if their parents sent them to Sydney to school, they would miss out because they were category A schools. But what honourable members opposite did not tell the Parliament was that, in accordance with the recommendations of the Karmel Committee, the Government has established an isolated children's allowance of up to $1,000 a head for children living in excess of 2 miles from their schools. So, all this talk about not looking after rural children is just not on. No government has ever done that never the Australian Country Party and never the Liberals and if honourable members opposite do not know about this, they should read their Budget documents. 
The other matter I wish to deal with is the report of the Karmel Committee. This report has come under criticism in this Parliament on quite a few occasions. I should like to deal with the concept of the Karmel Committee and the needs formula which the Labor Party said it would introduce and enshrine in legislation of this Parliament. When we took office last December the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  asked Professor Karmel to set up this Committee to investigate schools and bring down a recommendation on the needs and priorities of schools. Professor Karmel took what he called a recurrent resource use for all State schools as an index of 100. The Opposition claimed that this index was secretly compiled, but it was forwarded to all schools only a month ago. On the basis of this index, it was the aim of Professor Karmel to raise all schools to the level of an index figure of 140 by 1979. That means that some of the schools today, such as the poorer public and Catholic schools with an index figure of 40, will be lifted up to 140 by 1979 and that grants will be made according to what is found in relation to the criteria set down by the index. 
The way the index works is that in category A, the index ranges from 140 to 270. Yet we hear bleating about these wealthy GPS schools, some of which have indexes in the 200 area, whilst some schools in my electorate have an index of only 40. In category B the index ranges from 125 to 140, in category C it ranges from 114 to 125, and so it goes on down to category H which has less than 60. Each category attracts a different level of subsidy so that by 1979 we will have lifted the general standard of schools to an acceptable level. People confuse - of course, the Opposition conveniently confuses - the question of recurrent and capital grants. Even if honourable members opposite confuse this with capital grants and look at the GPS schools which they feel so obliged to protect, they would still find that, under the science and libraries grants system which we are continuing until 1975, an amount of $9.2m will be expended during that period. So, even schools of the GPS character are still attracting that sort of money. I will just read out the names of a few schools to honourable members, if they doubt my word. Take Abbotsleigh Church of England Girls School in New South Wales. It is a category A school. It missed out on an allocation because of recommendations in the Karmel Committee report, but we spent $231,900 on science and library blocks for that school. Kincoppal school at Rose Bay - a Catholic school - received $128,000; Haileysbury College at Keysborough received $303,263; and Scotch College in Hawthorn received $236,000. The science blocks program will continue until 1975 and money is still going to those schools and other schools like them. 
I should like to deal with the question of aid to schools. Education in Australia has been a very impoverished item and it has been entitled to a priority which previous governments have failed to recognise. We have tried to do something about the great majority of poor children who never get a chance, and all we have heard is a debate about 105 schools, most of which have levels of fees ranging between $300 and $900. If a person is earning $4,000 a year he does not send his children to those schools. He would have to be earning in excess of $8,000 or $9,000 and probably up to $20,000 and $30,000. It is mostly people in those income brackets who send their children to those schools. 
We hear people talk about equality of opportunity for the children. What they are really talking about is equality of opportunity for the parents, because wealthy parents can claim a taxation deduction from $150 to $400 for educational expenses. This year we will pay those wealthy parents out of Consolidated Revenue by way of tax rebate for educational expenses $55m, which is more than Karmel has allocated for disadvantaged children. An amount of $55m will go predominantly to wealthy parents. Eighty per cent of the children who attend GPS schools go to universities. It costs this Parliament $5,000 per head per annum to educate them at university and yet they believe they think they are being hardly done by. Honourable members opposite in the Liberal Party and the Country Party represent what is the greediest section of the Australian community, and that is the parents of children going to GPS schools. 
Another disturbing characteristic is that they have used the Democratic Labor Party and the Catholic Church organisation, through the likes of  Mr Santamaria,  to prop up the parents and friends organisations under the ruse that unless per capita grants go to GPS schools they will not go to the Catholic parochial schools either. So they have held the poor parish Catholic schools with children playing in mud playgrounds and being taught in portable huts to ransom for the per capita figure, which is also to go to the wealthy school. This is the great scandal that has been perpetuated. We have had enough of it. We will allocate money as it is needed to children who deserve an opportunity. We have done this by setting up a basis of need under the Karmel Committee report. I felt sick when I read a couple of weeks ago an article by  Mr Santamaria  in which he said: 
It  ought to be axiomatic that you cannot maintain  a  system of state aid in a religiously divided community without both religious and political bi-partisanship. 
What he said was that the bi-partisan concept of aid to independent schools will not remain when the leaders of the Liberal and Country Parties cannot send money to the schools from which they come, and so we had to pay massive amounts of . money just to keep the Liberals interested in the concept of state aid. So we should look at the question of state aid to schools in the light of  Mr Santamaria's  comments and the Menzies science blocks grants which were handed out in return for DLP votes 10 years ago by a party that was historically and traditionally non-Catholic. These are the facts of the matter. The Karmel Committee report has brought this debate to a head. No concern is shown on the other side of the House for poor Catholic children. The Liberal Party is not a Catholic oriented party. There are hardly any Catholic members of it. One-third of the Parliamentary Labor Party are Catholics. There is a genuine sympathy. Honourable members opposite say that they are concerned about Catholic schools.  Sir Robert  Menzies used the National Civic Council for DLP votes and to keep money flowing to GPS schools. But it has stopped because the Karmel Committee has fixed economic criteria and priorities for schools not on the basis of religion, not on the basis of income but on the basis of need for the child that goes there. After all this must be the proper criterion. I must wind off on this point: This is an economically responsible Budget. It intends to take inflation out of the economy. It wants to keep the economy going and it wants to fix priorities, which it is doing for schools, health, education and other matters. From what I have said about education it can be seen that Australian children will get a better deal this year and so will the Australian people in general. I commend the Budget to the House. 
My question, which is addressed to the Treasurer, relates to private companies and the provisions introduced in the Budget in relation to the increase in income tax bringing the private company up to the level of a public company. I refer him also to his intention to readjust the retention allowance. Does the Treasurer feel that this will drive a lot of people away from the company and into partnerships? Does the Treasurer see any value in accepting the concept of an incorporated partnership where for tax reasons the persons involved would pay the same amount of tax but could have the benefits of incorporation and be recognised by the Federal income tax laws for that purpose? 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. Does he intend to retain the retention allowance and undistributed profits tax provisions for private companies? If so, does the decision to increase primary tax for private companies not discriminate against private shareholders? Does he believe there is value in having uniform tax provisions for both private and public companies? Does he agree that distributions will occur anyway, and that the reason they occur in public companies is not the dominance of shareholders who are usually not banded together at any one share holders' meeting to demand a dividend, but the income requirements of shareholders? In short, does he believe that this provision should be retained in the tax laws? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security and I refer to the 2 per cent drop in the number of general practitioners adhering to the most common fee. Does this 2 per cent lack of adherence genuinely reflect the overall problem of non-adherence within the medical profession and, on the basis of fee for service, does the Minister have any comments on the lack of service given by general practitioners after hours? 
-This motion deserves contempt and the 2 honourable members who have just spoken on behalf of the Opposition deserve contempt. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  who proposed the motion would be the last person able to stand in this House and talk about the state of the Australian mining industry. He was the architect of the chaos which we inherited. If we were removed from office tomorrow our stay would have been worthwhile because the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has re-established and asserted our role as providers of resources to the rest of the world, and he has put our mining industry into reasonable order with a national policy. Let us look at the 2 honourable members who have just spoken. The honourable member for Farrer, who is spoken of by his former Prime Minister as a pedestrian, destroyed his former Prime Minister over the issue of off-shore sovereignty. Because of the background of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  who has just spoken we do not know whether he is here representing OPEC or  Colonel Kadhafi  - but it is one or the other. He is a man also beneath contempt. As a Minister of the Crown he was the laughing stock of the Parliament. It ill behoves this nation to be so badly served in this Parliament by people in the Opposition such as the 2 honourable members who have just spoken. 
Wherever we look in relation to the honourable member for Farrer we see that he has held this Parliament to scorn. He destroyed the graticulator system whereby four-ninths of an area which was to be explored by a private company for oil and gas was to be returned to the Commonwealth. He gave that away for a miserable  li  per cent increase in royalties. He opposed the Submerged Lands Bill which would give this Parliament power over our resources from the low water mark to the edge of the continental shelf. He destroyed his own former Prime Minister in the process. Now he has the hide and temerity to come here and say that we are destroying the extractive industries. Let us look at the record of this man and of the former Government. Let us look at the Bureau of Mineral Resources. The Bureau was created by the Labor Party 20 years ago. The previous Government used it as a whipping horse for private industry. It poured a fortune into the Bureau by way of Commonwealth revenue to have it carry out the geophysical mapping of Australia. The maps were sold for $1 a throw at the Government Printing Office. In any other country such maps would not be available to the public. They would be regarded as a national resource. 
That is the sort of thing which the previous Government did. All it did was make a slave of itself to private industry. We have sorted out the mining industry. We corrected the iron ore pricing bungles which the previous Government created. Every time the Australian dollar was valued upwards or the American dollar was valued downwards our miners lost a fortune. We restored the 18 per cent differential by the actions of the Minister for Minerals and Energy in his negotiations with Japan. (Quorum formed.) 
I point out that the Opposition moved for this discussion to take place as a matter of urgency, yet it does not have enough of its members here to maintain a quorum. That shows how interested they are in this matter. I was referring to iron ore contracts with Japan. We have shown our producers how to negotiate. We have put some gumption back into them, because they know that the national Government is backing them. We have revived the Australian Coal Association. We have restored coal prices to world parity prices. The honourable member for Farrer was prepared to see the Japanese play our Queensland coal producers off against our New South Wales coal producers to see whether they could get a cheaper price. We have cut out all that nonsense. 
We have curbed the inflow of foreign capital which was moving into a depressed stock market after the mining boom which the Opposition members allowed to develop. Foreign companies bought up our assets very cheaply, for next to nothing. This Government has instituted a 25 per cent deposit rule on foreign capital, whereby 25 per cent of capital brought into Australia has to be left interest free with the Reserve Bank of Australia. Fortunately, this has discouraged the movement of this money into our extractive industries. We have established, as the Minister said, a proper and respectable trading relationship with Japan. We go to Japan as willing sellers and the Japanese are willing buyers. As someone pointed out a few moments ago, when the Minister goes to Japan later this year he will go there with the respect of the Japanese Government, not the way members of the former Government used to slink through Tokyo airport and go about recognised as nothing but junior representatives of Australia. That is the difference between the former Government and our Government. 
I want to talk about the mineral industry and the increase in production since we came to office. Overseas control in the aluminium industry is 100 per cent, but the production has moved up. In the last financial year it was worth $131m. Figures for other industries are as follows: Coal $268m; iron ore $454m; lead $88m; and zinc $66m. All those industries have had record productions totalling $ 1,007m in value. Last year we exported $ 1,405m worth of minerals. Yet honourable members opposite talk about the state of the industry. The Minister referred to the tax concessions which the previous Government was giving to all the phonies such as Barton who set up all these little tin-pot companies in the mining boom of 1970. Because they had some sort of a lease, they were getting subscriptions for virtually worthless paper. What are those people doing now? They are not out exploring; they are sitting on a little bundle of $1.5m or $2m which they raised in the mining boom and which to them represents directors' fees for the next 20 years. That is what it is all about. The section 77 concessions were only icing for the cake given by the previous Government to these people, these crooks who were not producing anything. We have chopped that out and we will assist genuine Australian miners. 
The Bureau of Mineral Resources will be looking at each particular proposal and we will genuinely support them. But at the moment there is no need for intensive search in regard to most of the extractive industries. There is record production of bauxite, coal, iron ore, lead and zinc. The honourable member for Kennedy spoke of Mount Isa. Mount Isa Mines Ltd showed a record profit and record production for this year. That company also is sitting on a world ranking deposit at the McArthur River, which it is keeping under wraps. There is no need to talk about exploration in this area. The whole case proposed by the honourable member for Farrer on behalf of the Opposition, and Opposition members, is a sham; it has no worth. The matter of public importance has no value and no merit. This Government has taken the question of minerals and energy seriously. We have established a separate portfolio to deal with it. We are fortunate in having a most competent Minister to handle that area of responsibility. The end result will be that Australia will have a better industry, a managed industry, a fuel policy and a minerals policy. We will be able to go to any part of the world and negotiate world parity prices for our materials. That is all we have been asked to do. 
If honourable members opposite want to find out what the Australian mining industry thinks of this Government they should ask the directors of the Hamersley group and all the rest of them. They are laughing all the way to the bank. Paraburdoo has just been reopened. As the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  - we call him the honourable member for Woodside-Burmah because we are certain he is on a retainer - said, the reopening of Paraburdoo was not the decision of the Government. Paraburdoo was reopened because of the increased prices paid for iron ore. We have re-established this major extractive industry since we have been in office. We have no case to answer. The previous Government when in office consisted of a bunch of bungling incompetents who do not deserve the support of this House. In fact, they are beneath contempt. I urge the House to disregard the motion. 
You are not entitled to have it yet. 
This Bill was rejected here on one occasion. It was then taken across to the Senate where the so called States righters tore it to shreds, and it came back here again. This time the Liberal Party decided that, discretion being the better part of valour, they could not argue against the Bonser v La Macchia decision in the High Court. They could not continue to back the Premiers on their excursions to London - their free trips - on the basis that they do not trust the Australian High Court. They could not go against the views of  Sir Percy  Spender, a former member of the International Court of Justice and a former Minister of this House, that the States never had sovereignty over the offshore waters to the 3-mile limit either as colonies or as States. They could not pursue that sham any further so they decided to let the declaratory sections of the Bill through. They decided to say: 'Yes', we are prepared to vote for the declaratory sections and have the High Court look at it.' 
But when we get around to the mining code all the vested interests come out of the woodwork. The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  whom I call the honourable member for Woodside-Burmah, who must be on a retainer from that company, and all the other honourable members opposite interested in the oil companies see problems about the administration of the code. The fact of the matter is that in 1968 the former Prime Minister, now the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  and the Honourable R. W. Swartz, were prepared to legislate fully, and so was the honourable member for Farrer. I want to read an excerpt from a speech made by the right honourable member for Higgins on 3 March 1970. He said that the then Minister for National Development,  Mr Fairbairn,  wrote: 
As to offshore minerals other than petroleum, the Commonwealth is of the view that it should proceed on the footing that it enjoys total rights outside the 3-mile limit. It proposes to legislate in pursuance of this section. 
That is an excerpt from a letter he wrote to the Austraiian Minerals Council. Honourable members opposite cannot deny it because the right honourable member for Higgins blew their cover. I will quote further. The right honourable member for Higgins told the then Minister: 
Eliminate from any proposed letter any suggestion that the Commonwealth will not legislate unilaterally until after the completion of full and frank discussions with the States on this matter. 
He said 'to hell with the States' and good on him. It should have been 'to hell with the States' a few years ago, but we are still messing around here because of the machinations of the State Liberal Party and that agrarian pressure group, the Country Party. 
This is the second time I have quoted it. 
The facts of the matter are that those phonies opposite are being found out and the only people on that side of the House who have been true blue on the issue are the right honourable member for 
Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and a few other colleagues who have been genuine on the issue from the start, as evidenced by the words spoken a few moments ago by the right honourable member for Higgins. The facts of the matter are that we are determined to see that this Parliament exercises national sovereignty over the off-shore area of Australia. We are not going to be stopped by the likes of honourable members opposite. 
I should like to read some excerpts from a section of a speech prepared by the Minister for National Development in the days of the Gorton Government. It is a speech on a Bill which is now Part III of our Bill; that is the mining code which was then to be called the Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill 1970. It is now Part III of our Bill and it is the part to which the Opposition objects. It is the reason why the Bill has not been passed. I should like just to read a few excerpts from the speech. It starts off in these terms: 
The purpose of this Bill and the associated Royalty Bill is to provide a legislative framework to govern the exploration for and the exploitation of the mineral resources other than petroleum, of submerged lands adjacent to Australia and certain of the Territories of the Commonwealth. This policy was foreshadowed on 16 April 1970 when on behalf of the Acting Minister for External Affairs I introduced the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill 1970. I would remind the House that neither the Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill nor the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill will in any way affect the existing agreement entered into in October 1967 between the Commonwealth and the States concerning off-shore petroleum and the legislation giving effect to that agreement. 
In other words the former Minister was not going to interrupt the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Bill but he was going to have a mining code independent of the States. On page 2 of the speech he states: 
As matters stand the whole question of jurisidiction and ownership in the offshore area is in doubt. The initiative which the Commonwealth is taking in bringing these two related Bills before the House is an essential prerequisite to enabling the issue to be placed before the High Court for decision. A challenge by the States is the second prerequisite. For its part the Commonwealth is not taking this step in a spirit of provocation. We wish to have the legal issues settled clearly and decisively. We wish to know where responsibility rests. 
That was said by the Liberal Party's own Minister 3 years ago. I refer now to page 3 of the speech because it needs to go into Hansard. I know it is a bit tedious but honourable members should listen. It states: 
When Ministers of the Commonwealth and the States met in April 1964 under the chairmanship of the late  Sir William  Spooner it was agreed as far back as 1964 to isolate petroleum, both oil and gas, as the subjects for discussion. It was further agreed by all Ministers that any solution to the petroleum problem would not be taken as a precedent for solving the problem as to other resources on the continental shelf. 
It hurts, does it not? Does it not hurt? 
 Mr Speaker,  can I make a personal explanation? I have had these documents for quite a time and I believe I have used them in other speeches. I was not given it by the Minister for Minerals and Energy; I can assure honourable members of that. I want to read from page 8 of the speech - and this is the kernel of the subject. This was the speech of a Liberal Minister 3 years ago. It states: 
However, at this point we cannot be sure that this co-operation will be forthcoming- . 
This is with the States- or that it will be forthcoming from all the States and hence the Bill has been drafted in such a way as will enable the Commonwealth itself to establish its own administration should, regrettably. State cooperation be withheld. 
Further down in the speech it refers to the minerals code which is identical to what has been introduced by this Government in Part III of the Bill before the House. In the speech of the Minister for Minerals and Energy in March of this year are details similar to the content of this speech. The facts of the matter are that the previous Liberal governments were prepared to introduce a mining code which was called a Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill, to vote upon it and to have it put through this House and through the Senate; but because of interstate rivalry and pressures within the Liberal and Country parties the matter never came to a head. And now their dirty washing is laid out in public. 
We are not prepared to be thwarted anymore. We want to press on with this Bill. It is impertinent of the Opposition to hold up the mining code section of the Bill in this House when this is the third time this Bill has been presented. In fact, if one wants to consider the Gorton Bill also the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill, it is the fourth time this legislation has been brought into this House. Honourable members opposite sit there as national parliamentarians and say that we should not have the power to legislate from low water mark to the edge of the continental shelf. Furthermore, not only are we not supposed to have the power, the Opposition objects to the fact that we want to use it to regulate the operation of oil companies operating off the Australian coast. Honourable members opposite ought to be ashamed of themselves individually and collectively. It is impertinent of them to put up these amendments. We are going to vote against them tonight in the House and I sincerely hope that the Opposition comes to its senses, that the Bill is carried through the Senate and once and for all the Australian Parliament can assert and exercise sovereignty over the offshore. The High Court can then decide the matter once and for all and reach a point of finality. 
But let party politics be put aside. Let the rivalries of honourable members opposite be set aside. Let the Opposition's mates, the people like the friends of the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner),  be put aside because what counts here is the people of Australia, not Woodside Burmah, not a particular company, not interstate rivalries, not inter-party rivalries, but the welfare of the people of Australia. 
On a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker,  you mentioned in the last paragraph of your report that some words were accepted by the Hansard office and some were not. The implication was that the meaning was changed. There was no change of meaning; there was only a change in the grammar. But the Leader of the Opposition should have had the courtesy to tell me that he was coming into the House with the greens. I believe that the present Prime Minister and former Leader of the Opposition never adopted this practice in his life. 
It seems that whenever the Opposition is in trouble it brings the old word-smith into the House. The only thing that I would like the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  to do some day is to change his cassette. We are becoming a little tired of listening to the same old stuff coming from him every time he is put into the breach. The whole fact of the matter under debate at the moment is that we are seeking an extension of the Commonwealth's power. That is the issue. The issue concerns not prices and incomes but whether this Parliament should have power to exercise with respect to incomes. 
Some mention has been made of constitutional inadequacies. Australia is a federation similar to West Germany, the United States of America and other countries where the governments of those countries have complete power over the national economy. The Government of a country like Australia should have had these powers many years ago. Instead of that, we have been fooled around by the tomfoolery of the Opposition which is caught in a political cleft stick. Honourable members opposite talk about a prices-incomes policy but, when it comes to the jump, they baulk at it. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  asked only last week: 'Has there ever been such a vacuum in responsibility?' He said that the Government was seeking power over prices when really it knew that the problem would be resolved only by combined action on prices and incomes. Here is the great opportunity for the Opposition to support action in this direction; but it is prepared to squib it. 
It is no news to the Opposition that this matter was to arise. The Opposition knew about it yesterday. I remind the Opposition that yesterday the Constitution Alteration (Prices) Bill passed its second reading stage in the Senate and at the moment is in its Committee stage in the other place. I would say that good sense on the part of any government would be to try to have prices and incomes referenda put to the people at the one time. If this legislation now proposed is to be deferred, the result would be that the referendum on each matter would need to be held on 2 separate occasions before Christmas. What we seek to do is to synchronise the referenda on the 2 matters. The Senate must go through certain constitutional requirements with respect to legislation proposing referenda. With those factors in view, we felt the urgency to bring this legislation before the House. 
This legislation is designed to give the people a choice. What the Liberals and the Australian Country Party are proposing to do is to deny the people the right to a choice. We are not offering the people legislation. We are offering them legislation for a choice. Yet, we have heard all of the claims about the Parramatta by-election result and what the Liberals would do about inflation and about rising prices. Here is their opportunity. What have they done? The only thing that the Liberals have done about inflation is to give Australia a 13 per cent level of inflation. 1 take the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to task on that very point. He mentioned that the level of inflation that Australia is currently experiencing is the responsibility of our Government which took office on 2 December last. He does not mention the scare Budget of last year when the pool of unemployed in Australia stood at 120,000 persons. The former Government needed to eradicate that unemployment. It spent money as if it was going out of business. That money was allocated and appropriated in August of last year, was spent in January and February of this year and generated its way through the economy in about March and April with the result of a level of 13 per cent- 
I am prepared to do that. I was just answering some of the matters raised by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. The fact of the matter is that we see an opportunity io bring to the Austraiian people a right to make the choice whether this Parliament should be given power over prices and incomes and to extend our constitutional power to govern the national economy. Who can argue that in a country like Australia with its enormous development the Australian Parliament should not have adequate constitutional power over the national economy? That means power over incomes, over prices and over other economic factors. I believe the Standing Orders ought to be suspended and the Opposition's arguments just cast aside. 
I did not intend to speak in this debate but, as the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  has made a number of statements with his tongue in his cheek, I feel obliged to point out a couple of facts to the House. Basically, what the honourable member spoke about was the strategy of the Budget in its totality. He did not relate his speech specifically to the excise Bills now before us but rather used them as an avenue to attack once again the Government's Budget. 
That is right, but the honourable member did not confine himself to them. That is what the Bills are all about. I take the honourable member to task on a couple of matters. I will deal first with the overall Budget strategy. As the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said, fiscally the Budget was a very responsible one. Outlays were increased by 18.9 per cent but receipts increased by almost 20.6 per cent. The Budget did not do anything to worsen the inflationary situation, as the honourable member claimed; in fact, it will help it. Normally, receipts would have been expected to increase by $l,621m. The Government had to increase its expenditure by $223m to meet the program which the Budget encompasses. With total receipts of $ 1,960m, we had to find a deficit of $223m. 
Undertakings had been given to the electorate in December last that we felt obliged to honour. One of those undertakings was that any additional revenue that we needed to collect would not be collected by increases in personal taxation. As the honourable member would be aware, at the moment the Asprey Committee is investigating income tax in Australia. Before this Government would propose any changes in or additional collections by way of personal income tax, we would look to see the report that that Committee brings down. In line with our undertaking that personal taxation would not be increased and realising that the Asprey Committee was still considering its reference, the Government decided to honour its obligations to the electorate. 
What the honourable member did not mention is what this Budget does in terms of the re-allocation of resources. Let me refresh his memory on certain aspects. 'I direct his attention to statement 1 at page 3 of the Budget documents which sets out a summary of Government expenditure. The amount appropriated for education has been increased this financial year to $843m from the amount appropriated last financial year of $439m. This is an increase of 92 per cent. I ask the honourable member to comprehend the magnitude of that increase of 92 per cent. It is different if an allocation is doubled from $10m to S20m. The doubling of an allocation from $43 9m one financial year to $843m the next financial year is something most worthwhile for any Government to undertake. The honourable member has spoken about increases in excise and how those increases will affect the family man. How does he think an extra $400m for education will affect the family man and his capacity to provide a decent education for his children. The honourable member did not mention that. 
I turn next to health where expenditure has been increased from $783m last year to $979m this year - an increase of 25 per cent. In the terms of any Budget that is quite a considerable increase. I go further down the table. Last year for housing and community ameni ties $127m was provided. This year the appropriation is $53 8m. This is a staggering increase of 324 per cent in that socially desirable area. The increase in expenditure in culture and recreation, again a most desirable area, is 39.8 per cent, rising from $117m to $163m. When speaking about how certain action affects the family man, the honourable member must consider the totality of the situation and return to weigh the priorities. The priorities must be weighed on a political basis. To the Labor Party, these are much more socially desirable priorities. 
If one reaches the conclusion that this money needs to be allocated to see that education and these other areas of activity are better catered for, one must look at the ambient economic situation. If we accept the fact that the last Budget introduced by the Liberals was an election Budget designed to eradicate a pool of unemployment of 130,000 persons and also to save their sagging electoral stocks, and if we realise also that the excess money which was proposed for expenditure in that Budget finally trickled into our economy in March and April of this year causing an inflation level of 13 per cent, we understand that we cannot afford to put very much more money into the economy directly in the succeeding Budget. Receipts must be increased to match outlays. That is what this Government did. 
We asked: Where can we increase our receipts? Can we do this by personal taxation? The answer is no because we have given undertakings to the electorate; we cannot do this by increasing personal taxation. So we looked at other ways. As a result of the report of the Coombs committee which brought the matter to a head, we have cut out some of the tax lurks and dodges introduced by previous Liberal administrations. We looked at other areas. We came to the question of excise on fuel- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I remind the honourable member for Blaxland that in his explanation he has covered the need for an increase in finance to meet certain requirements. I suggest that he has spent sufficient time on what actually is inclined to be more a general debate on the Budget than on the subject matter of the diesel fuel tax Bills before the House. 
I accept that. My only misgiving is that you were not in the chair when the previous  speaker  addressed the House; he might have been confined in his remarks as I am to be. 
I rise to support the Bill. The first point I want to make is that my speech, unlike the one delivered by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  will not be read. I suspect that the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was drafted somewhat by the merchant bankers of Melbourne. Mine will be a speech delivered by a member of the Australian Labor Party in support of legislation that was approved by the Australian people at the time of the last election. We have heard much whingeing from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition about the attempts by the Labor Party to socialise the economy. In my view his was a treacherous speech in terms of the national economy of Australia. The original Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill introduced a couple of years ago by a government of which he was a member would in normal circumstances have gone a long way towards being comparable with this Bill in its content. But the founding father of the Corporation, the Right Honourable  Sir John  McEwen, the then Leader of the Australian Country Party, was constrained by the big business interests associated with the Liberal Party as to the content of the Bill, and it was passed in the emasculated form in which it stands today. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition talks about the right of all enterprise to raise funds freely. No constraint will be placed on the way in which funds may be raised. Admittedly the Australian Industry Development Corporation will be in the ring competing with others, but what is wrong with that? Did we hear any mention from Country Party or Liberal Party supporters that private enterprise raised large slabs of money on the Australian capital market for the Esso-BHP investment or the other investments on the north-west continental shelf? Not a word was said about this. There was no talk by honourable members opposite about foreign companies raising money locally in competition with Australian enterprise. But when a Government institution wants to do this they say that we are socialising the national economy. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition talked also about tax concessions and subsidies. Let us consider the volume of money that went into exploration in the mining industry. A total of S800m has been spent on this activity in the last 20 years, and $400m of this was returned to the exploration companies by way of taxation concessions and subsidies. Yet this nation got not one per cent of equity from that S400m. We have had enough of this talk from the Opposition about the availability of tax concessions and subsidies. They were lurks for the Opposition's big business friends, but that sort of thing is over and they are a thing of the past. 
I would like to get on to the detail of the Bill. In our election policy speech we said that we would expand the functions of the AIDC to enable it to join with Australian and foreign companies in the exploration, development and processing of Australian resources. The Corporation would be given power to initiate investment activities itself and would no longer have to wait for an approach from companies and then have to divest itself of shareholdings that it acquires for the companies it assists in their enterprises. We also said that the Corporation would be able to raise money locally and would no longer have to borrow principally from overseas. The constraints that were placed upon the AIDC, as it existed before the introduction of this legislation, are best explained by the second reading speech of the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  I will just read briefly from that speech because I could not put the position into better words. The Minister said: 
Moreover, AIDC has had to operate under restrictions which limited it to Investing at the invitation of the company concerned, and to temporary, minority holdings. It could not, for example, act itself as the Australian partner in a joint venture with foreign companies. It has had to decline requests for it to act in this way when other Australian partners could not be found. AIDC has had to decline offers to purchase substantial holdings, including SO pet cent holdings, in companies in' Australia at present 100 per cent foreign owned, 
And that is nothing short of scandalous. The speech continues: 
Under its charter it could only acquire shares when providing finance for a development or in investing its limited capital funds. And, when it did take shares in a development enterprise it had to try to sell them as soon as it could. One cannot help feeling that these limitations upon AIDC were the result of pressures by business interests which objected to the competition of AIDC and similarly now much of the opposition to an enlarged and expanded AIDC is derived from those whose interests are served by leaving the field alone to the financial giants who increasingly dominate the capitalist world. But it is not In the interests of the Australian people that we should do nothing or limit our own powers in trying to hold our own a little more effectively. 
That is to say, we want to hold our own a little more effectively against the interests of big business. That quotation demonstrates the limitations and restraints which were placed upon AIDC by the Liberals when the Bill was introduced a couple of years ago. We are seeking to remove those constraints. This Bill does not introduce a colossus. The new Cor poration is limited basically by the support which the Australian community is prepared to give it financially. It has 4 new sections. They include the National Investment Fund, a national interest division, a National Interest Committee and also a supervisory council which will supervise the National Investment Fund. They are the additional sections which the Bill provides. The basic organisation of the AIDC and the Board are retained. There is no increase in or lessening of the powers of the Board or the people who sit upon it, barring a few additions to it. AIDC was set up by the previous Government in the days of Prime Minister Gorton for what he called 'a great national need to strengthen Australia's enterprise*. Consistent with that aim we are introducing this amending Bill. 
This Bill gives AIDC power to ask people to support it with their savings. It never had that power before. The scope of the AIDC organisation is therefore widened under this Bill by the provision to allow for the acquisition of funds on the domestic capital market of Australia. The function of the Corporation is also widened in the extent to which it can participate in Australian industry and in Australian development. The word 'development' will now mean much more than it did under the original Bill and as was intended by the previous Government. Development will now mean the ownership of Australian enterprises, large scale consortia, major development projects, buy-back operations and mineral and oil exploration. For instance, we could find AIDC entering into the processing operation of raw material that may be exported to our major trading partners like Japan. That country has energy problems and it has pollution problems. It now suits Japan to have a lot of the processing done in Australia. 
AIDC will now be able to invest in that sort of project where previously it would have had to wait for an invitation from perhaps some multi-national corporation. That was a ludicrous position for it to be in. As I said, the Board of the Corporation is unchanged. The autonomy is just the same as before. The decisions of the Board are based on the commercial prospects of each venture which is proposed to it. Therefore it will not. be in a position to be influenced by the Government or the Minister in the normal course of its business. The provisions of the Bill are so worded that the Board does retain that autonomy. A specific change in the Bill is the establishment of the National Interest Committee. That Committee will advise the Minister on projects which could be deemed to be in the national interest. Those projects will be funded by the National Investment Fund. 
One would believe that the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  thought that he had a policy in the days of the last Government. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  did not inherit even a shambles because there was no shambles to inherit. There was nothing. There was no policy. We had to start from the beginning to develop a resources policy. The honourable member for Farrer might not realise it but in the last days of his Government oil search in Australia was at its lowest ebb since the middle 1960s. He might also not have heard that there is an energy crisis in the world, that  President  Nixon this week has put an embargo on the use of heating oil in the United States of America, that the war in the Middle East is threatening oil supplies for Europe and that we are in the hands of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, King Faisal and  Colonel Kadhafi.  It has not dawned on him yet. 
If the Australian people fall for the policies of the Liberals they will have no fuel in their cars and no heating in their houses within the next 5 years. Those are the facts. So this Government feels obliged to step up seismic search in Australia in a useful way and at the same time to develop a complete resources policy. I think it is an affront to the Parliament that the honourable member for Farrer should be getting up and talking about how we should develop a policy when he was the principal opponent of giving this Parliament power over the offshore of Australia, prepared to destroy his own Prime Minister and prepared to allow these matters to be taken to the Privy Council in London for decision and to see the High Court's nose rubbed in the dirt. That is the position of the honourable member for Farrer, who is at the table and was telling us that we had the wrong policy. 
Not only did the honourable member for Farrer do that, but he also destroyed the graticular system whereby fourninths of an area, after exploration, would have reverted to the Commonwealth. He gave that system away for a miserable 10 per cent increase in royalties on possible production. This is the policy with which we are dealing. 
Australian oil has a very light gravity and after cracking only about 5 per cent to 10 per cent of residuals are left, whereas, with Middle East oils there is about 25 per cent left. In that 5 per cent or 10 per cent is every fuel commodity other than petrol. So for heating oil, furnace fuel and lubricants we are in the hands of the suppliers of heavy crude oil, and that is the Middle East. We are trying to see that our other alternative sources of heating energy - natural gas - is at least conserved to the point where we have adequate domestic reserves. It is shameful that the former Minister, who has just spoken, and his successor, went cap in hand to Woodside-Burmah asking it please to supply details of electric logs and core samples which it was obliged to give to the Bureau of Mineral Resources under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act, and which it failed to give for 3 years. It was not until the present Minister for Minerals and Energy assumed office that he obliged the companies to supply the Commonwealth with that material so that at least we could make some intelligent assessment of the state of our reserves. Some of those electric logs were 3 years old. The former Government completely neglected its obligations under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act to govern this area of exploration in Australia. 
I should like to deal for a moment with another aspect of the Woodside-Burmah question. The former Minister said that the holding is not owned completely by WoodsideBurmah. These are the facts of the matter: Woodside-Burmah Oil has 50 per cent of it, the Shell Company of Holland has 16) per cent of it - a huge multi-national company - British Petroleum has 16) per cent and the California Asiatic Oil Co has 16) per cent of it. In that enormous area of 140,000 square miles, one of the richest gas deposits in the world, there is 15 per cent Australian equity. Yet the honourable member for Farrer is talking about the national interest. The Minister for Minerals and Energy has said all along that the Commonwealth would acquire this gas through the Pipeline Authority. Honourable members recall that when the Pipeline Authority Bill was before the House the Opposition objected to it. It used its numbers in the Senate to defeat the Bill. The Bill was returned to this House and there was a big debate over whether the Authority ought to be just a common carrier or should have acquisition powers. When the acquisition clauses of the Bill were debated the honourable member for Farrer knew then that it was the intention of the Government that the Pipeline Authority should acquire gas at the well head. But he used the Woodside-Burmah statement to fan the fires for the people who send money to his own slush funds. 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  gave details of the WoodsideBurmah statement to the Melbourne newspapers the day before the report was released. 
Wait till I am finished speaking. Sit down. 

 Mb Anthony  - I will take the matter before the Privileges Committee if the honourable member makes statements like that. 
The Opposition is proposing the deletion of the essential part of this Bill. At the last election the Australian Labor Party proposed to the people an extension of the role of the Australian Industry Development Corporation, a corporation set up by a Liberal government, but, of course, started at the behest of  Sir John  McEwen. In its original form the Corporation was limited. It was financed with a government appropriation of SI 00m of which to date about $53m only has been spent. The Labor Party secured a mandate from the people to design legislation to attract and marshal the credit of the small investors throughout the length and breadth of Australia to give them some stake in the national growth of Australia and in its vast mineral and energy deposits and also its vast secondary industries. As the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said a few moments ago, it is near impossible to buy back the farm which, in minerals and energy, is so overwhelmingly controlled by foreign capital both in equity and in voting power on boards. It would need far in excess of an appropriation that the Parliament could provide to AIDC by way of capital to achieve a buy-back operation. The only way that this sort of capital can be raised is by the subscriptions of the Australian people, by companies, by life offices and by pension schemes. The Bill has designed in it a National Investment Fund but the Opposition's amendments are designed to destroy that concept. The Government cannot accept the amendments because they are contrary to the spirit of the Bill. 
We have heard much talk about life assurance offices. I do not think any supporter of the Government would quibble about the role of life assurance offices, but I do not think there is any great thing to be said for growth for growth's sake in life offices. They have grown quickly in the last few years. The investment decisions of the life offices have, in many ways, run against the interests of the national economy, particularly when one has regard to the areas into which money has been channelled. As the Minister has said, a lot of money has been spent on high rise office buildings in the capital cities. Money has gone into investments which have shown a good rate of return for the life office funds but not good in terms of the priorities that should be fixed in the national interest. The  chairman  of perhaps Australia's largest assurance company told me that the Liberal government of the day refused to allow his company to invest in the Hamersley deal in Western Australia when it was being put together in the late 1950s or early 1960s. Such money should have gone into that area but did not. The Government is trying to marshal the people's money into those areas. 
All that we are suggesting in this Bill is that the National Investment Fund be given the same type of assistance and be recognised as the same sort of organisation as life offices. The Government will allow a tax deduction up the level of $1,200 for money subscribed to the fund in the same way as it allows it for insurance payments. The Government is offering investment bonds which can be taken up by the public. The Government intends to add $10 to the value of every $100 invested in such bonds. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  asked why the Gov ernment should complement the $100 with a $10 subscription. Basically the answer is that the National Investment Fund money will be used by the Australian Industry Development Corporation in a number of areas which are in the national interest but which may not produce a high return on investment. It would be fair to assume that in those circumstances the bonds would have a low yield. The Government felt obliged to boost the buoyancy of such a bond by adding a 10 per cent supplement to it. When the bond is sold the supplement remains with the Commonwealth. The fact that the money would not be invested in a high growth area indicates that the Government should at least assist in making the bonds attractive to the public. 
 If there is any apprehension I do not see why there should be. If the public can get a 10 per cent complement for every $100 invested I cannot see why they should be apprehensive. The previous Government gave the life assurance offices more than a good run. The endowment policies were in fact used in 2 ways: Firstly, to build up the life offices; and secondly, to operate as a taxation concession - and it was a very generous taxation concession. Someone could take out an endowment policy with a maturity date in 5 years time and find that he was able to deduct $1,200 from his taxable income each year and then receive an increment on the value of the policy at the end of the 5 years. So he saved taxation for 5 years and received an increment as well. That sold a lot of insurance. It also cost the Commonwealth Treasury a fortune. We have stopped that. We are prepared to continue the $1,200 taxation deduction to assist life offices with genuine life assurance and endowment policies extending over a reasonable period. All the funds that went into short endowment policies naturally assisted life offices too much. All we are saying is: Let us have the same assistance in principle for the National Investment Fund, not as extravagant perhaps as that given in relation to an endowment policy, but certainly assistance to the point where this Fund has a real opportunity to attract money. 
The Oppositition will move a subsequent amendment to limit the capital of the Fund to $500m. It says that the reason for this is that if the Fund is able to attract unlimited funds it will upset the capital market so drastically in Australia and that it will affect the amount of money going into housing. People investing in building societies would do so for reasons different from those of people investing in this Fund. People invest in blue chip stocks and blue chip organisations for reasons of security and return - modest return with reasonable security. I think that is the reason they would invest in the National Investment Fund. But if they invest in a building society and get  li  or 8 per cent at call, it is a different prospect altogether. There are 2 different types of investors in that case. It is not a matter of robbing one to feed the other. What the legislation is doing, of course, is limiting the capacity of multi-national corporations to raise money on the Australian capital market. 
Frankly, I never heard any words uttered by the Opposition when in government particularly by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  the 2 speakers who have spoken on behalf of the Opposition, about the raising of capital in Australia by multinational corporations. We have seen a lot of them go to the investing public of Australia for $30m or $40m, not to be invested by Australians in an Australian company to give Australians equity but being raised by a foreign company, and Australians being paid 8 to 10 per cent for it, which has then taken up equity in an Australian enterprise. That has been the way that a lot of capital has been used in Australia. We want to chop that out. .We do not think it is a good thing. We think that the Government should assist in marshalling funds to be invested for the benefit of all people in national development projects. This is what the National Investment Fund is designed to do. It is the vehicle by which the expanded AIDC can achieve this aim, and the Opposition's amendments would only destroy the concept of it. They do not deserve support and I commend the original Bill to the Parliament. 
We have just heard from the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  a typical whingeing, moaning Country Party speech. All that Country Party members are interested in is getting their hands in the public purse and on the public's money - scurrying like rats in the larder. That is what their opposition to this measure is really all about. The honourable member for Cowper referred to the wheat industry. He is a Pitt Street farmer and has never grown wheat in his life. At least I can claim to have grown acreages of up to 2,000 acres on a number of occasions so perhaps I am a more genuine wheat farmer than any member of the Country Party. The honourable member for Cowper did not mention that his Party introduced quotas into the wheat industry. He did not mention that  Mr Anthony,  the Leader of the Country Party, jeopardised Australia's wheat contracts with China and lost them. He did not recognise that our Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has just negotiated $600m worth of wheat contracts with the People's Republic of China. The Country Party has done nothing for the wheat industry. 
The object of the Industries Assistance Commission Bill is to extend the amount of public inquiry into the process of government assistance to industry. It was a plank in the Australian Labor Party's plaform at the 1972 election. To this extent we are coming to the Parliament with a measure which, was approved by the people. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  asked  Sir John  Crawford, a prominent public servant, to inquire into this matter and to report to Parliament. This request was made in March of this year and the report was brought down in June. That inquiry was entitled 'A Commission to Advise on Assistance to Industries'. On the basis of that report the present Bill has been constructed. As I said earlier, the whole emphasis is to extend public inquiry. This new Industries Assistance Commission will operate in a similar fashion to the present Tariff Board which was set up in 1921 but it will extend the process of government inquiry on an impartial and an independent basis into other than secondary industry, for which the Tariff Board provides at the moment. It will extend the inquiry into primary industry and tertiary industries. The aim is to develop a rational and consistent approach to all industries regardless of their place in the Australian economy. What we inherited from the last Liberal-Country Party coalition Government was a mismash of inconsistencies and a discriminatory attitude in its policy-making machinery for assistance to industry. It caused discrimination between the primary and secondary areas of Australia. We believe that this is a bad thing and that all industries should be treated on the one basis and be treated fairly. There has been no effective inquiry into the basis on which assistance was given by past Liberal and Country Party governments. 
I am talking about primary industry. This Bill overcomes that problem. There has been a lot of talk by the Leader of the Country Party and others about what they call the mandatory provisions in this Bill which require any government to have the Commission report on any proposed assistance to an industry before the Government can act upon it. With much bleating the Liberal and Country Party members say that the Commission will usurp the role of government. That, frankly, is not true, because the Government must finally make a decision. What will happen, of course, will be that the Commission will bring down a recommendation to the Government but finally a political decision will be made by the Government as to whether it should accept the Commission's findings and recommendation.  Mr Anthony  said that the Government would be merely a rubber stamp for the Commission's reports. He said there would be a reduction in ministerial authority because Ministers would not be consulted. He said that the Government would be bound to accept the advice of the Commission. He said that the Government could not say that a report was bad and would not accept it. The fact is that there is and will be consultation with industry groups. There will be consultation with departments which will be able to put a view to their Ministers. Their Ministers, of course, sit in the Cabinet and that Cabinet and the Government will make a decision on any report from the Commission. At the same time the Commission will speak to industry personnel and organisations involved in a particular inquiry. There will be the broadest possible range of consultation. A decision will relate not only to what the Commission can do but also to what the Government is prepared to recommend when a report is presented. It is not a matter of the Government having to make a decision. The Government will be able to make any decision it chooses to make in the best interests of the national economy and of the people in general. 
Of course there is not unanimity of opinion on the Opposition benches on this measure. Members of the Liberal Party support it. The Country Party, for obvious reasons, is opposing it. Perhaps it is appropriate to consider the Country Party's position. I think it is fair to say that the Country Party is not interested in getting good public advice on these matters. Its bargaining power would be much reduced in the face of cohesive and comprehensive reports upon some industry matters. It is worth while to reflect upon an article by  Mr Maximilian  Walsh, one of the foremost political and economic journalists in the Press Gallery in Canberra, in the 'Australian Financial 
Review' of last Friday. In talking about the Country Party's attitude to this Bill he wrote: 
It runs what might be called a political protection racket; assiduously looking after those who support it without a great deal of soul searching about philosophical conditions. 
It has a reputation for delivering the goods. 
This in fact is one of the oldest and least sophisticated forms of political organisation. 
Later in his article he wrote: 
For a political party which operates quite openly along the lines of the Country Party of using its corner position within the coalition to extract concessions for its supporters, such a proposition is indeed a threat. 
As  Mr Anthony  said: 'This legislation means that it will be quite pointless for industry to put its views directly to the Government, to Ministers, or to Government departments.' 
If you take the view that the Country Party style of politics, of using political muscle for a narrow band of special interests, is counterproductive to the cause of optimising resource allocation and maximising economic growth consistent with economic welfare, this new institution might offer an attractive alternative. 
Obviously the Liberal Party thinks it does. That is his view of the Country's Party's attitude vis-a-vis the Liberal Party attitude to the Industries Assistance Commission Bill. 
It is not only his attitude; it is the attitude of two-thirds of the members of this House. The Country Party and some members of the Liberal Party have suggested that no longer will industry be able to talk to this Commission - that it will be just a bureaucratic set-up, as they say in the usual jargon that they speak, socialising industry. In fact the Australian Industries Development Association, one of the best lobbying organisations in Canberra which has had reasonably cordial relations with the Country Party in the past, and the Australian Farmers Association and associated groups, according to the report of  Sir John  Crawford recommended that: 
questions of Government assistance to any industry - rural, mining, fishing, manufacturing or tertiary - should be referred to the commission. 
They also recommended that the Commission, in its investigations, be required to take note of the broad sweep of the attitudes of these organisations and also of the Government. These are 2 industry groups with which the Country Party would have had the closest of association yet these industry groupings have no special objection to this legislation but, in fact, support the proposals contained in it probably for the reason that they are sick and tired of being squeezed by the likes of the Leader of the Country Party and his predecessors in the past. Let us face it, the only reason why the Country Party has been able to prosecute elections as well as it has done in the past is because of the financial assistance it has been able to extract from those industry groupings that require government assistance. 
The circumstances under which the Government will be required to seek advice from the Commission will be many and varied. In the sense that emergency matters may come before the Government, the Government will not be precluded from initiating inquiries even though, in the long term, it will be obliged to have the Commission make recommendations. For instance, the type of decision made for general economic reasons a couple of months ago to cut tariffs by 25 per cent can still be taken. It does not need to go before the Commission. In the field of international trade negotiations, should we wish to favour a developing country with tariff preference without awaiting advice we can do so. As far as temporary protection is concerned, we can ask for a report from the IAC or from the Special Advisory Authority which will be incorporated in the IAC. 
On the question of temporary protection, it is generally agreed that there should be special procedures for dealing with requests for temporary assistance because of the need for prompt action, and the fact that inquiries by the IAC would normally be lengthy. The question therefore arises whether the IAC or some other independent authority, such as the present Special Advisory Authority, should provide advice on temporary assistance.  Sir John  Crawford indicated in his report to the Prime Minister that in his opinion the IAC would be the appropriate authority to provide advice on temporary protection. In support of his opinion he advanced 2 compelling arguments. 

 Sir John's first argument is that if the IAC was responsible for temporary protection the scope for inconsistencies in the treatment of individual industries would be minimized. This argument finds support in the lack of consistency between temporary protection decisions of the existing Special Advisory Authority and the subsequent decisions of the Tariff Board. Of course the Liberals are opposed to the Special Advisory Authority being incorporated in the IAC. The Liberal 
Party believes that the Authority should be left aside on its own. In the majority of cases the Special Advisory Authority has set rates of duty in excess of the rates of duty subsequently recommended by the Tariff Board. The problem of consistency of approach is compounded by the fact that industries most likely to apply for temporary protection are highly protected relative to Australian industry in general. 

 Sir John's second argument is that the current undesirable practice of certain industries exploiting the temporary protection provisions as an effective device for avoiding the long term rates of duty recommended by the Tariff Board - that is, using the SAA as a court of appeal from the decisions of the Tariff Board - would be eliminated if the IAC was responsible for temporary protection. The most notorious case of this kind of practice is the ICI subsidiary Fibremakers Ltd which, since commencing the manufacture of polyester yarns in 1965, has managed to have temporary duties operative from June 1967 to April 1970, from September 1970 to November 1971 and since April 1972. To sum up, the 2 main advantages of giving the IAC responsibility for advice on temporary protection are that it would ensure consistency in tariff making and would preserve the autonomy of the IAC and the tariff-making machinery. What has happened in the past is that the ruse of temporary protection has been iff fact a permanent protection because of frequency of applications. 
The measure is a good measure. It comes to the Parliament with the support of the people of Australia on the basis that it was one of the planks of the Australian Labor Party at the last election. It is supported by the Liberal Party, which is the major partner in the Opposition coalition, lt is opposed by the Country Party. I submit that it is opposed for the reason I have mentioned, that the Country Party has a special interest. The agrarian rump, the pressure group, has used its position through the portfolio administering secondary industry, in the days of  Sir John  McEwen and when  Sir Alan  Westerman was in charge of that department, and through departments like Shipping and Transport and Primary Industry which it insisted upon holding when it has been with its partner, the Liberal Party, in a coalition government, lt is through these departments that the Country Party has been able to discriminate for one industry against another in Australia, discriminating in favour of primary industry against secondary industry and in some cases against others. Where the Country Party has received financial assistance it has discriminated in favour of smaller secondary industries. 
In fact this Government is now looking at the question of small business to give Australian manufacturers in the secondary area, who are employing 5 to 15 people, a genuine chance to improve their Jot in this country. That was never the case under the Country Party and Liberal Party stewardship of this area. Of course, the Industries Assistance Commission does away with that situation. Any matter that requires a decision by the Government will be referred to the Commission for a report and there will be continuous reports on industries. That depth of public inquiry is what is needed for the Parliament to allocate funds on a fair and equitable basis. That has not been the case in the past. It is true that we have had a Tariff Board since 1921 and it is true that references to the Tariff Board are made on various matters but the existing structure of the Tariff Board cannot of its own volition inquire into an industry.  J*  needs to be supplied with a reference. I tnink it is pretty fair to say that most references that have come from the Country Party in the past or from the former government in this area managed by the Country Party have in a very large measure been loaded references. 
The terms of reference by which the Tariff Board has been obliged to inquire have limited the scope of the inquiries and the real benefit of the recommendations to the Parliament. To that extent the Industries Assistance Commission will be a much fairer body and also the primary industry subsidies and handouts that have been given by the Country Party in the past will come under public scrutiny. They are subject to an Act of Parliament and are in the present and past circumstances completely legal decisions of an Australian Government; nevertheless they are motivated for reasons of political self-survival. That is not the motivation that ought to be the basis of financial commitments from this national Parliament to any industry in Australia. There will be now no discrimination from one industry to another, there will be complete reports on industries and the Government can choose either to accept the recommendations from the Commission or to reject them. The Government can take advice from its departments, its Ministers, industry groupings and from specialist people who have no particular axe to grind. The Government can take that advice, measure it up against the recommendations of the Commission, make a decision and have the Parliament, of course, ratify it. It is a proper way of seeing that preference to industries and assistance to industries is intelligently and honestly allocated. It is long overdue. 
A primary industry assistance commission was proposed many years ago and rejected by the former government. Of course, this proposal encompasses all industries as I have indicated. It is worth the support of all of the Parliament. I believe it is getting the support of the Government and the Liberal Party with a few amendments. It is being opposed by the Country Party. That is what we have come to expect with reasonable national legislation where it affects the position of the Country Party in coalition and affects its position to negotiate and to secure concessions from those people it has been able to help in the past. I support the legislation and commend the Bill to the House. 
I will not delay the House. I will speak for only a moment. I just wish to take the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  to task on one point. He referred to the Coombs Committee report and said that it would be impossible for the Government to buck such reports. Only an infinitesimal number of the recommendations in that report were accepted. The other things were left aside. That illustrates the lack of understanding which the Leader of the Country Party has of this proposal. This proposal is aimed at having complete scrutiny over all assistance to industry in Australia, regardless of whether it is rural or secondary industry. The Country Party is afraid of the fact that there will be scrutiny over the handouts that it has made in the past. 
The position of the Country Party members on the corner benches of this Parliament will be weakened because they will not be able to act as the tail wagging the dog, the Liberal Party, and to put up recommendations contrary to the best interests and the economic interests of the country. That is what is at issue, not the bureaucratic set-up. What members of the 
Country Party are saying is that the Government should not receive good advice on a broad range of criteria. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was sepaking in the Committee stage on the Industries Assistance Commission Bill. I was referring to the suggestion of the Leader of the Australian Country Party that this Commission denies to the Parliament the right to decision making that it had in the past. I was making the point that the reason for that suggestion - this is fundamentally the objection of the Country Party - is that the establishment of this Commission will rob that Party of its strength in its corner position of the Opposition Parties. When the LiberalCountry Party coalition was in government the Country Party was able to wag the tail of the Government dog, but that position will not be open to the Country Party if this Commission is to inquire into and report upon a range of industry matters, not limited to secondary industry only as was the Tariff Board but including also primary industry matters. 
The Leader of the Country Party is opposed to any concept which allows public scrutiny and public assessment of funding from the Commonwealth to specific industries, particulraly primary industries. He is trying to preserve that right and to preserve his strength within the coalition by implying that this Commission is a bureaucracy being lumped on the people and that all the economic decision making will be in the hands of the Commission. In fact, the guidelines to which' he is objecting are designed to provide the Commission with a formal reminder that it is, in itself, part of a general apparatus of economic management and that its decisions cannot be taken out of context with general economic considerations. It does not have responsibility for those economic considerations, it must only take account of them. That is the fundamental flaw in the argument of the Leader of the Country Party. He is saying that it is a bureaucracy which in fact will determine the economic policy of the Government. That is not a fact. 
The Commission will be a machine set up to assess assistance to industry on the basis of commercial and economic criteria and its recommendations will be presented to the Parliament. The Government can act on those recommendations by agreeing to them, amending them or rejecting them. It may take advice from a whole range of industry people, industry groupings, from its own departments and from its own Ministers, and weigh that advice against the advice of the Commission. There is no basis in the Country Party's objection to this organisation. Its objection fundamentally is that the setting up of this body will weaken the Country Party's bargaining strength and the strength it derives from the fact that industries come to it seeking subsidies and have subsidies delivered to them. There was no adequate public scrutiny of the decision making processes to determine primary industry subsidies and other subsidies under the stewardship of the Country Party when it was in Government. 
The Country Party is the only Party objecting to this Commission. The Liberal Party of Australia supports it, admittedly with amendments, but it supports it in principle. I believe that the Parliament should take no heed of the false and mock indignation of the Leader of the Country Party who insists that this is another extension of what he calls, in the jargonistic terms that he used, a socialist enterprise and another galloping bureaucracy. The Country Party is famous, as the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  said on one occasion, for capitalising its profits and socialising its losses. It never worries about government initiative or government interest in commercial activity when the government is subsidising losses or subsidising the people who support the Country Party. The only time it ever complains about government initiative in industry is, of course, when it is in terms of the holding back of some of the largesse that goes from this Parliament to a lot of different industries throughout Australia. The Government is supporting the setting up of this Australian Industries Assistance Commission. It flows from the report on the establisihment of an Australian Industries Assistance Commission which  Sir John  Crawford was commissioned by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to make in March. This Bill is constructed from that report. It is to see that adequate assistance goes to all industries in Australia and that there is not discrimination between the primary and secondary area or indeed between the small secondary manufacturing area and the large secondary interests with which the Australian Country Party has identified itself in the past. 
That is the fundamental reason why this Labor Government is intent upon extending the Tariff Board, as we know it and as it has existed in the past, from the organisation it is today to this new Commission which will encompass, as I said before, not only secondary industry but primary industry as well. I suppose it is a bit of a knock to the Country Party to think that its decisions in the future will have to come under the scrutiny of this Commission and that its decisions and the reasons for those decisions and recommendations to the Government will be made public. It will not be so easy for it to disregard any of the opposition that is generally offered in counter to its proposals for assistance to the various industries that it assisted in the past. I support the Government in this Bill. I am opposed to the amendment moved by the Leader of the Australian Country Party. His arguments are bunkum. They do not deserve support. They are advanced to prop up the sectional interests of what is the most outrageous agrarian pressure group this country has ever seen. 
If you move that amendment, I will support your proposal. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I move and amendment to that effect? 
 in that case, I will continue in my present vein. The Camp Hill site, restricted as it is to 65 acres, is a very limited area. 
The parliamentary buildings in Washington and Ottawa are inadequate already. Even though the buildings are quite grandiose, they are inadequate because the sites on which they are built are too small. So I am persuaded to believe that the 81 acres that is presently available at the Capital Hill site, within the circumference of the ring road, is a reasonably large area for the parliamentary building. Additionally, another 60 acres is available between the circumference of the internal ring road and the outer ring road. This gives a total of some 140 acres on that site. So we are comparing a Capital Hill site of 140 acres with an area of 65 acres available on Camp Hill. On that basis, Capital Hill must be selected. 
The only section of the Capital Hill ring road system which can jeopardise the Capital Hill site is the butterfly road past the Prime Minister's Lodge which leads to other areas of Canberra. That is the only section of the Capital. Hill ring road which could not be disturbed. The other sectors of it could be used. The internal ring road could be quite easily used as an access road to the parliamentary buildings themselves. There is no basis for anyone arguing that the internal ring road would be detrimental to the value of the site. 
In returning to the proposal. I put this proposition: Firstly, we ought to support the site which provides sufficient area on which to erect a building which will be of value in the long-term. I do not think that an area of 65 acres is large enough. If honourable members choose the Capital Hill site they will allow this building to be kept in its entirety. Whilst many sections of it are not worth keeping other than just for office accommodation, I believe that this chamber, the Senate chamber and King's Hall are worth preserving. We can preserve this building and not interrupt the view straight down across the lake and up to the War Memorial, which would be the view from Capital Hill, and at the same time have a large enough area to build a building that would accommodate both the House of Representatives and the Senate and expanded staff facilities for honourable members. 
It is argued - I think, with some reason - by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development that if we do not proceed now it will be a long time before we get a building. I accept his argument. I can see the value of staged construction - constructing the office accommodation sections first and then getting around to the chambers; I can see a lot of merit in that. But I think that this building will be a very historic building. As far as the national interest is concerned, I do not think that the factor of inconvenience to the present members of the Parliament ought to weigh heavily against the choosing of the Capital Hill site to build a larger parliament building. If we look at the proposal in its totality, on the basis that the building will be constructed in one stage and not in several stages as proposed in the amendment, 1 think that would be worth doing. Even if it takes a few years longer to get around to a competition and to build it in one go, that will be a better result in the long run than siting it on that small area between the back of this building and the ring road behind it, which comprises 65 acres, and then having to demolish most of the sections of this building. 
Let me go back to the original proposition 1 put up because I want honourable members to take some notice of it. I believe that it is naive in the extreme to think that Capital Hill will remain a grassy hill. I think that it will have a building on it. If my hunch is right, the people that I refer to as the czars of the Commonwealth Public Service will have their empire based up there on top of Capital Hill. If someone says that is not on, who would have believed that the building of a ring road around Capital Hill was on? Who would have believed that the Parliament would have supported that? But the Gorton administration did not worry about that. The road went there anyway. That Prime Minister overruled the decisions of this House and the other House on the siting of the parliament house on Capital Hill. That is worrying to me. If there were to be no building up there, the Camp Hill site would be adequate in terms of the aesthetics of the view around Canberra. But if there were a permanent parliament house on Camp Hill and another conglomeration on Capital Hill the aesthetics would be destroyed, the parliament building would be obscured by what would be above it, and I do not think that would be an acceptable proposition. If Walter Burley Griffin, the winner of the original competition, proposed a parliament house on Camp Hill and a grassy area on Capital Hill, to be left at that, I would say: Fair enough; I would not like to upset his design. But that was not his intention.  His  intention was for parliament house to be on Camp Hill and for a larger building on Capital Hill. The function of that building would be immaterial; Walter Burley Griffin's choice as to the occupation of the other building need not be considered. The fact is that there would be 2 buildings, one on Capital Hill and one on Camp Hill. If that is to be the case, I submit that the building on Capital Hill ought to be the parliament house and not some head office for the bureaucracy. So on that basis I cannot support the amendment moved by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I have no alternative but to support the proposition moved by the honourable member for Corio, which is that the question go to a vote of both Houses. Of course, both Houses have to decide it. Even if we decide here on Camp Hill, the matter has still to be considered by the Senate. It must go to a vote by both Houses. When both Houses decide, we let a competition for the design of the building to go on whatever site is chosen - I believe that Capital Hill ought to be and probably will be chosen - then we can proceed on the basis of erecting a building there. In much the same way a competition was let recently for the Sydney Opera House. Admittedly that took 14 years to build. Everybody talked about it in the past but now they are saying what a great concept and what a beautiful building it is. The period of 14 years has been forgotten, the cost will become cheaper as inflation makes the cost of buildings dearer, and people will say: 'Why did we not have a couple of them?' 
There has been talk about delay and inconvenience to members, but they really are not very strong arguments. What is at issue, and what is the main consideration, is the quality of the building that goes on Capital Hill or on the site which is chosen by the two Houses of the Parliament. The quality of the building will not be impaired if we commence now a competition for the design of the building and construct it in one go, not in stages. For that reason I believe that I should support the proposal made by the honourable member for Corio, and in supporting his proposal I indicate to honourable members that when the opportunity comes to vote on the site I will vote for the Capital Hill site. 
-We have heard a lot of whingeing and wailing from the Opposition tonight in the debate on the estimates for the Department of Education, but it is a fact of life that this Government has done more for education than any previous Federal government. Before I refer to the Karmel Committee and the arguments about category A schools and all the other vested interests that this team opposite are prepared to push, I should just like to instance a couple of things that this Government has done in terms of education, other than establishing the Karmel Committee. As from this Budget, university education will be completely free. Commonwealth advanced education and teachers' colleges will also be completely free. The recurring capital costs of teachers' colleges are to be met by the Commonwealth. Pre-school teachers' colleges are entirely free. They are just a few of the things that the Opposition chooses not to mention. Let us look at the Budget allocation for education. It has increased from $439m in the days of the last Budget of the former Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  to a staggering $843m under the Budget of the present Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  an increase of 92 per cent in one year. One could say that a 92 per cent increase in a Budget allocation, increasing it from $ 10m to about $20m, would be a substantial increase, but an increase from $400m-odd to $800m-odd is something that has never happened before in this Parliament. 
All the debate on education by members of the Liberal and Country parties has been centred upon category A schools and how the wealthy parents have been chopped out of their lollies from the Commonwealth. That is what their contributions to the debate have been all about, not about the quality of education or the equality of opportunity for all Australian children regardless of their denomination or whether they attend a State school. This is not at issue; what is at issue is whether the Greater Public Schools from which most of the Liberal and Country Party members come will be able to get the money that was handed out by the Commonwealth under a per capita grants system which of course was devised by  Mr Menzies  in co-operation with  Mr Santamaria  and others. 
The honourable member for Angas laughs but he knows that the science blocks grants were the medium used by the Liberal Party to retain the preferences of the Democratic Labor Party. That is what those grants were all about. The Party of the honourable member for Angas which traditionally has absolutely no ties or connections with the Catholic community or the Catholic Church was prepared to subsidise science blocks in Catholic schools so that that money could go to rich Protestant schools. That is what that was all about. Honourable members opposite want that money to continue going to these schools, regardless of the children in poor schools throughout the length and breadth of the Commonwealth. If we get back to the issue, that is what it is all about. Honourable members opposite have used the Catholic Church organisation and the parents and friends of that organisation to bolster their adherence to the per capita grants system so that they could keep money going to wealthy parents. 
Let us get back to the wealthy parents. Anyone who is claiming the maximum taxation deduction for education of $600 and who is sending his child to a school where fees are around $800 or $900 a year is paying in excess of 50c in the $1 taxation - probably about 60c in the $1 - and about $400 of this $800 is returned to him as a taxation deduction; not only that but also 80 per cent of the students at those schools were receiving Commonwealth scholarships under the previous Government so that it meant the parents were again getting an increment from the Commonwealth by way of those scholarships; and not only that but also 90 per cent of the students of these schools went on to university and it was costing the Commonwealth Government of Australia about $5,000 per head per student for every year that they were at university. These greedy people got the cream of the crop all the way. They got the best that the Commonwealth was able to offer and for that they have used, cajoled and badgered and had every one in the establishment, including those bishops of the Catholic Church who were on-side, come in and back them to prop up a rotten, iniquitous per capita grants system that denied a child in an electorate such as the one I represent, at a school with a pupil-teacher ratio of about 50 to one the opportunity of obtaining a reasonable standard of education and access to tertiary education later. That is what it is all about. 
The Australian Labor Party recognises this and believes that children in Australia should get a better opportunity. We established the Karmel Committee. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  set up the Committee within a few weeks of the Labor Party taking office. That Committee brought down recommendations. In making those recommendations the Committee decided to look at the resources of various schools. Professor Karmel and his Committee decided that they would establish an index which they called a resource index where an index of 100 represented State schools. They found that, on the basis of the criteria represented by the index of 100, some private schools were at a resource index level of 270. Some poor Catholic schools were on a resource index level of about 40 while a lot of government schools were below the index of 100. The aim of the Committee in its recommendations was to raise the quality of education to a resource index level of 140 by 1979. This Government will ensure continuing and increasing allocations to that end. 
In this resource index range of 40 to 270 were all the schools in Australia. The Committee graded as category A schools those schools which presently have a resource index of between 140 and 270 and which have a resource index target of 140 by 1979. My Party at Cabinet level decided that we would subsidise these schools no longer and I think that this is a completely justifiable decision. But unfortunately, the whole debate has ranged around category A schools and not the enormous benefit that will go to the children across the length and breadth of Australia, regardless of denomination, because of the policies of this Government. 
Honourable members opposite talk about how badly we have treated those schools. In regard to recurrent and capital costs for libraries and science blocks of category A schools, at the end of the program in 2 years' time the amount allocated to these schools will total about $9.2m. Let me just refer to a couple of the schools to give honourable members some idea of the amount of money that has gone to these schools. Kincoppal school at Rose Bay, which could be regarded as a GPS quality school - a Catholic school - has received $128,000; Haileysbury College at Keysborough has received $303,000; Scotch College at Hawthorn in Victoria has received $236,000. The science block program will run until 1975 and the library program until 1974. 
So these schools have been treated more than fairly. But we are obliged in terms of the media and of the establishment and the pressure which the Liberal and Country Parties can bring to bear to keep pouring money into category A schools. 
If honourable members went to some of the schools around the foreshores of Sydney Harbour and the eastern suburbs they would see beautiful old schools with pupil-teacher ratios in the 20s, with lovely gardens and a flock of Mercedes and Jaguars out the front. Yet honourable members opposite argue that the parents of those children should get the same treatment as someone in my electorate with a child in a mud playground, being taught in a portable hut where the pupil-teacher ratio is about 40 to one. These grants have been used and abused too much but this will occur no more. What is more, once the report of the Karmel Committee is accepted by my Party and the Australian Schools Commission runs for a few years, honourable members opposite will not be game to change it back to the old system. The arguments of  Mr Santamaria  and others that the lack of bipartisanship will destroy the concept of aid to denominational schools is a lot of rubbish. He is saying that the system of granting money for education in the denominational area is in jeopardy because it does not have the support of the Greater Public Schools and of the protestant schools, which are basically in the GPS area, this being what he calls the lack of bipartisan support. The fact that the Karmel Committee is enshrined in a schools commission and in legislation with a major policy commitment by a one-Party Government which was elected at a Federal election does not cut any ice at all. 
If the children of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and people like him are not receiving a subsidy by going to the schools which their parents attended,  Mr Santamaria  believes that the LiberalCountry Party will no longer be interested in aid to denominational schools. On that basis the Catholic bishops ought to refuse the money going to their poor schools. Some of them are silly enough and criminal enough to fall for it. One can see the shabby, lousy, miserable politics that members of the Opposition played with Catholic children just to prop up an iniquitous per capita grants system so that wealthy people like them who do not wish to pay out money to educate their own children will receive a per capita grant from the Commonwealth of Australia on the same terms as a parent in my electorate who has perhaps an income of around $3,500 or $4,000 a year. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Minister for Labour seen reports of New South Wales Premier Askin's proposed state of emergency legislation whereby unionists could be gaoled for striking? Does the Government see any merit in this proposal? Would the legislation affect the Minister's stewardship of industrial relations in Australia? 
The matter of public importance proposed for debate by the Opposition does not deserve any consideration by this House; in fact, it deserves its contempt. Members of the Opposition cannot have their cake and eat it too. They talk about a prospective shortage of fuel in Australia, yet 2 weeks ago the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  who proposed this matter for debate today was whinging and whining because the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  intended to acquire Australian natural gas at the well head off the north west shelf of Australia. What the Leader of the Country Party was saying was that the companies should be able to export the natural gas and it was like the Minister's hide to want to acquire it for Australia and keep it for Australian domestic consumption. On the one hand members opposite say: 'Sell it and export it' and on the other hand they say: 'The Government is not taking enough action to see that our resources are kept in reserve'. 
It is strange that the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  should support the contentions of the Leader of the Country Party as the honourable member for Farrer was the architect of the give away of half of the oil resources of Bass Strait to a foreign conglomerate with Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. The honourable member for Farrer, as the responsible Minister, gave up the graticular system. Both of these honourable members are guilty of neglect in the area of oil resources. The Leader of the Country Party is an interesting proposition. It is interesting that he introduced this matter because the Opposition  speaker  on this subject is the honourable member for Farrer, a member of the Liberal Party. Of course, the Country Party is the lobbyist for any manufacturing or major foreign group and it will come into this Parliament and express the view of such a group. I say quite unashamedly that if the speech of the Leader of the Country Party was written by him or his staff I would be most surprised. It was probably written by the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association or the Australian Mining Industry Council or one of the foreign oil firms. What the ploy is all about is that the Opposition is not interested to see that Australia has domestic reserves; it is interested in pressuring this Government into going back to a form of exploration where those companies can come in on the grouter and get Government subsidies and tax concessions and at the same time maintain the full equity in the area they are exploring. 
It was only a week ago, as the Minister for Minerals and Energy mentioned, that the Leader of the Australian Country Party was stamping up and down because the Australian Labor Party was requiring the Australian Wheat Board to give credit to the United Arab Republic for the purchase of wheat. We said that unless we gave credit we would not keep faith with a trading partner in the area of wheat. Not only that, it is the Arab countries that supply crude oil to Australia. So if anyone was putting the supplies of crude oil to Australia in jeopardy it was the Leader of the Australian Country Party and nobody else. 
When we talk about his intention to export natural gas we should remember that the last Government, of which he and the honourable member for Farrer were members, allowed the export from Australia of 8i million barrels per annum of liquefied petroleum gas. So the equivalent of about one-eighth of the quantity of crude oil we received from the Middle East was exported from our own resources in the Bass Strait. That is what the Opposi tion thinks about conserving our resources for the future. It is just a lot of humbug and I think every member of the House can see it. The honourable member for Farrer opposed the repeal of sections 77 and 78 of the Income Tax Act, which he knew, and which he admitted to me on a television program, were sops to the small mining industries spawned in the mining boom of 1970. The concessions were not going to genuine producers. In fact they were a major cost against the taxpayers of Australia for no benefit. Members of the Opposition know that to drill one hole offshore costs $lm and the number of companies in Australia that were capable of taking on that sort of exploration could be counted on one hand. 
When those sections were repealed the Minister said that the Bureau of Mineral Resources would investigate each exploration company to see that it measured up to standard. If it had a prospect that was worth exploring further direct subsidy would be given on the recommendation of the Bureau of Mineral Resources. So to that extent any company with a reasonable prospect of finding oil would get support from this Government. But what the Opposition wants is a hand-out, not just for the oil companies that have a reasonable prospect of finding oil but for all of the people who are its friends in the mining area who got into little lousy companies in the mining boom of 1970 and intend to milk directors' fees out of them till about the year 2000. That is what the Opposition is interested in and that is what the Leader of the Australian Country Party is interested in. 
Just have a look at the Government's record in the area of minerals and energy. We introduced the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill, something over which the honourable member for Farrer was personally prepared to destroy his own Prime Minister. Not only that, he opposed the mining code sections of the Bill which allow this Parliament to regulate off-shore mining in Australia. Yet he says that we are interrupting the course of exploration. We intend to introduce a national petroleum and minerals authority. We will introduce a Bill to make sure that money from this Parliament goes into exploration for Australian oil through a national organisation for the benefit of Australians. So why should we not put the great expertise of the Bureau of Mineral Resources to work in an authority which can search and mine and produce minerals and energy? 
We have also taken steps to conserve the gas on the North West Shelf by making sure that our domestic requirements are met before any natural gas is exported. But the honourable member for Farrer and the Leader of the Country Party see their role as to the Woodside-Burmah consortium to make sure that it gets the right to export to the Japanese and the west coast of the United States natural gas markets. They are not interested in conserving the gas; they are interested only in looking after their friends. 
Let us look at other things that the Government has done. We intend to strip liquids from the north west shelf. We intend to make sure that there are adequate petrol supplies from the liquids that come with the condensate from the North West Shelf. We intend to set up a petrochemical plant to that end. We also are looking at the prospect of using solar energy. I think the Minister for Minerals and Energy mentioned in his speech today that in discussions with the Japanese Minister for International Trade and Industry,  Mr Nakasone,  there were discussions around the question of solar energy. So in every respect in terms of energy in Australia - with hydrocarbons in the aggregate, not just oil and natural gas and in other forms - we intend to make sure that Australia's domestic requirements are supplied before anything else. Let us just look at what the Opposition did in terms of oil search subsidy. In 20 years it paid out $174m. That was a miserable $8.7m a year. That would bore 8 holes a year. On the normal drilling ratio, oil is generally found in about one hole in every sixteen. So $8.7m would finance the equivalent of 8 holes a year. So in fact the rate of exploration financed by the Opposition might not find even one deposit. 
The Opposition is squealing about sections 77a, 77b, 77c and 78 of the Income Tax Assessment Act as they will apply to natural gas. These provisions were repealed. Between 1958 and 1971 the previous Government expended $11 Om - over 13 years. This amounted to $8.5m a year, which is a trifling amount. When one considers what is to be done in terms of oil exploration in a meaningful way in Australia, the Opposition has given only lip service to it at best. That money did not go to any decent Australian company out looking for oil or minerals; it went to the multi-nationals. We find that the Minister has to agree to provide the likes of the Royal Dutch Shell company with tax concessions under these provisions which were agreed to in the days of the previous Government, which was a disgraceful arrangement for the previous Government to enter into. Of all that money that was spent on exploration not 1 per cent in equity was acquired for the Commonwealth of Australia. A sum of $849m was spent on exploration in 20 years; $413m of that $849m was supplied by the Government and not a miserable 1 per cent of equity was acquired for the people of Australia. The Opposition ought to be ashamed of itself. It has no record and no credibility in the area of oil speculation. 
You ought to hang your head in shame. 
In all of its forms, in the aggregate of hydrocarbons, for that $849m which has been expended on exploration the total value of the produce discovered is worth $14 billion. That is assuming that the natural gas is valued on the basis of 20 cents per 1000 cubic feet. But with the oil at current market values, it is worth $14 billion. A return of $14 billion on an outlay of $849m is a massive return for any of the companies operating in this area. Yet the honourable member for Farrer sees his role as coming into this Parliament to make sure that the companies get more. We see our role as making sure that the people of Australia have adequate hydrocarbon reserves in all of their various forms and any return that comes from the sale of those reserves comes back in the corporate sense to the people of Australia. 
The question of restrictive trade practices was first dealt with in the Tudor period in England. In 1624 the Parliament passed a Statute of Monopolies. Canada was next to pass such legislation. In 1889 it passed what was called the Combines Investigation Act. That legislation was revamped in 1951. In 1890  -  the year after Canada passed its original legislation - the United States of America followed with the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. That was followed by the Clayton Act of 1915, which dealt with takeover bids, and the RobinsonPatman Act of 1936. Britain introduced the Monopolies and Restrictive Practices Act in 1948 and replaced it with a comprehensive Restrictive Trade Practices Act in 1956. 
Australia did not have similar legislation until 1906. That was in the form of an Act which was then known as the Australian Industries Preservation Act, which was subsequently invalidated in large part by the High Court of Australia in the famous Huddart Parker v Moorehead case of 1909. In the early 1960s the present Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, introduced, as a Minister, a progressive set of proposals which was submitted to the House in 1962. The enactment came in 1965 in an emasculated form and was finally proclaimed in 1967. In its then form the Act was almost next to useless. The Commissioner of Trade Practices,  Mr Bannerman,  in his annual report to Parliament in 1971, at the time of the amendments, said: 
I feel bound to say that progress needs to be accelerated. There are signs of this happening. Unless progress does become quicker, the legislation will take many years to produce a general impact against restriction of competition and in favour of competitive attitudes. 
In 1971 there were 13,276 examinable agreements. Only fifteen were dealt with then outside of the Tribunal. In 1961 the former Government made amendments to the Act. It could have revamped the whole of the Act if it had seen fit to do so. I would like to quote also from the report of the Commissioner to Parliament of that year. At page 13 of his report the Commissioner said: 
Coming now to the year on which I am currently reporting, Chapter 1 of this report shows modest progress in terms of anti-competitive restrictions lifted, without the cases concerned going to the Tribunal. Eight cases were dealt with at section 48 consultations and another seven after the cases had been taken up with the parties, but without the necessity for section 48 consultations. The Commissioner's dealing with cases is time-consuming, because in practice it covers the issues that will be contested before the Tribunal if the cases reach the Tribunal. The Commissioner is not able to take a case to the Tribunal until he has formed the opinion that the restrictions in question are contrary to the public interest, and until he has consulted with the parties, or attempted to consult with them, with a view to securing action on their part that will make Tribunal proceedings unnecessary. It follows that the pattern of restriction will remain in Australia for many years if most cases are to be dealt with case by case at the Commissioner's level, subject to secrecy and without the assistance of general rules either in legislation or in decisions of the Tribunal. 
Those were the words of the Commissioner in 1971, which is when the former Government amended the Act. They were the last amendments before the Act was invalidated that year. We are all aware now of how the Act became invalid. In 1971 the Commissioner of Trade Practices required 2 companies in Queensland - Rocla Pipes and Monier Pipes - to register an examinable agreement - an agreement made on an intrastate basis and not an interstate basis. Rocla and Monier refused to register the agreement and the Commissioner took both companies to the Industrial Court. The Industrial Court upheld their defence - their view - and the Commonwealth, to test the constitutional basis of the legislation, took the decision of the Industrial Court to the High Court. 
It must have been quite a boon for the Chief Justice of the day,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, finally to find that the Restrictive Trade Practices Act that was proclaimed in 1967 in an emasculated form compared with the one he had proposed in 1962 was declared invalid by his Court. It was to be declared invalid so that the corporation power of the Commonwealth could be revamped. The corporation power, of course, extends right back to Federation. It was an interesting development in constitutional history. It is probably the most significant decision of the High Court in 50 years. Of course, the upshot of it was if the corporalion power were to be reinstated the constitutional premise for the old Restrictive Trade Practices Act was such that the Act was completely and totally invalid except for the section dealing with resale price maintenance. The Act disappeared from the statute because of that. 
The Joint Committee on Constitutional Review was a Committee that was set up by this Parliament in 1958-59. It had many distinguished members of Parliament sitting upon it. The members of the Committee were the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies,  Dr Evatt, Sir Alec  Downer, Reg Wright, who is a senator in another place,  Mr Percy  Joske and  Mr Arthur  Calwell. Page 113 of the Committee's report states: 
The Committee reported in 19S8 that the Commonwealth Parliament could make laws for the control of harmful restrictive trade practices in interstate trade and commerce but that its legislative power did not extend to harmful restrictive trade practices adopted in intrastate commerce or productive industry. The Committee considered that the Commonwealth Parliament should have an express power to deal with restrictive trade practices so far as they were contrary to the public interest and, for the purpose of determining whether a business practice was contrary to the public interest, it proposed the reconstitution of the Inter-State Commission for which section 101 of the Constitution provides, with a minor change in the method of constituting that Commission. 
The report went on to say: 
At one time, it was thought that section 51 (xx.) of the Constitution, which confers power upon the Commonwealth to make laws with respect to foreign corporations and trading or financial corporations formed within the limits of the Commonwealth, would enable the Parliament to prohibit harmful practices of the corporations described in the paragraph. In Huddart Parker and Co. Pty Ltd v. Moorehead (1909) 8 C.L.R. 330, the majority of the High Court held, however, among other things, that a law of the Commonwealth Parliament which made it an offence for any of the types of corporations described in paragraph (xx.) to conclude a contract or combine with intent to restrain trade or commerce within the Commonwealth to the detriment of the public, or to destroy or injure by unfair competition any advantageous Australian industry, was ultra vires. The Court held to be ultra vires a Commonwealth law making it an offence for the corporations so described to monopolise to the public detriment trade or commerce within the Commonwealth. Chapter 16, dealing with the Committee' recommendation concerning corporations, contains, at paragraph 787, an account of the reasoning of the judges in the case. 
The report deals then with the Australian Industries Preservation Act of 1906, which contained provisions to stop restrictive trade practices. The report states: 
The Parliament's power to control trading practices and monopolies in the course of external and interstate trade was clear enough but section 5 and 8 of the Act, applying a similar interdiction to the corporations specified in paragraph (xx.) of section 51, were, as the Committee has already indicated, successfully challenged in Moorehead's case. 
What was the strength of the Australian Industries Preservation Act was destroyed by that judgment at that time. So that corporation power remained dormant until the High Court revalidated it just 2 years ago. The original Act of 1965 was a useless piece of legislation. It was not designed effectively to challenge restrictive trade practices in Australia and there were so many provisions in it which allowed let-outs for any company that wanted to register an examinable agreement. I should like to read from the 1971 report of the Commissioner of Trade Practice wherein he said: 
By contrast, the private right of action under the 1965 Act is in substance much more limited, because it is a right to sue for damages in the Commonwealth Industrial Court only after the Tribunal has given a decision declaring an agreement or practice to be contrary to the public interest and its order has been disobeyed. Complainants cannot themselves institute Tribunal proceedings, but they might in any event find the expense of Tribunal proceedings beyond their means and the difficulties of getting industry information to deal with the 1965 public interest criteria insurmountable. 
In other words, what the Commissioner was saying in almost every report from the time when the Act became law was that the Act was unworkable for the intentions of the legislation and for the benefit of the public. So it is with justification that the Labor Party has always said that the Snedden Act of 1965 was a hopeless piece of legislation. In fact, it was only a pious attempt to suggest that the Government had done anything about restrictive trade practices. As the law stood, if a company registered an agreement it would not be taken before the tribunal. The company finally could be called in by the Commissioner for consultation and persuasion. In the meantime it could carry on with its business. As there were 30,000-odd examinable agreements this meant that action could be 10 to 11 years away. If the Commissioner made an order, all that was required was that the agreement be ripped up. That satisfied the Act. Of course the restrictive trade practice had gone on for years and probably the companies were so au fait with one another that they did not need an agreement anyway. It was very difficult for the public ever to do anything about the restrictive practice. The details of the agreement were secret. They were not examinable by the public so the only person who knew what was in the agreement was the conspirator with the companies that lodged the agreement. If anyone wanted to sue the companies for damages he could not do so unless the companies were penalised for a breach of the Act. There were absolutely no convictions - not one conviction - under the old Act. It was a total piece of sham legislation. 
By contrast, this present legislation will prohibit the following practices: contracts, combinations in conspiracies in restraint of trade, monopolisation, exclusive dealing, resale price maintenance, price discrimination and anti-competitive mergers. This will be a complete restrictive trade practices Act - as complete as the Acts of the British and Canadian parliaments. Of course, it is based now on much sounder constitutional premises. I can see no reason why the Opposition should object to any of the provisions of this Bill. The Bill, when it becomes an Act, will also assist the Government in the areas of general economic policy by restraining companies and prices of various commodities. It will help in the present fight against inflation and in the future regulation of the economy. I will not take up the time of the House to discuss the matter further. This is a good Bill. It deserves the support of the House and I hope it gets it. 
Motion (by  Mr Hansen)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
 Mr Deputy Chairman,  I will read from the transcript of the tape. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Blaxland will resume his seat. The honourable member for Warringah has moved dissent from my ruling. 
Question put: 
That the ruling be dissented from. 
I wish to deal with a matter relating to electoral affairs which comes under the stewardship of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  It is a very sordid display, in fact a treacherous display, of lack of unity between the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party in the State seat of Murray in New South Wales. This despicable act of treachery on the part of the Country Party is an attempt to destroy the Liberal Party candidate in that seat,  Mrs Meillon,  on the basis of a charade of a public meeting which was held to endorse a candidate by the Country Party as an independent Country Party candidate. In an attempt to deceive the electors of Murray the Country Party broke an agreement with its Liberal partner and went to these lengths. I should like to read from an article that appeared in the Deniliquin 'Pastoral Times' under the major heading 'Jeffrey Goes Again' and the sub-heading 'Electors Dismayed'. 
I want to speak about conspiracy and bribery by the Country Party in the State seat of Murray in New South Wales. My remarks are related to a bribe offered by a Country Party- 
There is no point of order. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! Honourable members will wait until I hear the point of order. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I have to make sure whether it is a point of order or a point of view. The honourable member for Indi. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! 
On the point of order,  Mr Deputy Chairman- 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN - Do you wish to speak to the point of order? 
Yes. Under the estimates for the Department of Services and Property you will see an amount of $9,000 for the printing of supplementary rolls for State purposes, and this affects a roll for an election in which the candidates have taken part in bribery and corruption in the State seat of 
Murray in New South Wales. My remarks are applicable to the administration and the payment of that money. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I will rule on the point of order. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - The honourable member for Maronoa will wait until I have ruled on this point of order, if he does not mind. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I rule that if the honourable member relates his remarks to matters connected with the Department of Services and Property - I have not had much chance on this second occasion on which he has spoken to find out whether that is the case because immediately the honourable member got to his feet a point of order was taken - he is in order. However, I do think that he has to be very careful that his remarks are related to that Department and the duties of that Department. 
The Department of Services and Property- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! There is no substance in that point of order. I have to treat this speech of the honourable member for Blaxland separately from the earlier speech he made. He had only just started to speak when a point of order was taken. It has been rather difficult to determine precisely what he intends to speak about, and until honourable members give me an opportunity to find that out, it is very difficult for me. However, I make the point to the honourable member for Blaxland that he must relate his remarks to the Department of Services and Property and not stray from that Department. 
The Department of Services and Property allocates funds to the- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member is dealing with purely hypothetical matters. He is not dealing with preselection or an internal Party matter; he is dealing with an election campaign. I call the honourable member for Blaxland. 
I am dealing with the holding of the State election campaign. That State campaign embraces the State seat of Murray, which electorate has been prostituted by the Country Party. An independently endorsed Country Party candidate offered the Australian Labor Party candidate,  Mr Drew,  $1,500. There is a tape recording to substantiate this. I have the transcript of the tape recording with me. I want to read it to the House to demonstrate the seriousness of the charges. It states: 
I rise on a point of order,  Mr Deputy Chairman. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Blaxland will resume his seat. I ask the honourable member for Warringah to come to his point of order quickly or he will be asked to resume his seat. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Warringah will resume his seat. 
I desire to raise a matter which relates to the AttorneyGeneral's Department. I request the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  to make investigations concerning the transcript of a tape recording involving corruption between 2 persons involved in electoral affairs in the New South Wales State seat of Murray. I would like to read from a transcript of a tape recording so that the Attorney-General's Department can make an assessment of the content of the material. The transcript reads: 
Drew: Yeah, well, I understand you're not nominated by a party so it's not a party deal. It's a private one. 
Jeffery: It's a private deal - and if - do you think a thousand can swing it? Do you think fifteen hundred will swing it? Well - you will probably- 
Drew: I wouldn't know until I put it to them! See? But I had to have something specific! It's no good talking- 
Jeffery: Well, all right. Can you go back and say, How does a fat thousand sound'? And if they say, No' - I don't know - honestly don't know till I put it to the boys- 
The newspaper article continues: 
He said the parties had a gentlemen's agreement and he was sorry the Country Party in Murray was not sticking to it. 
However, I think that all right-thinking people can see what's going on and I am sure they will reaffirm their support for  Mrs Mellion  even more strongly,' he added. 
That is an indication of the deceit with which the Country Party carries on and the way it treats its coalition partner. 
Just by contrast I will refer to the position with regard to the New South Wales seat of Temora which is just next door. I will give the Liberal Party due credit because it says, in its official how-to-vote sheet which is issued State-wide, that it recommends a vote to the official Country Party candidate, the sitting member  Mr J.  H. Taylor, in the Temora electorate. So in the seat of Temora the Liberal Party is at least sticking to its agreement but in the seat of Murray the Country Party is up to its usual miserable tricks. I should like to read from an article in the Deniliquin 'Pastoral Times' of 26 October. It says: 
At a large public meeting held Tuesday Deniliquin following a Murray Electorate Council Meeting of the Country Party, Jerilderie man,  Mr Bruce  Jeffery, was re-endorsed to stand at the State Election to be held on 17 November. The meeting endorsed  Mr Jeffery  as an Independent Country Party Candidate. 
The article goes on to suggest that the Country Party, of course, thought that if it endorsed a Country Party candidate it would have to abide by its agreement, so it endorsed an Independent Country Party candidate. That candidate then got in touch with the Labor Party candidate to secure his preferences. This is a matter that the Attorney-General should look at. He should try to get all the facts on this matter. As the New South Wales Parliament is in recess at the moment there can be no review of this matter in that Parliament before the election is held in that State. It is high time that there were Commonwealth laws to protect the rights of electors in some of the corrupt States. New South Wales is becoming more and more corrupt under the regime of Cutler and Askin. I think that is well known to everybody. I ask the Attorney-General to investigate this matter urgently and to notify the State Electoral Office within the State seat of Murray in New South Wales. 
Is this not indicative of the rotten borough approach the Country Party has, of its shoddy, crook deals that it has perpetrated in the past, right back to the days when  Sir Earle  Page slunk up the back stairs to see the Liberal Party leader Bruce, when all the dirty deals were done? There is a tradition of dirty deals and of course this is the dirtiest of the lot. The Country Party has ratted on its coalition partner. It said: 'No, we are not standing a Country Party candidate'. But the ALP candidate,  Mr Drew,  in public service, not only rejected this offer but he also recorded the contents of the conversation. So at least the electors of Murray who take part in this coming election will know that there are at least 2 honest candidates, the Liberal Party candidate and the Labor candidate. The Country Party candidate will get the treatment he deserves. I hope that his endorsement is withdrawn. 
What ought to be looked at is the corruption within the New South Wales Country Party structure, because no one can say that at the head office level the Country Party would not be aware of this sort of dealing or that it would not be aware that a public meeting endorsed an Independent Country Party candidate within 2 hours of the Country Party meeting finishing. They all moved from one meeting hall to another, and they then proceeded to adopt this character as the independent Country Party candidate. Then, not losing any time, this chap scurried down and then obviously offered from the Country Party's coffers and slush funds $1,500 or $1,000 whichever he thought the Labor Party would be prepared to accept by way of a bribe to give its preferences to the Country Party in an endeavour to beat  Mrs Millen,  the legitimately elected Liberal Party member for the State seat of Murray who was returned at the last election for that seat. 
These facts do indicate how true are the claims that are made about the Labor Party's position. We have always said that the Australian people ought to be looking for a 2-party system made up of the Australian Labor Party and the Liberal Party, although we disagree with the policies of that Party. I believe that the Country Party - this agrarian pressure group, this shocking rump - has illustrated once again just how corrupt and how crooked it is and to what lengths it will go to win a seat in any Parliament in Australia. We need only to consider that in Queensland the Country Party governs with 17 per cent of the total State vote. The tail is wagging the dog in New South Wales. If the truth be known, if we were to investigate what has happened in each electorate held by the Country Party in New South Wales, we would probably see examples of this corruption and double dealing all the way through. 
It is high time that the Commonwealth Electoral Office, the Attorney-General's Department and the State Electoral Office looked at this matter. I ask the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  to look at the matter personally. I ask him to encourage his colleague, the Attorney-General, to look at the matter personally. I ask that the State Electoral Office in New South Wales and, if necessary, the New South Wales Police Department be informed of the details of this disgusting offer by the Country Party of an amount of money to secure Labor Party preferences. Once again the Country Party has prostituted the electoral system and it is high time that the Country Party was found out. I am hopeful that, in the course of these investigations the Labor Party candidate and all the people concerned in this matter will testify to show the Country Party for what it is. 
 Has the Treasurer seen the thesis put forward by  Dr Porter  of the International Monetary Fund in which he states that the lack of action by the former Government in not varying the exchange rate in 1971 could have led to an inflation level of 20 per cent this year had the present Government not acted to revalue the dollar and introduce other monetary measures? Is this a fact? Does the Treasurer believe that the money supplied in the year to June 1973 would have grown by 48 per cent, as predicted by  Dr Porter,  without the corrective measures having been taken by this Government? 
I am glad that the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has raised this matter today because it shows just what a shabby, weak person he is. Every member of this House knows that he can use the Commonwealth crest in a private capacity, in a personal letter and in a letter to an elector without any question of ethics being involved. The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  has just reminded me that the previous  Speaker, Sir William  Aston, used the crest in his last election campaign. It is the normally accepted thing and the Leader of the Country Party knows it. 
There has been talk about corruption in an electioneering campaign. I would like to refer again to the corruption by the Country Party in the State seat of Murray and the offer by its candidate of a bribe to the Labor Party candidate. I commented on this matter a few days ago. I was followed in the debate by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  in this House, who said of the Labor candidate for the State seat of Murray that if - I emphasise the word 'if' - he was going around offering his preferences to everybody and if he was happy to sell them, then he would probably do it again. On the basis of that 'if and that concocted allegation, the honourable member for Murray in this place was able to have the Country Party oriented newspapers in the electorate smear the Labor Party candidate,  Mr Drew. 
I have a tape recording in my hand of the Country Party candidate,  Mr Jeffrey,  clearly offering a bribe to the Labor Party candidate for the State seat of Murray. I intend to tender this tape to the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  In raising this matter, I ask the Attorney-General to investigate and give an opinion of it. I have obtained specific and authoritative legal advice in regard to the allegations made against  Mr Bruce  Jeffrey, the independent Country Party candidate, in relation to the evidence produced. The considered opinion is that there is an open and shut case of bribery and that if this candidate happens to win the seat of Murray he has Buckley's chance of surviving an inquiry by the Court of Disputed Returns, because there is clear evidence of this man's offering the Labor Party candidate a bribe and asking whether $1,000 will be sufficient to get Labor Party preferences to destroy the Liberal Party candidate in the State seat of Murray. It shows just what unity there is between the Country Party and the Liberal Party. The Country Party would not endorse a candidate. It had a public meeting and endorsed an independent candidate so that it could get around the agreement and then it tried to knife the Liberal Party candidate, who is the sitting member, by offering a miserable, filthy bribe to the Labor Party candidate to get- 
 Mr Deputy Speaker- 
You resume your seat. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! I ask both honourable members to resume their seats. I call the honourable member for Gwydir. 
Here it is. I am going to give it to the Attorney-General. 
Similar frivolous points of order were taken the other night. The slimy tentacles of organised crime now reach from King's Cross right down to the banks of the River Murray and the Askin Government is prepared to sit by. This criminal element in the Country Party knows it can do this and have its progress unchecked by the Askin Government. The fact of the matter is that the Country Party will stop at nothing when it comes to any electoral bribery and corruption; yet the Leader of the Country Party has the hide to come into this place today and talk about campaign letterheads. The Leader of the Country Party has used his public office to send out pamphlets and letters. There was a great scream a few years ago in the Public Service because public servants objected to having to prepare campaign literature for  Sir John  McEwen and the Country Party. They have abused their positions in ministries and they know it. Not only that, but also when they get down to basic electoral matters they want to abuse the rights of the electors of Murray by offering a $1,000 bribe to the 
Australian Labor Party candidate to destroy the Liberal Party candidate for that seat. To the credit of the Liberal Party,  in  the adjoining seat of Temora, it has put out a how-to-vote card giving its preferences to the Country Party. But the Country Party is not honouring its commitment. If the Country Party can get out of its commitment by a little shady deal on the side, it will do so. 
Members of the Country Party held a meeting of the State organisation of the Country Party within the State seat of Murray. They decided that they could not endorse a Country Party candidate so they left that meeting and went to a public meeting and endorsed that same man as the independent Country Party candidate. So, of course, that same fellow then ran around to the Labor candidate and offered him a bribe. That is the Country Party for you and yet the Leader of the Country Party comes in here today and tries to smear a Minister - an honest man - because he happens to use his public office to support a candidate in another seat. He is entitled to use that office, as everybody knows. The Leader of the Country Party talked about the staff of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  but the Leader of the Country Party and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  have a staff that is bigger than any Opposition Leader has ever had before in this House. They have been more than fairly treated. In my view, they have been too kindly treated. Let us look at the cronyism in which honourable members opposite have engaged. Members of the Liberal and Country Parties talk about friends of the Labor Party getting jobs, but let us look at some of the former members of the Liberal Party who have been placed in jobs. Honourable members opposite made  Sir Paul  Hasluck Governor-General. They made  Mr Chaney  Administrator of the Northern Territory. Gordon Freeth was made Ambassador to Japan.  Sir Garfield  Barwick was made Chief Justice of the High Court. 

 Her Majesty, but if the honourable member for Blaxland did make such a remark I ask him to withdraw it. 
There was no imputation against the Governor-General. I was merely pointing out that the present Governor-General was at one stage a member of the previous Government. 
He was appointed by you. 
If there was any personal imputation in what I said, I withdraw it. But I also referred to other people appointed by the previous Government.  Sir Garfield  Barwick was appointed to the position of Chief Justice of the High Court. Bill Arthur, the former honourable member for St George, was appointed by Prime Minister Gorton to his personal staff.  Mr McKinnon  is another example. The list is a hundred long, if one looked hard at it. It is cronyism at its worst and honourable members opposite have been experts at it for 23 years. All the boards of statutory corporations are loaded with tories and I see it as one of the roles of this Party in the next decade in office to remove all these characters from these boards and appoint some impartial people. So, there is no basis for the charges made by the Leader of the Country Party. It is just another example of the depths of degradation to which the Country Party will sink in order to achieve any miserable little political gain. 
I refer again to the State seat of Murray and the scandalous allegations made by the honourable member for Murray in this place last week when he said: 'If this Labor Party candidate offers preferences.' He said 'If. He made no specific charge because he can make none. But I was referring to a specific allegation with a tape recording to prove it and 
I have asked the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth to investigate the matter. Because the Country Party is in league with the newspapers in that electorate, the spurious allegation of the honourable member for Murray received coverage while the matter to which I referred, relating to the bribe offered to the Labor Party candidate, did not gain any prominent position in that newspaper. If members of the Country Party wish to persist with this corruption and bribery, we will have the Attorney-General investigate it and the matter will be taken to the Court of Disputed Returns in New South Wales. I publicly ask the Chief Electoral Officer for New South Wales to disallow the candidature of  Mr Jeffery  in this election for the State seat of Murray. 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  was less than honest when he said that the Government had promised not to increase taxation. What it promised at the last election was not to increase personal taxation. It did not do so. In honouring that promise this year the Government has had to take other monetary measures which it would not have taken had it increased personal taxation in the last Budget. So to that extent the Government has kept its word and kept faith with the electorate. The Government gave no specific undertakings in regard to company tax and indirect tax. The Opposition has argued since the election that we are living in an inflationary situation at the present time and that we should have increased personal taxation to a level that would have obviated the need for the introduction of other monetary measures during this year. So in honouring our election promise we did not increase personal taxation. 
On another score, the Opposition ought to make up its mind about the principles by which it wants to operate. I will deal with the question of taxation on any increment earned from the purchase and sale of property within 12 months. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  said that this was a terrible thing, that in his electorate people were moving in and out of properties within 12 months, that they had to replace their properties and, of course, that they were charged income tax on any increment that they received from the sale of the properties. But that does not happen on a very large scale. It is most unusual for a family to move house within a year, and to do it continually. What was happening was that people were buying homes as a hedge against inflation and as a way of earning money for themselves. They were buying homes and selling them within a year. People like estate agents would see a reasonable cheap house come onto the market. They would grab it themselves, add a bit to the price and sell it again because there was always an enormous demand for housing. Within a year they could sell perhaps one or two homes and not have the profits assessed for income tax purposes. That was happening with a lot of people and it was creating an inflationary situation in housing. So we have said that profits from any property bought and sold within 12 months will be assessable for taxation purposes. 
The Opposition, when in government a year previously, adopted a similar principle. It said that the profits from any shares bought and sold within 18 months had to be assessed for taxation purposes. We have applied the same principle. The Opposition cannot apply that principle in one year and then criticise us for adopting a similar principle which provides that profits from a property bought and sold within 12 months are to be assessable for taxation purposes. If a property is bought and sold within 15 months or 2 years, of course, the profit is not assessable for taxation purposes unless the Commissioner of Taxation decides in terms of section 26a of the income tax legislation that the profits are part of the general income earning performance of a family or an individual. If he so decides, the profit from any sale would naturally be assessable for taxation purposes. But that is left to his discretion under section 26a of the Act. 
The question with which I want to deal tonight more than with any other is the question of the retention allowance and undistributed profits tax. This arises from the Government's decision to increase primary tax on private companies from42½c in the $1 after $10,000 to 45c in the $1 this year, and to 47½c in the $1 next year, which will bring the rate into line with those paid by public companies. I agree that the rate of primary tax paid by public companies ought to be brought into line with that paid by private companies, but I have reservations about leaving the retention allowance and the undistributed profits tax provision. I have from the CCH Australian Federal Tax Reporter of April 1973 a table which compares the total tax payable for partnerships with 2 partners as against that paid by a company with 2 shareholders. I seek leave to have this table incorporated in Hansard. 
Br Forbes- Yes. 
I thank the honourable member for Barker. The table shows that on a distributable profit of $10,000 in a partnership of two, the total tax payable is $1,834. In a proprietary company with 2 shareholders the tax is $3,959. If one doubles the distributable profit to $20,000, one finds that in a partnership of two the tax payable is $5,777, and in a proprietary company with 2 shareholders it is $8,741. So below about $15,000 the tax payable by 2 persons who operate in a private company compared with 2 persons who operate in partnership is roughly double - that is after they get through primary company tax on the private company, plus personal tax which is paid after the money is distributed. The differential is even greater in the case of property income where 90 per cent must be distrubuted 
The new rates will, of course, increase this gap to a point where it can be expected that many private companies .will be wound up and their businesses carried on by the proprietors in partnership. This seems to be an unfortunate step because for purely commercial reasons - apart from any taxation considerations - the corporate form is superior to partnership in many respects. I shall outline some of them. The first is limited liability which encourages people to be more venturesome and progressive than they would be with the unlimited liability of a partnership. Let me take, for example, a couple of people in a small machining business who, because of these tax provisions, could no longer afford to be in a private company. They would go into partnership, and if they ran into any heavy weather or if someone defaulted on a contract, their assets, such as their homes, could be sold; they have no limitation of liability. The second question is continuity of business. The death or sudden retirement through illness of a principal of a company is likely to interrupt the smooth running of a business much less where he is a shareholder and director of a company than where he is a member of a partnership which is dissolved by his death. Thirdly, a partnership is a much more difficult relationship and more fruitful of disputes than common shareholding and directorships in a private company, and a person could get into a lot of legal jams because of this. Fourthly, in a private company, generally the introduction of new capital and new principals is easier than in a partnership. 
To overcome the taxation handicaps of the private company and at the same time maintain the advantages of limited liability, businesses might well be forced to enter into unreal and cumbersome arrangements, such as having the profit making operation conducted by a partnership whilst surrounding it in some way by a private company for protection, the private company operating on a non-profit basis. Those considerations point to the need for what I would term an incorporated partnership which would have the benefits of a limited private company but whose members would be taxed as though they were partners. A private company could elect to be treated for tax purposes as an incorporated partnership, the consequence of which would be that the company would lodge tax returns as a partnership now does and would pay no tax. The whole of the company's income would be deemed to be the income of the shareholders and taxed in their hands. The provisions of the taxation Act referring to the partners, that is section 94, would apply to the shareholders. 
If the Treasurer's objective is to prevent taxation abuses by private companies rather than to force people into the inconvenience of partnership, it would seem that there should be no revenue objections to the concept of an incorporated partnership and the practical commercial advantages could be considerable. Furthermore, companies come under the control of the Corporate Affairs Commission and under the companies Acts of the States whereas partnerships do not. So it would seem that the States and Federal authorities should have an interest in seeing that as many enterprises as possible are carried out in corporate form rather than as partnerships. As the whole of the profits would have to be distributed the incorporated partnership concept is likely to be attractive only to the family or small scale enterprise and would be an alternative to partnership and not to public company status. I agree that at the moment there is no choice. If a person is not satisfied to be in a small private company he either has to enter a partnership or a public company. Thus, enterprises would have 4 choices - partnership, incorporated partnership, private company or public company. It seems to me a very sane proposition that a person should be able to elect to go into such a thing as an incorporated partnership because he has all the legal protection of a proprietary company and yet for tax purposes he has only the obligation of an individual. 
In the table that I read earlier I indicated the enormous tax benefits that flow to persons in a partnership with an income under $20,000 or under $30,000 for that matter compared with 2 individuals taxed in a private company. After the primary company tax is paid and after the distributed profits are given to individuals and a personal tax is paid on that, it makes a private company now a very expensive proposition. For large private companies that border on the class of a lot of public companies I have no objection to the retention allowance. It forces these companies to distribute sufficient of their funds or their profits. This is, of course, one of the attractions of the undistributed profit tax or the retention allowance. I think I should make the point that a lot of public companies pay out less than 50 per cent of their profits. In that case the private company is held back. The public company seems now to have enormous advantages over a private company. 
The view has been propounded by a lot of people that the reason why public companies distribute profits is because of shareholder pressure, but very rarely would there be a meeting of shareholders representative of the small shareholders in a public company that would actually force a dividend issue on the directors of a company. Due to the financial inflow to the persons involved in a public company, public companies generally distribute a certain percentage of their profits. By the same token I believe that the private companies would do the same if they did not have the undistributed profits tax. Of course there is the view that can be put by the Treasurer - and I can see his point - that the private companies would then amass funds as undistributed profits and then at some future time wind up the company and collect that money as a capital gain without paying the tax they would have paid had those profits been distributed. On that basis there is value in keeping the retention allowance, but of course where it is not applicable - and I believe it is unfortunate that it will be retained - is to the companies which are of a family company nature or of smaller companies with an income of less than $30,000 a year. A company of 2, 3, 4 or 5 shareholders will pay almost double the tax that it would pay as a partnership. No one would put himself in that position. The shareholders would go into a partnership and the moment they do they have all the legal problems of a lack of liability protection that a private company gives them. Not only that, but for the Federal and State authorities there is no access to these partnerships by the corporate affairs commissions of the various States. 
To that extent I ask the Treasurer to look seriously at this concept of an incorporated partnership. It will allow people to lodge a tax return as a company but be assessed for tax as individuals. If the Treasurer allows that course I think he would do a great service to all those many small companies in Australia that have a lot of initiative and a lot of backbone, that move into the developmental areas on a shoestring, that do a reasonable job and that are developing new technology, processes and industries. A lot of that will be taken away and the companies cannot be half as adventuresome if they have not the protection given to a private company. I ask the Treasurer very sincerely to consider the proposal I make. I will not waste the time of the House on any further matters. There are a number of matters in this Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 5) but I wanted to deal specifically with this issue. 
The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  talks about character assassinations. He has just put in 3 tonight. He mentioned the State member for Mumimbidgee,  Mr Jack  Hallam, M.L.C. He is the gentleman who the honourable member for Murray said offered preferences. There was no talk of money. Everybody around the countryside offers preferences, but not for money. The fact of the matter is that the Country Party candidate is recorded on the tape, which is now with the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy),  as having offered $1,000. What I was talking about to the Parliament was an open and shut case of bribery by the Country Party which would stoop to anything to win a ballot anywhere. It did so to try to defeat the Liberal Party candidate in the State seat of Murray. 
The honourable member for Murray slinks into this House on a personal explanation and defames 2 people without a shred of evidence. He just says that he has information that bribes were offered when in fact he knows that he has no evidence. He could not produce a scintilla of evidence. Yet what I produced I took to the Attorney-General's Department. I have also said it would be produced in the New South Wales Court of Disputed Returns, should this independent Country Party candidate win. The honourable member for 
Murray says he was not a Country Party candidate, yet he is defending this so-called independent. He says: 'Oh, no, he is not one of ours'. But he rises every time to defend him. He said he was one of his personal friends. 
The fact of the matter is that the Country Party rattled out an agreement with the Liberal Party, put the knife in the back of the Liberal Party and then tried to prostitute the electorate by offering $1,000 for the preferences of the Australian Labor Party. But the honourable member for Murray does not accept that and fight on that basis. He makes character assassinations of 2 people but does not have evidence such as  I  have offered. He is not taking the matter to the Court of Disputed Returns. The honourable member would not be game to say it out in King's Hall. There is no chance of that happening, because he knows that if he did he would have a writ right around his ears. (Honourable members interjecting) - 
 The honourable member knows that he would have a writ facing him. He has not the intestinal fortitude to do that; but he stood up on a personal explanation, abused that right and named these 2 people to whom  I  have referred. Not only that, but he named the wife of one of the candidates. How low can one get! He came in here and put in a man's wife by saying that she offered something. What comeback has she got? She has not the comeback that  Mr Gordon  and  Mr Hallam  have. They can take the matter up in the State Parliament. But what chance has the candidate's wife got? That is the depth of degradation to which the Country Party will stoop on any occasion in order to win any ballot anywhere.  I  propose to encourage my Party at the next election to make certain- 
This is a frivolous point of order,  Mr Speaker.  I want you to take action against- 
As  I  was saying, the Country Party will do anything. What should happen in the future is that whenever our Party's preferences are to be distributed they ought to go to the other major party, tha Liberal Party, so as to cut this agrarian pressure group, this cheap chiselling rump, out of this place, because the quicker these hillbillies and racketeers are taken from the national Parliament the better. The honourable member for Murray said that  Sir Charles  Cutler, the  Deputy  Premier in New South Wales, also was involved in this discussion. But the candidate to whom  I  have referred apparently is an Independent candidate. This illustrates how independent- 
 Mr Speaker,  it is about time you named people who take frivolous points of order. 
When  I  raised this matter 2 weeks ago  I  was not able, in two 10-minute segments, to speak, because points of order were taken. But none of them were relevant, they were not points of order at all. The fact is that this individual  - I  would like to give him a more explicit name than that but- 
Well, what else is he? He is an individual. 
I was about to say heeler', but probably it is not parliamentary; so I did not use that word. The point is that the honourable member came into this place and character assassinated a couple of people; and then he says that he did not raise the muck. I was not raising muck. I was letting the people of New South Wales know that the Country Party was prepared to stoop to corruption and bribery to win seats and to hold their seats in the New South Wales State Parliament. We offered evidence to be taken to the Commonwealth Attorney-General or the Court of Disputed Returns in New South Wales. 
Against this there has been, without a scintilla of evidence, this shabby, low-heel attack by the honourable member for Murray in this place against a candidate's wife and 2 members of the New South Wales Parliament who cannot answer back at this time because that Parliament is not in session. Now the honourable member has the hide to get up and say it again. All I say is: Let him say it outside this place. Let him have the gumption to say it outside this place and see what happens to him. He knows damn well that it he does he will have a writ around his ears in 2 seconds. What I have said indicates the low-heel shabby tactics that the Country Party will adopt at any time and that it will go to any lengths to gain shabby political mileage, whether it is in the State of New South Wales or in the Commonwealth generally. The 2 major parties in Australia, the Liberal Party and the Australian Labor Party, should do everything they can to ensure that this agrarian pressure group, this rump-1 - 
 Has the attention of the Minister for Overseas Trade been drawn to a statement by  Sir Robert  Norman,  Chairman  of the Australian Banks Export Refinance Corporation, that Australia does not need a Federal Government backed export bank? Is it a fact that Australian exporters have been missing out on export sales in the past because of the lack of an export bank? What progress is being made in implementing the Government's policy on export banking finance? 
The attitude of the Opposition to the subject of oil and minerals is obvious. Even though the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  trots into this place regularly every couple of weeks with an industry handout, the Opposition does not treat the subject seriously, as is illustrated by the fact that the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  who is one of the Opposition's most incompetent spokesmen, is the second  speaker  for the Opposition in the debate. Early in his speech the honourable member for Kennedy gave some details about the state of the mining industry in Queensland, which is the State from which he comes. He was not talking specifically about oil; he was talking specifically about minerals. Let me tell him something about Mount Isa Mines Ltd. 
Let me tell the honourable member for Kennedy something about Mount Isa Mines Ltd, which is in the electorate he represents but never lives in. This year Mount Isa Mines Ltd achieved- 
This year Mount Isa Mines achieved a net profit of $31,740,000. What was the average price at which the metals were sold? Copper was sold at $963 a ton, lead at $259 a ton and zinc at $313 a ton. By comparison Australian prices quoted on 16 November 1973 at the London Metal Exchange were $1,460 a ton for copper as against the $963 with which the money was earned, $295 a ton for lead as against $259 and $400 a ton for zinc as against $313. So the profit next year will be much greater than $31,740,000. So much for his remarks about the state of the mining industry in Queensland. 
The fact of the matter is the Opposition will do anything and come at any shabby tactic to topple the Government. As far as the Opposition is concerned the interests of the public of Australia can go to hell. Only a couple of weeks ago we had the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and members of the Liberal Party of Australia goading the Government to kick the Arabs and to refuse to sell them wheat. They were trying to do everything possible to jeopardise the flow of oil from the Middle East to Australia. But 2 years ago we saw the Leader of the Country Party come into this chamber and introduce amendments to the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act to enable the Corporation to accept liability for the sale of wheat to the Arab countries. Because the Country Party's own electoral base was in trouble and its wheat stocks declining the Country Party agreed to the sale of wheat to a market which might not pay for it. The Country Party let the Commonwealth of Australia, through the Export Payments Insurance Corporation, pick up the Lability. But what happens when the tide changes and the Country Party is in Opposition? The Leader of the Country Party walked into this place 2 weeks ago and said of the same countries in relation to the continuation of the same contracts: 'Refuse them wheat'. At the same time the honourable member for Farrer and the honourable member for Kennedy have come into this chamber and said that we ought to be looking forward to Australia's oil reserves and the continuity of supply from the Middle East. How can there be any continuity of supply from the Middle East if we offend the Middle East countries by breaking off commercial transactions we have with them for the supply of wheat? Not only that but the self-appointed industry advocate - the Leader of the Country Party - and his cohort, the honourable member for Farrer, came into this chamber a couple of weeks ago and badgered the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  because the Government wanted to acquire natural gas and condensate at the well head. They said that was a trespass upon the rights and properties of the Woodside-Burmah consortium. What they were in fact trying to do was to protect the rights of Woodside-Burmah to export gas and condensate from the North West Shelf. On the one hand they say that the Government must allow this group to export because it has spent money and explored and on the other they say that the Government has to look after Australia's domestic requirements. They say that the Government has to look after the continuity of oil and petrol supplies to Australia while at the same time allowing Woodside-Burmah to export. They should get their case clearly in their minds. The fact is that the Government has absolutely no case whatsoever to answer in terms of the conservation of oil and the continuity of supplies from the Middle East and in relation to what it does in terms of oil exploration in Australia. 
Earlier in this debate the Minister gave some figures concerning oil exploration in Australia. For the last 12 months to June 1973 a total of $79m was spent, which is the same as was spent in 1972. That means that there has been no diminution of the amount of money being spent on oil exploration in Australia. As the Minister pointed out, the reason why there has been a downturn in on-shore exploration is because the propensity for finding oil on-shore is not as great as it is for finding oil off-shore. Another factor that he mentioned, and quite properly, is that the success ratio for off-shore drilling in Australia has been unparalleled anywhere in the world. One well in every 3.5 holes drilled is almost 5 times better than any comparable area anywhere in the world. The honourable member for Farrer mentioned that a couple of weeks ago, but it did not suit his argument to mention it again in this debate. So it was conveniently forgotten. But the fact of the matter is Australia is quite self sufficient for the moment in terms of oil. 
It is true that in the aggregate we have 8 years supply. But 2 years ago, when the Australian Labor Party was in Opposition and the present Minister for Minerals and Energy was a back bench member of the Parliament, he was saying in this chamber that Australia's oil supplies are limited to 8 or 10 years and that there ought to be an increase in the exploration for oil in this country. He was the only sentry at the gate who was talking about the possibility of a restriction of the supply of fuel to the rest of the world from Arab countries. He was the only sentry at the gate who was talking about the energy crisis that could face the world and this nation. Now honourable members opposite want to hop on the bandwagon and say that the Government has failed in its responsibilities. But for this Government, the future of every motorist in Australia, of every person who enjoys heating in his home and of every industry that enjoys the use of fuel oil, natural gas and so on would be in jeopardy. The most telling point that the Minister made was that because of the administration by the honourable member for Farrer of the National Development portfolio in the days of the previous Government, through the deals the honourable member for Farrer made with the Victorian Government, the consumption of natural gas in Australia is limited to only 5.6 per cent of Australia's energy requirements, whereas in every other comparable country in the world it is 20.7 per cent. If we were supplementing our intake or our usage of petroleum with natural gas to the  ratio  that most other countries are supplementing their intake or usage we  would  not be facing these problems. The honourable member for Farrer mentioned furnace oil. It has been referred to in this House by myself and the Minister for Minerals and Energy for about 3 years. There is absolutely no reason why commercial enterprise in the city of Melbourne and the State of Victoria for the moment cannot switch across their furnaces from the firing of petroleum to the firing of natural gas. That is something that should have happened. It is something that honourable members opposite should have encouraged to happen but did not. 
So, at the moment, Australia is dependent on the Middle East for only 18 per cent of its oil consumption. Because of the heavy gravity of Middle East oil, after cracking the 5 per cent to 10 per cent of residuals is used for furnace fuel. If we were not worried about the question of furnace fuel and the need for the importation of heavy crude from the Middle East and if the honourable member for Farrer and the previous Government had encouraged industry in Australia to use natural gas for the firing of furnaces, we would not be needing Middle East crude at all. The other 12 per cent of our requirements which is imported comes from Indonesia. Together with our importation of crude from the Middle East it means that a total of 30 per cent of our requirements for crude is imported. So we are dependent on the Middle East for only 18 per cent of our oil requirements and this Government is going to encourage industry to move into natural gas for firing furnaces and boilers. Not only is the Government going to do that; as the Minister for Minerals and Energy said, the Government is also going to embark upon a program to investigate the possibility of the hydrogenation of coal to turn it into motor spirit. At the moment, the estimates are that a barrel of petrol can be produced by the hydrogenation of coal at $10.50 a barrel and it is estimated that by 1978 the price of oil in the world will be at about that figure. So by 1978 this process will be worth our while. At the moment. Australia produces 56 million tons of coal a year. We have reserves of 200,000 million tons of black coal of which 50 per cent is recoverable and about 200,000 million tons of brown coal, again 50 per cent of which is recoverable. It is quite easy for us through this process to convert a broad proportion of that coal into motor spirit. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I would have preferred to speak after the suspension of the sitting for dinner because I will have only 5 minutes to speak now. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  came in here today with his tongue very much in his cheek and talked about the Government's lack of performance in setting up the tribunal that was mentioned in the previous Government's legislation. What he failed to say was that the Australian Labor Party thought his Government's legislation was not much good, and it still thinks that is so. What the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  is doing is just extending this legislation. 
You did not say that at all. What the Treasurer is doing is extending the legislation because, more by accident than by design, it has been effective in some ways in discouraging foreign companies from wanting to be scrutinised by an agency of the Federal Government. To that extent it has been somewhat successful. But it is the Government's intention to introduce a much more far-reaching piece of legislation than that which the previous Government introduced a year ago. In fact, the introduction by the previous Government of that legislation a year ago, after 23 years in office, could easily have been described as the most cynical, sham piece of politicking that we have seen in the history of this place. After 23 years of an open-door policy in respect of the inflow of foreign capital into Australia, into all of our industries, on the eve of the election when their electoral socks were sadly sagging, honourable members opposite decided that they would do something about foreign takeovers. 
The Labor Party announced its policy in September 1972 and the previous Government cynically brought in a Bill in October 1972, just 2 weeks before the House rose and about 4 weeks before the Federal election. That shows the concern of the previous Government about the extent of foreign capital and foreign control over our industries. All we can say to that is that honourable members opposite were not very concerned until they realised that the issue of economic nationalism was such that their Parties could have been in jeopardy at the election. In a last ditch stand to save themselves they introduced this piece of very inadequate legislation. 
As the Deputy Leader of the Opposition knows, the Labor Party has been considering a number of matters connected with this question of foreign capital inflow, not the least of which has been the movements in currency variations since last year and the introduction of a comprehensive national Companies Act which ought to have been a prelude to this sort of legislation. So when that is finally introduced it will give the legislation a much firmer footing. There have been other pieces of legislation and administrative actions such as the imposition of the 25 per cent - it has now been increased to 33J per cent - deposit on the inflow of capital into Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! As. I did in relation to the previous Bill, this again is a faily narrow measure and it does not lend itself to a full range debate on the matter of foreign takeovers. It merely extends the life of the existing Act. I am just informing the honourable gentleman of that.. I ask him not to pursue much further the course he is pursuing. 
I disagree with you,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
The speech we have just heard from the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  is that of a very biased and stultified intellect. He said at the outset that his Party was totally opposed to the legislation and yet every ounce of bis argument could have been construed to mean that his Party was, in fact, a most .ardent supporter of the legislation because all of the issues he raised are reasons why this legislation ought to be carried. For his own information I would like to read a section of the editorial of that well known radical journal the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on 6 December concerning this very authority. It says: 
The Government's decision to invest some $50m in minerals exploration through a petroleum minerals authority is in principle a sensible one. It is of course a marked change from the policy of the previous Government which encouraged exploration through a range of taxation concessions and subsidies. However there was more than a little justification in  Mr Connor's  criticism of that system and the abuses necessarily associated with it. The taxation concessions in particular have become blatant tax ramps. It therefore makes sense to have the public funds involved in supporting exploration invested in a much more deliberate and selective way. 
Those are the words of the 'Sydney Morning Herald' editorial and normally that paper is a most solid supporter of the Party of the honourable member for Farrer and not of this Government. The 'Sydney Morning Herald' at times has been critical of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  but that is a sensible view that it has enunciated in that editorial and it is a view that the honourable member's Party could well take but for the fact that I am certain that the general mass of his Party is being misled by his particular biases in relation to the question of national development. 
I think it was impertinent for the honourable member for Farrer to refer in such derogatory terms to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. He said the Minister was living in the Middle Ages and that after all he was 3-score years and ten old. I do not think there is any Minister in this Government who can list such obvious achievements as can the Minister for Minerals and Energy. I say quite sincerely that there would not be many members in this place - they could be counted on one hand - who would have a better grasp of his subject than has the Minister. It ill behoves the honourable member for Farrer to speak in those terms. If he looks at a couple of well known geriatrics around town, such as a former Minister for Social Services and the former Prime Minister, he will look at people who are not only old but also incompetent and senile. 
Is the Treasurer aware that later this year the Commonwealth Bank and the other major trading banks will issue bank credit cards which will give to the people who receive those cards instant credit to the value of $300. If the credit is called on, a staggering amount of $600m will be floated into the Australian economy. Is it a fact that the rate of interest will be li per cent per month, or 18 per cent per annum, and, if the scheme goes the way intended by the banks, interest will be paid on interest making an effective rate of a usurious 21 per cent? Is it true that this money will be available for sundry items such as smallgoods, clothing and entertainment and therefore will tend to create appreciable extra demand? Would the issue of these unsolicited credit cards at usurious rates of interest have an inflationary effect contrary to current 
Government economic policy which is of limiting excessive demand? Can the Treasurer say why the Reserve Bank approved the use of the bank credit cards with all the bad features inherent in the scheme? Will he investigate the issue of these cards with a view to refusing to allow the banks to continue the scheme? 
I support the motion moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  I believe that the motion deserves the support of the House. These Bills were discussed at length in the last session of Parliament. It is foolhardy for the Opposition to suggest that they were guillotined through and that there was. not adequate debate. There was adequate debate on them. If we look at the track record of the Opposition members today we find that they are not even an Opposition's bootlace. The Opposition started off by wasting an hour on discussing whether or not the motion for the guillotine ought to be put. They wasted an hour which could have been spent in discussing the substance of the Bills. If we look at their dismal performance on the first day back we find that their great claim to fame today was to introduce a matter of public importance on postal charges. So  Her  Majesty's Opposition in this Parliament is doing a very poor job this evening. 
What the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  said a moment ago was a repetition word for word of what he said this afternoon for 15 minutes. If we have a look at his track record over the last 12 months we find that he occupied the time of this House for 14 hours last session. This is the man who cannot speak. He spoke 24 times in adjournment debates. He took 130 points of order. He was thrown out twice. He disputed the Chairman's ruling on one occasion. Yet he has the temerity to say that he does not have an opportunity to speak. Only a few moments ago an honourable member on this side of the House said that it is a service to the Parliament and to the nation to gag him and to gag him on as many occasions as possible. 
Members of the Opposition often say that this Government has taken liberties with the Standing Orders. The record of the last Parliament shows that 19 Bills were put through m 17 hours. That record has never been surpassed. In the lifetime of the 27th Parliament members of the present Opposition moved the gag 322 times. That record will never be excelled or surpassed. Tonight we are considering a motion by the Leader of the House to guillotine through the House tomorrow constitutional alteration Bills that have been outlined to the Parliament. Four of the Bills passed through this House last session with adequate debate and were debated adequately in the Senate. It ill behoves members of the Opposition to come in here and bring out crocodile tears and say that the Government is not giving them adequate time to consider these Bills. What they really want to do is to have a gripe. The Opposition cannot gripe on the substance of the Bills. There is no room for gripe there because those are Bills to put referendums before the people and to give the people a chance to decide on these issues. It is not a matter of party politics; it is a matter of giving the people a chance to decide. Rather than having a gripe on the substance of the Bills, the Opposition members gripe about the way the Leader of the House supposedly ruthlessly cuts their time out. If that is what members of the Opposition think is their role as an Opposition, they will be in Opposition for a long time. The House should dally no longer and should pass the motion moved by the Leader of the House for the guillotining of the Bills tomorrow. 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister for Services and Property. In view of the fact that legislation for the registration of political parties on ballot papers is pending, is the Minister aware of the possible confusion that could be created in the minds of electors by the constant changes in the names of political parties? If so, in view of the forthcoming Senate election, will he clarify the position 'for electors in order to avoid confusion and informal votes? 
The history of the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund iri Australia has been one of neglect by the previous Liberal-Country Party governments of its own employees. An illustration of that neglect is that the enormous surplus produced by this scheme, is in fact money which was owed to Commonwealth public servants and which was never rightfully returned to them because the Government of the day - the Liberal-Country Party Government - was not interested enough to introduce a Bill of this nature to implement a distribution after the last quinquennial investigation report of 1967, which I have here in my hand. The last distribution made by the previous Government was in 1965. Since then, of course, this money has just piled up and has earned interest. In fact, it has earned interest upon interest. Now, as a result of that, we have the staggering surplus of S70m in the Superannuation Fund. What must be brought to mind is the fact that contributors to the Fund were in fact socked too hard. 
The previous Government never made any attempt to adjust the rate of contribution to ensure that no excess would occur in the Fund or, alternatively, it never made any attempt to increase the benefits so that a more equitable distribution of the earnings of the Fund would be made. In either case, had the previous Government taken action, the surplus which is now evident in the Fund would not exist at all. The whole history of the Superannuation Fund has been one of neglect by previous Liberal-Country Party governments and, in fact, one of stinginess from the premise on which the scheme is based. This is one of the very few superannuation schemes available to public servants. (Quorum formed.) It is a sad reflection on the Opposition that it needs to refer to that provision in the Standing Orders to stop a Government supporter making a point about such an important matter as this Superannuation Fund. The point is that the previous Government never really made any attempt to cater for the benefit of Commonwealth employees. I was about to say, when I was so rudely interrupted, that this is one of the few superannuation schemes catering for public employees to which the 
Government has never made a contribution itself in match or in line with the contributions made by the contributors to the Fund. In other words the contributions to the Fund were made purely and simply by the employees themselves. No matching government contribution was made until the pension was paid at the time of someone retiring from the Commonwealth Public Service. The Commonwealth benefit was available only at the point of retirement. Had the Commonwealth payment been available to match the contributors' contributions to the Fund at the same time as those contributions were made this would have swollen the assets of the Fund and, naturally, the earning capacity of the Fund. Consequently from a greater earning capacity greater benefits would have flowed and the contributions would have been cheaper. 
A few years ago an interesting point was raised by the then honourable member for Kingsford-Smith, now the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  when he asked the Treasurer of the day,  Mr Bury,  how much money the Commonwealth would have needed to have subscribed in any number of years to have made the Commonwealth contribution equal to that of the contributions of public servants. In 1964-65 the amount the Commonwealth would have needed to have subscribed was $58m and in 1969-70, $82m. I do not have the figure for 1974 but it would be approaching $100m. Instead of $100m coming annually from the Commonwealth to match the employees' contributions to the Fund that amount is absent. All that ever has been paid by the Commonwealth is a benefit at the point of retirement. 
Another instance of the neglect by the Liberal and Country Party Government of Commonwealth employees with respect to superannuation concerns the earnings of the Fund. One of the reasons for the surplus being available under this scheme is that it was actuarily assessed that the benefits would be about 5 per cent of the investment. The Fund has been earning in excess of that rate. But compared to other superannuation schemes for public employees the performance of the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund has been dismal. Over a period of years earnings of the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund have averaged about 5.48 per cent compared with 6.36 per cent in the New South Wales superannuation scheme - a difference of almost 1 per cent. The increased earnings in New South 
Wales are not due to the imaginative investment policies of the superannuation board in New South Wales. 
Under the Superannuation Act members of the Commonwealth Superannuation Board were not limited with respect to how money was to be invested on behalf of contributors. Of the 3 members of the Board only one was a contributor representative which is why imaginative investment policies were never undertaken. As a consequence the earning capacity of the Superannuation Fund, which has assets at present of about S600m to S700m, was drastically reduced. Had the previous Government been interested in the earning capacity of the Fund, had it asked the Board to display some imagination in its investment policies and had it, in fact, subscribed money to match contributions and not at the point of retirement, Commonwealth employees would have been provided with greater benefits for a greatly reduced contribution rate. However the former Government was not interested in this matter and its members today, as an Opposition, try to stonewall this legislation which provides for the return of $70m to Commonwealth employees. The only thing wrong is that the money is being returned too late. 
In his second reading speech the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said that he did not intend to make any adjustments to contribution rates as a result of the earning capacity of the Fund. Admittedly the contribution rates could be reduced but because the Government is contemplating a new superannuation scheme the Treasurer suggested that it is reasonable not to adjust existing rates of contribution at this time. The truth of the matter is that Commonwealth employees have been socked to leg for years. The last Government, now the Opposition, has cared little about these employees. Opposition members are now crying a few crocodile tears because the Government seeks to distribute this surplus. I remind the House that the former Government never bothered about the superannuation scheme because there was no provision for government contributions to match employee contributions. There was only a government benefit at the point of retirement. The investment policies of the Superannuation Board were unimaginative in producing an investment return of only 5.48 per cent. If any commercial organisation had a superannuation fund returning only 5.48 per cent the managers of that fund would get sacked smartly. The former Government was prepared to see the situation continue year in and year out. Investments were being made by the Board to companies which, I believe, were getting the benefit of Commonwealth employees' money at a cheap rate of interest; certainly not at the market rate which investments were earning at that time. How much money was being invested in semi-government authority loans because this was regarded as a safe and easy way for the Board to make investments? This reflects the complete disdain with which the last Government treated Commonwealth employees with respect to superannuation. This Bill is the forerunner of a new scheme. I am not able to say when that scheme will be introduced. 
I do not know. I am not a member of Cabinet and it is not a decision for me to make. The main point is that this legislation gives back to Commonwealth public servants money they should not have paid in the first place. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I will canvass a couple of issues in the 4 minutes remaining in this debate. The Opposition cavils at the concept of the Bill, but in fact the concept of it was approved by the people at the 1972 election, because the content of the Bill was announced by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  when he was then Leader of the Opposition, in his policy speech in Blacktown in 1972. So while honourable members opposite can raise a technical point about some narrow legalistic interpretation of the extent of the legislation, the intent of the legislation is to maximise Australian equity. As the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has said, the main purpose of the Bill is to explore for and develop our petroleum and mineral resources and to assist in implementing the Government's policy of promoting Australian ownership and control of our natural resources and resource industries. Earlier in the second reading debate the Minister informed the House that the Canadian Government now is establishing a national petroleum corporation to do precisely the same things as the proposed Petroleum and Minerals Authority will do. 
As the honourable member for Hawker has just said, Indonesia is in the same position, as also is Norway which has a similar authority to the proposed Petroleum and Minerals Authority. This is a Bill for an Act which was approved of by the people, for which this Government had a clear mandate and for which the Opposition, for reasons best known to its selfish self, has decided to oppose in the Senate. There is the prospect of a double dissolution, and the passage of this Bill through the House of Representatives, if the Bill is again rejected by the Senate, will qualify it for a pass in the event of a joint sitting of the 2 Houses of the Parliament, should the Labor Party be returned after the election in the same position as it is in now. Of course, I am confident that we will control not only the House of Representatives but also the Senate, and that a joint sitting will not be required. But in the event that the parties are returned in much the same position as they are in today, at least under those circumstances the passage of this legislation through the House this evening will enable us to enact this Bill as an Act, and Australia will not be left behind as the Liberal and Country Parties would like to see happen. In fact, we will have a Petroleum and Minerals Authority which can maximise our own resources. 
The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  speaks as if the concept of this Bill is an anathema to him and, of course, it has no equal anywhere in the world. But he never mentions the fact that a lot of the explorers in Australia, representing a lot of the multi-national companies like Exxon which is represented here by Esso and the other companies, go to Indonesia on the basis that they are allowed to explore for oil and find what they can. But then they are scrutinised by the Indonesian Government and if it so chooses it can pay them 40 per cent of their exploration costs and demand a 50 per cent equity in the companies. Then not only does the Indonesian Government get a 50 per cent equity in the companies, but it also gets taxation on the other 50 per cent of the equity which is owned by the exploring companies. The companies are happy to go there. 
What we are saying is that we are not able to get into the big league and develop our own resources while we have a position where we are hamstrung because of the fact that in Australia only multi-national companies have explored these leases of enormous area that have been given to them. I think that in the case of Woodside-Burmah the leases contained an area of 142,000 square miles, and something like 40 holes were drilled in that area of 142,000 square miles. That is infinitesimal and puny drilling in an exploration program. How can we possibly develop our resources with this sort of behaviour? So we need Australian-- 
Is the Minister for Overseas Trade aware of the forebodings by some sections of the business community in Australia about the Australian balance of trade position? Can the Minister give any projections on the growth of imports into Australia in the next 12 months and also give a projection of the growth in exports from the primary, secondary and extractive industry areas, together with an assessment of the impact that an increase in imports will have on our balance of trade position? Will the Minister also inform the House what other factors arise in the balance of payments position from invisibles? 
The speech we have just heard by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr  Luchetti)  - That is not so. It is quite proper for the chair to see either side and in this particular case I saw the honourable member for Blaxland. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party will withdraw that remark. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - I am glad that that has been corrected. The honourable member will withdraw that remark. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I call the honourable member for Blaxland. 
The speech we have just heard by the Leader of the Australian Country Party is the type of speech I would expect from him as an apologist for foreign owned interests in this country. It is similar to the speeches that were made in this place 50 years ago by the likes of his predecessor  Sir Earle  Page and Stanley Melbourne Bruce when they were defending importing interests against fledgling secondary industries in Australia. Now we have the same argument again on the basis of whether we ought to have Australian ownership and control of our extractive industries or whether we should have predominant foreign control of our extractive industries. From the way that the Leader of the Country Party speaks, it is clear that he presumes that it is unheard of for any government corporation to be active in the fields of minerals and energy. He seems to forget a few notable examples, not the least being the Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd which a Labor Government set up and which, 32 years later in 1952, a government of his ilk disbanded. Who knows, had it not been disbanded then the Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd may have had a premier role in all oil and hydrocarbon exploration and production in this country. But it was abandoned. Similarly, the Bureau of Mineral Resources was drilling for oil in the 1950s and the rigs were sold to Wapet, which found oil in 1954. 
This is another example of the attitude of the Liberal and Country Parties to any government initiatives in the field of energy. One can go to any number of overseas countries for similar examples. Italy has the famous Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi Organisation which searches for all hydrocarbons and minerals, not only in Europe but also throughout the world. It markets its fuel under the organisation known as AGIP. Britain has the British Petroleum organisation which has a majority ownership by the British Government. It also searches and mines for minerals and hydrocarbons and markets them. France, Norway, Canada, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, South America, Iran, Iraq, Japan, New Zealand and many other countries have government owned corporations in the energy field. 
Yet the Liberal and Country Parties want to deny us as Australians the right to have a similar corporation operating in Australia's interests. To illustrate exactly how far out of step the Leader of the Country Party is with the more progressive conservative interests in Australia I should like to remind the Committee of a quote from a speech by the Victorian Premier,  Mr Hamer,  which the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  gave yesterday. Speaking to a group in London last Thursday  Mr Hamer  said that he did not think we would ever see the day again when there is foreign investment in any part of Australia on an unrestricted basis. To make the Leader of the Country Party squirm even further, he said: 
As far as the Federal Government is concerned, they have indicated that their policy in the energy field is 100 per cent Australian ownership. That indicates it is unlikely they would permit the importation of foreign capital to exploit energy resources anywhere in Australia. That's that. We would not want it any different either. 
They are the words of the Victorian Liberal Premier. How out of step is the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  with his Victorian colleague. How much does this illustrate the complete lackey attitude of the Leader of the Country Party and that lobby organisation, the Australian Country Party, to the foreign-owned companies operating in Australia? When the Leader of the Country Party took this issue, along with other issues, to the Australian people at the last election, the Australian people judged him to be what he was and what is Party is - an apologist for foreign-owned mining companies. So he now takes the other tack in this House. Today he is all sweet reason, and gives us examples of the Norwegian model in the North Sea exploration off the coast of Britain. But he talks about leases for exploration areas. I remind the Leader of the Country Party that we had what he called a graticular system in Australia where an area was subdivided into 9 equal parts and private companies had the right to explore 5 of the parts. The other 4 parts reverted to the Government. Yet that system, where there could have been bidding for the 5 portions which were to go to private enterprise, was tipped over by the administration of which he was a Minister and in which he had a dominant influence. It was tipped over for a miserable 1  i  per cent royalty across the board. So sweet reason does not hold up after any scrutiny of the record of the lousy administration of the Liberal and Country Parties when they were in office. 
Wherever honourable members may look there is no record of achievement on the part of the Liberal Party or the Country Party in the field of minerals and energy, other than on behalf of foreign mining corporations. The Leader of the Country Party described this legislation as a naked socialist instrument. Rather, it is a statutory corporation able to operate independently by itself or in joint ventures or partnership with appropriate commercial interests. Present world economy distortion will flow from the over-dependence of some of the world's largest industrial nations on imported crude oil from the OPEC countries whose trade surplus could increase from $US7 billion to SUS65 billion from higher crude oil prices. (Quorum formed). The calling of a quorum is a device employed by the Country Party to stop me speaking or so that I will run out of time. Members of the Country Party cannot bear to hear any cogent arguments against their own faulty position. What has the Opposition ever done? It has obstructed every sensible move that this Government has made to give Australia control over its petroleum exploration and its production. It has opposed the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill whenever it has been presented to this House. It has said that the Government of Australia has no right to legislate in relation to the off-shore areas of Australia. The Opposition wants to see that power reside with the States so that corrupt city-State governments like the Queensland Government can let the contracts to private companies. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The time allotted for the Committee stage has expired. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The speech by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  was motivated by the muddled thinking of the Australian Country Party. One of the disasters of this national Parliament is that for many years important areas like the extractive industries in Australia have been governed by this agrarian pressure group, this team of backwoods hillbillies, the Country Party. It has been involved, right down to the grass roots, in all the previous decisions affecting the mining industry, because that is where its election campaign funds have come from. This Government has called a halt to that. 
To decipher the speech that was made a few moments ago, for those who are interested, I will give some history of the matters involved. On 16 April 1970 the Gorton Government introduced the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. The primary role of the Bill was to assert the sovereignty of the Commonwealth of Australia over the off-shore areas of Australia from the 3-mile mark to the limit of the territorial sea. That Bill arose from a decision of the High Court of Australia in the now famous Bonser v. La Macchia case. In the judgment of the High Court the Chief Justice,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, said: 
The States never had sovereignty over off-shore waters to the 3-mile limit either as colonies or as states. 
In other words, in his view, it was within the Commonwealth's domain to have control of the off-shore areas of Australia. Before the Gorton Government decided to introduce that Bill, a joint Commonwealth-State Act called the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act covered exploration in Australia's off-shore areas. But it was a botch-up right from the start, and all that we have seen are abuses of what ought to have been a reasonable exploration policy developed by the State governments and the Commonwealth governments under that Act. The Gorton Government, to give it credit, said: 'We will not have any more of this. The Commonwealth of Australia does have constitutional power to legislate in respect of the off-shore, and we will assert that power through the Territorial Sea and Contitnental Shelf Bill'. The then Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  said in a letter to the Australian Mining Industry Council in March of 1970: 
As to off-shore minerals other than petroleum, the Commonwealth is of the view that it should proceed on the footing that it enjoys total rights outside the 3-mile limit. It proposes to legislate in pursuance of this position. 
Honourable members will recall that at that time the rotten borough administrations of the Liberal and Country Parties in the States said: This is no good. We don't want control of the off-shore going to Canberra'. How could Bjelke-Petersen rort the off-shore of Queensland if control of it was in Canberra? How could  Sir Charles  Court rort the Western Australian situation if control was in Canberra? How could any of these little State governments - and a lot of them city State governments - rort the off-shore of the extractive industries if the off-shore areas were controlled by Canberra? So they put on a blue. The result was that the Liberal Party had a crisis of confidence within its own ranks and nearly brought its own Prime Minister down on a no confidence motion in this House. That was Prime Minister Gorton. Five months later he fell as Prime Minister. The reason he was deposed was that his government wanted to pursue this question of sovereignty for the Australian Parliament. 
The Bill died then. When the Labor Government came to office we resurrected it and revamped it into what is now called the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill. It was in 2 parts. The first part declared that the Commonwealth of Australia had power off-shore and the second part was a mining code which would allow for the physical mining of the area after the declaration of sovereignty. That Bill has been through the Parliament 3 times. It has been carried by the House of Representatives on 3 occasions. It has been rejected in the Senate twice, but on the third occasion it was passed with an amendment, the amendment being the deletion of the mining code. The Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill which we have before us today under its separate title was originally part of the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill. The Senate destroyed that Bill by agreeing to that amendment, because it realised that without the mining code the declaratory Part I of the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill was powerless. Even though the Bill was passed into legislation in its emasculated form it has allowed the matter to be tested in the High Court so that once and for all a decision on jurisdiction can be made. But in the meantime mining cannot be controlled because there is no mining code. 
What we are introducing here today is a mining code. It was criticised by the honourable member for Kennedy in the most vague of terms. He referred to some of the provisions in this Bill. Similar provisions exist in any Bill. Of course you have to have a bureaucracy to administer the massive offshore area of Australia. Unless there was a bureaucratic arrangement to administer this legislation, how else would the honourable member propose to grant exploration leases and finally production leases across the whole length and breadth of the boundaries of the coastline of Australia? Of course we have to have these things. We can see similar provisions in the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. 
We will carry this Bill in this House because the Government has the numbers in this House, and I am confident that it will be carried in the Senate also. It will then allow the mining industry of which the honourable member for Kennedy spoke to get into some of the areas that it should have been allowed to explore many years ago. This Bill provides for the setting up of a graticular system, something which the Opposition gave away years ago, something which it abandoned under the stewardship of the former Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer. Clause 11 of this Bill provides that the surface of the earth shall be deemed to be divided up by what is known as a graticular system into areas each one minute of arc of latitude by one minute of arc of longitude, which gives each block an area of approximately 1.15 square miles. If we have those blocks it is possible to administer the Act so that some can be pushed out for exploration, some can go to production, while others can revert back to the Commonwealth at the appropriate time. We have a basic unit of area to work with. That is something which the former Government abandoned. Under the old graticular system four-ninths were to revert to the Commonwealth. The former Government abandoned the four-ninths which the Commonwealth would have retrieved from leasing agreements in return for a miserable 14- per cent increase in royalty. That was another give-away in the days of the Liberal-Country Party administration. 
The honourable member for Kennedy also referred in hazy terms to the reconnaissance authority. I will tell the House something about that. The general scheme of the legislation contemplates a 2-stage system of title. The first stage of the scheme may be preceded by a reconnaissance authority which, when granted, will, subject to other existing titles, confer upon the holder a non-exclusive right for a period not exceeding 12 months to search for all minerals in the block specified by methods set out in the authority. This will allow for basic exploration. The actual first stage then is an exploration permit which will confer an exclusive right on the permitee to explore for minerals specified in the permit and carry on approved operations and execute approved works in the permit area. The second stage is a production licence which is broadly the equivalent of a mining lease on land and covers further exploration for specified minerals and their recovery. 
What is the big hassle about this concept of a reconnaissance authority? The honourable member for Kennedy suggests that there is something improper about it. There is nothing improper about it. It is a perfectly sensible, reasonable piece of legislation. But the Opposition, for miserable political advantage, wishes to try to kill it again. The honourable member talked about what  Sir Gordon  Chalk has obtained for the mining industry in Queensland and what the Opposition has done for the coal industry. It has done nothing. That is the truth. This Government has obtained increases in the price of coal. The present Minister for Minerals and Energy is the first Minister in this Parliament ever to say to the major purchasing nations of minerals and energy from this country 'We will meet you on a collective basis.' This Government has obtained massive increases in the price of coal since it became the Government. It has obtained massive increases in the price of iron ore. But for the success of the Minister for Minerals and Energy not half of the iron ore projects in Western Australia would have been continued, as the devaluation of the American dollar by 22 per cent rendered the industry uneconomic. 
The mining industry was foolish enough to write all its contracts in terms of United States dollars, thus effectively downgrading its in come by 22 per cent. The Minister for Minerals and Energy got that income back. He renegotiated clauses of the contracts. It was the Minister for Minerals and Energy who achieved that, not the mining industry. The mining industry came on the scene after the hard work had been done. Certainly the hillbillies on the other side of the House could not be capable of such negotiations. Can honourable members imagine the honourable member for Kennedy doing that? Can they imagine the honourable member for Kennedy facing up to the Nippon iron and steel organisation and trying to secure a price increase? It would eat him for breakfast. 
The honourable member for Kennedy cannot speak in derogatory terms about the Minister for Minerals and Energy. He has brought to this nation an awareness of the might of Australia's extractive industries. The Government said: Australia intends to be an honest trading partner. We are willing sellers and we expect people to be willing buyers. We expect to sell on reasonable terms. We have achieved those terms. The former Government did not do so. It never achieved anything. All it ever did was to sell Australia's resources overseas at well below world parity prices across the board. 
The activities of corrupt rotten borough State governments which we have under Liberal-Country Party administrations - a classic example is the State Government of Queensland at the moment - will cease if the control of Australia's offshore mineral resources is under the Federal Parliament and, if honourable members like, a federal bureaucracy. I do not move away from the word. Honourable members opposite talk about bureaucratic machinations. What is wrong with the Australian Parliament asserting itself to get for Australia what it can from our mineral and energy resources? The problem seems to be the frightening word 'bureaucracy'. Because honourable members opposite mention bureaucracy, we are supposed to run away. But who runs these affairs in the States? It is a pity that the bureaucracy did not run them there. The trouble is that they are run by the multi-national companies, the State Premiers and the State Ministers. They can be bought almost for the price of a meal. That is the reality of the situation. We will not tolerate this second class situation. We are here to legislate on behalf of the Australian people. No amount of party political prejudice on the part of honourable members opposite will stop us. 
The declaratory provisions of the Seas and Submerged Lands Act have been carried by the Parliament. The Act will come before the High Court and honourable members know what the High Court will say. I believe the High Court will approve the legislation. It will say that the Federal Parliament does have power to introduce this legislation. 
 How do I know? Does the honourable member wish to read these judgments here? Why do you not do a bit of work instead of talking off the cuff? Why do you not read a few judgments? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Giles)Order! The honourable member has enjoyed a little licence - I do not mind that - but I would appreciate it if, every now and again, he would address his remarks to the Chair. 
Well, you deal with the interjections. 
I ask the Treasurer: Why did the Government permit the Reserve Bank of Australia to allow the certificates of deposit issued by the trading banks to reach such absurd levels in the last 6 months? Why, in the latter part of last year and in the early part of this year, did the Government permit the Reserve Bank to allow the trading banks to move into speculative investment loans whereby a liquidity crisis arose only to be covered by certificates of deposit at high rates of interest? Why was the bond rate moved to 
II per cent to reinforce the general level of interest created by the absurd level that was being paid for certificates of deposit? 
I rise tonight to rebut a few of the extravagant claims made by some members of the Opposition about the emoluments provided by this Government for members of the Parliament. Quite blatant attacks have been made upon the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in relation to some of the conditions which he has obtained for honourable members since he has been Leader of the House and the Minister responsible for improving the lot of honourable members in this place. It is a sad fact that it was the policy of the Liberal-Country Party Government, when it was in government in this country, particularly under Prime Minister Menzies, to keep the salaries, emoluments and conditions of members of Parliament at an appallingly low level. This was done because members of those parties - some of them anyhow - believed they were born to rule, the landed gentry with private incomes, able to come to this place and not need the emoluments that were given to them. They expected to become Ministers within a couple of years of arriving here. Why should they encourage anyone, they believed, from the middle classes to come here via the Labor Party, make this his profession, embark upon a career and receive a salary and emoluments befitting a member of the national Parliament. It has always been their conscious policy to keep down the emoluments, standards of accommodation and working conditions so that professional people and others in the Labor Party would not be attracted to the Parliament. They had the view that by so doing they would keep the standard of the landed gentry high in this place and that the only people who would be attracted to the Labor Party would be those who thought that a politician's salary was great and who were receiving a lower salary before they came here. Of course, that plan falls down because people come to this place for reasons other than their own pecuniary benefit. They come here because of their interest in politics and in improving the lot of the Australian people. 
But let us talk specifically about what this Government has done to improve the lot of members of Parliament since it has taken office. I came to the Parliament in 1969, 5 years ago. In those days Parliament House was particularly impoverished. My first 3 years were spent in a small room with another honourable member. We almost had to go outside the room to turn around. Some rooms had 3 and 4 honourable members occupying them, yet the Liberal-Country Party Government had no plans to improve substantially the accommodation in the building. This has been improved since we have been in government. We could not use the Commonwealth car pool readily. We were allowed to use a car to come to Parliament House, but we could not use a car to go to Canberra city. We could not leave the building. We could not ask for a car unless we wanted to go to the chemist or to a doctor or for some such dire reason. Honourable members had to stand outside and wait for a bus, while Minister's secretaries moved all around Canberra in black Commonwealth cars. At one time we did not have a photo-copying machine. We had to put forward quite a lot of arguments before we got photo-copying machines from the Liberals, and the ones that we got were the worst variety obtainable. They would make only one copy at a time. Those machines have now been replaced. We now have machines that make multiple copies. These machines are provided for the use of honourable members in their electorate offices. Honourable members now have electric typewriters which they never had before. Previously we had the old clattertraps that used to vary by one-eighth of an inch in a line of type. We had those machines for many years. None of the office equipment was up to modern standards. The Minister for Services and Property has supplied all honourable members with dictaphones. Since this Government took office we have been granted a stamp allowance of $240 a year. We have had a substantial increase in secretarial assistance. Generally the lot of honourable, members has been improved. 
The other night the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  attacked the Minister for Services and property. He particularly has been very well looked after since he has been here. During the last Parliament he had justifiable concern in relation to his future as a member because of the nature of his electorate. The former parliamentary retiring allowance scheme did not provide a retirement benefit for a man under 45 years of age. This meant that because of the nature of his electorate the honourable member would probably never be entitled to a pension. Since this Government came into office that scheme has been amended to provide that a parliamentary pension be paid to a member of Parliament who has served for 3 parliaments, the age qualification was disregarded. He was the one honourable member on the other side of the House who benefited specifically from that provision, yet he has the temerity to launch an attack on the Government. 
-Mr Acting  Chairman,  I have listened on four occasions now to members of the Opposition harangue the Government and particularly offend the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  He is the one person that has turned back the tide on this question of minerals and energy to allow Australians to keep their foot on their own heritage which has been slipping away slowly under successive Liberal-Country Party governments. Yet the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  comes in again, sounding more like a third-rate businessman addressing an Apex Club than the  Deputy  Leader of a major party addressing the national Parliament of Australia. This Bill which has raised so much opposition from the Liberal and Country Parties is designed so that we may explore and develop the petroleum and mineral resources in Australia and to permit the maximum ownership and control of Australia's natural resources. What it will mean in fact is that future generations of Australians will be able to preserve the national wealth and heritage which rightfully belongs to them. Ours is the one country that has never done anything positive about preserving our national wealth or having an organisation able to do it. 
I have listened so often in the Senate to those lackeys of foreign interests,  Senator Durack  and  Senator Webster.  I have sat in the President's Gallery over there unable to say anything about it as they came into their House with the briefs handed to them by the foreign mining companies. They should be ashamed to show thenfaces as members of the Australian Parliament. They are on the wave length of only one group in this community- the Australian Mining Industry Council which is 85 per cent foreign controlled because 69 of the 93 companies in it are foreign companies. It is the one group in Australia to which the Liberal and Country Parties are attuned. Even the Australian Petroleum Exploration Authority has deserted it and this week has said it will support the Australian Government in getting this proposal through. 
The Opposition members are critical of this proposed Petroleum and Minerals Authority for one reason and one reason only: It will damage the foreign interests which they support. Who would deny this public corporation the right to gather technical and entrepreneurial expertise in the fields of minerals and energy for trie public benefit? Who would deny Trans-Australia Airlines or Qantas Airways Limited their roles in aviation? Who would deny the Commonwealth Banking Corporation its right as a statutory banking corporation in Australia? Who would deny the Petroleum and Minerals Authority its rightful role as a statutory corporation in milling and exploration of Australia's mineral wealth? No one should deny it- least of all members of the Australian Parliament One does not have to look very far to find parallels to these corporations. Italy has its ENI, which is primarily concerned with the pursuit and production of hydrocarbons; Britain has its BP; and the Minister for Minerals and Energy mentioned in his speech many other countries which have organisations similar to this Petroleum and Minerals Authority. 
The Opposition talks about the public expenditure which this Authority will use in so-called risk ventures. When he first introduced the Bill the Minister said the Authority would be financed from moneys saved under sections 77C, 77D and 78 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, which were repealed last year by this Government. The Government has been expending $47m a year on this hopeless concession. This is the way this Authority will be financed. If the Liberal and Country Parties want to talk about what the foreign companies and the mining companies have done for us in Australia, I invite them to look at the report from the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange- the Rae Committee report. The  Chairman, Senator Rae,  is one of their members. If honourable members read that chapter of the report dealing with Minerals Securities Australia Ltd they will find that section 77C, the section which is supposedly supporting mining in this country and giving an impetus to exploration, was used for a very shabby purpose- for speculation in stocks purchased and operated by Minerals Securities Australia Ltd and as a tax evasion technique to increase the asset value of that company. I have in front of me an extract from the Rae Committee's report. It shows that in 1966 Mineral Securities made a profit of $161,000 and paid no tax. It was able to claim the whole profit as a deduction because under section 77 moneys subscribed to new mining issues are completely tax deductible. It moved its profit across into a completely new company which it had formed, received a deduction for it and paid no tax. 
In 1967 it made a profit of $1,584,000 and aid no tax. The next year it made a profit of 1,423,000 and paid no tax. The next year it made a profit of $12,707,000 and paid $61,000 in tax; that is all the tax it paid on a profit of $ 12.7m. There was a cumulative effect. As it made further profits it had to put money into another company to get the deduction. How was it able to get its own capital out? It invested in shares at $1 each, speculated on the market, manipulated the market, got the shares up to $5 or $6 each and then sold out. In that way it was able to tear out its capital and have 60 per cent of the company- 50 per cent financed by deductions under section 77 and 10 per cent financed by the Australian public through share and market speculation. When the market finally collapsed its game collapsed. But all in all it raked $ 1 5.8m of the $47m per annum concession under section 77. That is just one case which is referred to in the Rae Committee's report. That was happening across the board.  Mr Fitzgerald  pointed out in his report that only 27 per cent of the section 77 deductions was going to genuine, legitimate mining search. That is what the Opposition's Committee found. The Opposition cannot dispute those figures. It cannot say that the Fitzgerald report was a rort. 
I will tell the honourable member for Cowper who  Mr Fitzgerald  is. The Fitzgerald report is the most significant report to have been presented to this Parliament in the last 3 years. He is a respected economic journalist. He was commissioned by the Minister for Minerals and Energy in the early part of this year to inquire into the benefit derived by Australia from the mining industry. It happened that, unbeknown to the Government, the report was ready when the last election came on. The Opposition tried to can it on the basis that it was a political stunt. It is the most devastating document ever to be presented to the Australian Parliament. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  referred to it today. Talking specifically about Hamersley Holdings Ltd- the famous iron ore developer in Western Australia- he was able to show conclusively that the tax payable by such companies is payable at a very minimum. In fact, mining companies in Australia enjoy the very honoured distinction of being able to write off not only capital equipment as a depreciation but also the infrastructure of towns and buildings. So the towns which they have built and of which the Opposition speaks have all been a complete tax deduction. Against all its profits for the first 6 years of its operations Hamersley wrote off every deduction that it had. The Western Australian Government kept increasing the ore body that Hamersley had. Every time that it asked for an extension of its lease it was granted additional areas. Which of the world's major trading banks would not lend money to a company which had an established mining operation and which was getting new mineral leases that were proved to have the best grade of iron ore in the world? Of course it was just a joke 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister told the House that of the $ 1 , 1 32m in declared profits of rnining companies in the 4 years from 1967 to 1971 the take to the Government of Australia was minus $40m; in other words, we paid out $40m in 4 years to let the mining companies earn $1, 132m. Of that amount 80 per cent was repatriated overseas. So we had the ludicrous position where the previous Liberal-Country Party Government was allowing the Australian tax laws to be used to subsidise profit that was ultimately payable to foreigners. That is what honourable members and senators opposite did when they were in government; yet they have the hide to call themselves Australians and to ridicule the Minister for Minerals and Energy. They ought to be on their knees and thankful for having a man of his competence in this place. 
Let us talk about the Opposition's approach to things. It says that the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill is a piece of socialist legislation. I will admit that the Authority is not there to compete with private enterprise. It is there to look after the national interests of Australia. We will go into partnership with private enterprise. I presume that the Authority will do that in the national interests. The Opposition has said that Australians are incapable of making investment decisions. I will tell the House something about the famous Hamerlsey deal. When Hamersley was first conceived by Lang Hancock- I give him credit for recognising a decent investment potentialand he approached the Liberal-Country Party Government of Australia, it closed the door in his face. He went to the Australian trading banks and they closed the door in his face. Finally, the only people he could interest in this enormous project in the Pilbara was the Kaiser Steel Corporation of the United States of America and Riotinto Zinc Corporation of the United Kingdom. Their original and only investment in Hamersley, which is now capitalised at $672m, was $45m. Their original loan was for $80m from the banks in the City of London. To show the magnitude of that investment I point out that the Commonwealth Employees Superannuation Fund invests $45m every year. 
Members of the Opposition have spoken about the massive Pilbara developments. It involved $22. 5m from each company. Are members of the Opposition saying that Australians cannot recognise a decent investment decision? Are they saying that Australians cannot raise money on the Australian capital market? They ought to be ashamed of themselves because what they are saying is that only foreigners are able to make decent investment decisions and that is not so. I will tell the House a little more about Hamersley. Of the $674m raised by Hamersley $550m was raised on the Australian capital market. The Australian public is the largest saving public in the world. Australians have the record of being the greatest savers in the world. Any of the statistics which are available will substantiate that. We have enough capital in this nation to finance any sizable national investment project. 
What this Petroleum and Minerals Authority will do is guard decent prospects for Australian companies. When the areas of the north west shelf are returned to the people of Australia under the agreement they will come back to the Petroleum and Minerals Authority which will enter into joint ventures with decent companieswhether they be Australian or overseas- to make sure that the benefit comes back to the people of Australia. To that extent the Petroleum and Minerals Authority will be a regulatory body but it will gather its own geological expertise, its own entrepreneurial expertise and we will be able to deal with any of the major energy companies of the world because we will have a body competent to do so. I do not slight the Department of Minerals and Energy or the Bureau of Mineral Resources, but they were not designed or equipped to handle this particular job. We need an authority, like the Petroleum and Minerals Authority, to do it. Through this Authority we will be capable of identifying good investments, of encouraging Australians to take part, and of guaranteeing loans for them and getting genuine Australian investors interested in what are genuine national development projects. That is something that the Opposition never did when it was in government. 
We have often heard the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the former Prime Minister, the honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  say how we are scaring foreign capital and pushing all the mining companies away. I ask them to answer this question: If a company is able to recover its initial costs of setting up a mine and a development as a complete tax deduction against its immediate profits- it sets up its operation from nothingand it has an enormous ore body lasting, at the same rate at which Hamersley will extract ore, for 1 75 years, do they not think that that is a better investment than any manufacturing industry or any tertiary industry in the world? The company has its operation costs covered. It has a massive ore body and it has an increment every year in the price of its product. It will reap a return of thousands upon thousands of per cent from the investment. This Government will say- I hope the Petroleum and Minerals Authority and the future governments of Australia will say- 'Thus far and no further. You have made enough. We will not let you rape and plunder our country. We want what is rightfuly available to the people of this nation and to future generations of Australians. We want our rightful slice of the cake. And we will get it.' We are not going to be put off any more by these arguments that foreigners alone should invest in Australia. 
The Opposition referred to the original investment of $45 m in Hamersley and to massive capital raisings. The Esso-BHP group raised twothirds of its capital on the Australian capital market. And what have we paid for? Where is the rip-off there? The rip-off is there for the group's so-called expertise. The Petroleum and Minerals Authority will be able to employ whom it likes. We can buy the best geologists in the world; we can buy the best mining engineers in the world; we can buy the best reservoir engineers in the world and we can buy the expertise we like. We do not have to pay for it. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was speaking on the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill which is a Bill designed to explore for and to develop Australia's petroleum and mineral resources. During my remarks I referred to the Rae and Fitzgerald reports which dealt with minerals and petroleum in Australia. I did so much to the chagrin of members of the Opposition. The establishment of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority is not a singular policy of this Government. It is part of a package which was developed by the Minister for Minerals and Energy as part of a total energy budget and program for the development of the minerals and petroleum industry in Australia. 
The Government has been consistent in the policy approaches that it has taken. In the case of natural gas we have instituted since we have been in office a national pipeline grid which will supply people across the nation. We have introduced a Seas and Submerged Lands Bill to guarantee the sovereignty of the national Government of Australia over the offshore areas of Australia for the benefit of all Australians; to put a policy for the offshore development of our petroleum resources where it fairly belongs- in the national Parliament and not on the parliaments of the States. We have developed and are developing a uranium policy to guarantee the proper development of uranium in this country. Already the Minister has been vindicated in his statements that previous contracts were signed at below what were world parity prices. In the 18 months that we have been in office we as a Government have seen the price of uranium doubled and the contracts that were written and hailed by the Opposition as being of great achievement in 1972 look rather puny against the prices which are being paid on the world market today. 
In the field of minerals the Minister has gained major increases in the price of iron ore. Through his government to government relations we have gained an 1 8 per cent increase in the price of iron ore to compensate for the revaluation of the Australian dollar relative to the American dollar. The Minister again has set the climate for Australian negotiators representing Australian iron ore companies to go to Japan next month to seek further price increases. Since this Government has come to office the Minister has increased dramatically the price of coal. Australia is now securing world parity prices for coal where 18 months ago we were about 25 per cent below what was available in the world. 
We have proper relations with Japan, our major trading partner, on a government to government basis as willing sellers to willing buyers. The previous Liberal- Country Party governments had our iron ore and coal producers stringing along to Japan one after the other and being picked off and played off against each other. The Minister has now taught these producers to barter on a negotiated basis. He has taught them what collective strength means. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the Minister for Minerals and Energy and other senior Ministers went to Japan last year and paved the way for a better relationship with our major trading partner. 
Of course, the people who are most upset are members of the Australian Country Party, the people who are most interested in the pork barrel; the people who claim to speak for rural industries but really want to represent the wealthy foreign owned mining companies in Australia. Very shortly we will see Doug Anthony House next to John McEwen House if the Australian people are foolish enough to let the Liberal and Country Parties have another crack at the title. We are interested in the wealth and well being of the Australian community, not the sectional interests of an agrarian rump- the Country Party- which will sell out to any interest to meet its own shabby political purposes. The Leader of the Country Party (  Mr Anthony)  during the last election talked about an increase of $6 a barrel in the price of oil in this country. He is now called 'double price Doug'. He wants to send the price of oil up by another $6 a barrel. Such a move would increase the take to the likes of Esso-BHP which made a profit in petroleum of over $43m last year, to a profit of $966m a year in oil. That is what the Country Party proposed; that is what they were prepared to force upon the Australian consumer and the Australian motorist. May I conclude by congratulating the Minister for Minerals and Energy on his foresight in introducing what is a most far reaching and worth while piece of legislation. He has been the exclusive architect of the Labor Party's minerals and energy policy. 
-Mr Acting  Chairman,  I have listened on four occasions now to members of the Opposition harangue the Government and particularly offend the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  He is the one person that has turned back the tide on this question of minerals and energy to allow Australians to keep their foot on their own heritage which has been slipping away slowly under successive Liberal-Country Party governments. Yet the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  comes in again, sounding more like a third-rate businessman addressing an Apex Club than the  Deputy  Leader of a major party addressing the national Parliament of Australia. This BUI which has raised so much opposition from the Liberal and Country Parties is designed so that we may explore and develop the petroleum and mineral resources in Australia and to permit the maximum ownership and control of Australia's natural resources. What it will mean in fact is that future generations of Australians will be able to preserve the national wealth and heritage which rightfully belongs to them. Ours is the one country that has never done anything positive about preserving our national wealth or having an organisation able to do it. 
I have listened so often in the Senate to those lackeys of foreign interests,  Senator Durack  and  Senator Webster.  I have sat in the President's Gallery over there unable to say anything about it as they came into their House with the briefs handed to them by the foreign mining companies. They should be ashamed to show their faces as members of the Australian Parliament. They are on the wave length of only one group in this community- the Australian Mining Industry Council which is 85 per cent foreign controlled because 69 of the 93 companies in it are foreign companies. It is the one group in Australia to which the Liberal and Country Parties are attuned. Even the Australian Petroleum Exploration Authority has deserted it and this week has said it will support the Australian Government in getting this proposal through. 
The Opposition members are critical of this proposed Petroleum and Minerals Authority for one reason and one reason only: It will damage the foreign interests which they support. Who would deny this public corporation the right to gather technical and entrepreneurial expertise in the fields of minerals and energy for the public benefit? Who would deny Trans-Australia Airlines or Qantas Airways Limited their roles in aviation? Who would deny the Commonwealth Banking Corporation its right as a statutory banking corporation in Australia? Who would deny the Petroleum and Minerals Authority its rightful role as a statutory corporation in mining and exploration of Australia's mineral wealth? No one should deny it- least of all members of the Australian Parliament. One does not have to look very far to find parallels to these corporations. Italy has its ENI, which is primarily concerned with the pursuit and production of hydrocarbons; Britain has its BP; and the Minister for Minerals and Energy mentioned in his speech many other countries which have organisations similar to this Petroleum and Minerals Authority. 
The Opposition talks about the public expenditure which this Authority will use in so-called risk ventures. When he first introduced the Bill the Minister said the Authority would be financed from moneys saved under sections 77C, 77D and 78 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, which were repealed last year by this Government. The Government has been expending $47m a year on this hopeless concession. This is the way this Authority will be financed. If the Liberal and Country Parties want to talk about what the foreign companies and the mining companies have done for us in Australia, I invite them to look at the report from the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange- the Rae Committee report. The  Chairman, Senator Rae,  is one of their members. If honourable members read that chapter of the report dealing with Minerals Securities Australia Ltd they will find that section 77C, the section which is supposedly supporting mining in this country and giving an impetus to exploration, was used for a very shabby purpose- for speculation in stocks purchased and operated by Minerals Securities Australia Ltd and as a tax evasion technique to increase the asset value of that company. I have in front of me an extract from the Rae Committee 's report. It shows that in 1 966 Mineral Securities made a profit of $161,000 and paid no tax. It was able to claim the whole profit as a deduction because under section 77 moneys subscribed to new mining issues are completely tax deductible. It moved its profit across into a completely new company which it had formed, received a deduction for it and paid no tax. 
In 1967 it made a profit of $1,584,000 and paid no tax. The next year it made a profit of $1,423,000 and paid no tax. The next year it made a profit of $12,707,000 and paid $61,000 in tax; that is all the tax it paid on a profit of $ 12.7m. There was a cumulative effect. As it made further profits it had to put money into another company to get the deduction. How was it able to get its own capital out? It invested in shares at $1 each, speculated on the market, manipulated the market, got the shares up to $5 or $6 each and then sold out. In that way it was able to tear out its capital and have 60 per cent of the company- 50 per cent financed by deductions under section 77 and 10 per cent financed by the Australian public through share and market speculation. When the market finally collapsed its game collapsed. But all in all it raked $ 1 5.8m of the $47m per annum concession under section 77. That is just one case which is referred to in the Rae Committee's report. That was happening across the board.  Mr Fitzgerald  pointed out in his report that only 27 per cent of the section 77 deductions was going to genuine, legitimate mining search. That is what the Opposition's Committee found. The Opposition cannot dispute those figures. It cannot say that the Fitzgerald report was a rort. 
I will tell the honourable member for Cowper who  Mr Fitzgerald  is. The Fitzgerald report is the most significant report to have been presented to this Parliament in the last 3 years. He is a respected economic journalist. He was commissioned by the Minister for Minerals and Energy in the early part of this year to inquire into the benefit derived by Australia from the mining industry. It happened that, unbeknown to the Government, the report was ready when the last election came on. The Opposition tried to can it on the basis that it was a political stunt. It is the most devastating document ever to be presented to the Australian Parliament. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  referred to it today. Talking specifically about Hamersley Holdings Ltd- the famous iron ore developer in Western Australia- he was able to show conclusively that the tax payable by such companies is payable at a very minimum. In fact, mining companies in Australia enjoy the very honoured distinction of being able to write off not only capital equipment as a depreciation but also the infrastructure of towns and buildings. So the towns which they have built and of which the Opposition speaks have all been a complete tax deduction. Against all its profits for the first 6 years of its operations Hamersley wrote off every deduction that it had. The Western Australian Government kept increasing the ore body that Hamersley had. Every time that it asked for an extension of its lease it was granted additional areas. Which of the world's major trading banks would not lend money to a company which had an established mining operation and which was getting new mineral leases that were proved to have the best grade of iron ore in the world? Of course it was just a joke 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister told the House that of the $ 1 , 1 32m in declared profits of mining companies in the 4 years from 1967 to 1971 the take to the Government of Australia was minus $40m; in other words, we paid out $40m in 4 years to let the mining companies earn $1,1 32 m. Of that amount 80 per cent was repatriated overseas. So we had the ludicrous position where the previous Liberal-Country Party Government was allowing the Australian tax laws to be used to subsidise profit that was ultimately payable to foreigners. That is what honourable members and senators opposite did when they were in government; yet they have the hide to call themselves Australians and to ridicule the Minister for Minerals and Energy. They ought to be on their knees and thankful for having a man of his competence in this place. 
Let us talk about the Opposition's approach to things. It says that the Petroleum and Minerals Authority BUI is a piece of socialist legislation. I will admit that the Authority is not there to compete with private enterprise. It is there to look after the national interests of Australia. We will go into partnership with private enterprise. I presume that the Authority will do that in the national interests. The Opposition has said that Australians are incapable of making investment decisions. I will tell the House something about the famous Hamerlsey deal. When Hamersley was first conceived by Lang Hancock- I give him credit for recognising a decent investment potentialand he approached the Liberal-Country Party Government of Australia, it closed the door in his face. He went to the Australian trading banks and they closed the door in his face. Finally, the only people he could interest in this enormous project in the Pilbara was the Kaiser Steel Corporation of the United States of America and Riotinto Zinc Corporation of the United Kingdom. Their original and only investment in Hamersley, which is now capitalised at $672m, was $45m. Their original loan was for $80m from the banks in the City of London. To show the magnitude of that investment I point out that the Commonwealth Employees Superannuation Fund invests $45 m every year. 
Members of the Opposition have spoken about the massive Pilbara developments. It involved $22. 5m from each company. Are members of the Opposition saying that Australians cannot recognise a decent investment decision? Are they saying that Australians cannot raise money on the Australian capital market? They ought to be ashamed of themselves because what they are saying is that only foreigners are able to make decent investment decisions and that is not so. I will tell the House a little more about Hamersley. Of the $674m raised by Hamersley $5 50m was raised on the Australian capital market. The Australian public is the largest saving public in the world. Australians have the record of being the greatest savers in the world. Any of the statistics which are available will substantiate that. We have enough capital in this nation to finance any sizable national investment project. 
What this Petroleum and Minerals Authority will do is guard decent prospects for Australian companies. When the areas of the north west shelf are returned to the people of Australia under the agreement they will come back to the Petroleum and Minerals Authority which will enter into joint ventures with decent companieswhether they be Australian or overseas- to make sure that the benefit comes back to the people of Australia. To that extent the Petroleum and Minerals Authority will be a regulatory body but it will gather its own geological expertise, its own entrepreneurial expertise and we will be able to deal with any of the major energy companies of the world because we will have a body competent to do so. I do not slight the Department of Minerals and Energy or the Bureau of Mineral Resources, but they were not designed or equipped to handle this particular job. We need an authority, like the Petroleum and Minerals Authority, to do it. Through this Authority we will be capable of identifying good investments, of encouraging Australians to take part, and of guaranteeing loans for them and getting genuine Australian investors interested in what are genuine national development projects. That is something that the Opposition never did when it was in government. 
We have often heard the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the former Prime Minister, the honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  say how we are scaring foreign capital and pushing all the mining companies away. I ask them to answer this question: If a company is able to recover its initial costs of setting up a mine and a development as a complete tax deduction against its immediate profits- it sets up its operation from nothingand it has an enormous ore body lasting, at the same rate at which Hamersley will extract ore, for 175 years, do they not think that that is a better investment than any manufacturing industry or any tertiary industry in the world? The company has its operation costs covered. It has a massive ore body and it has an increment every year in the price of its product. It will reap a return of thousands upon thousands of per cent from the investment. This Government will say- I hope the Petroleum and Minerals Authority and the future governments of Australia will say- 'Thus far and no further. You have made enough. We will not let you rape and plunder our country. We want what is rightfuly available to the people of this nation and to future generations of Australians. We want our rightful slice of the cake. And we will get it.' We are not going to be put off any more by these arguments that foreigners alone should invest in Australia. 
The Opposition referred to the original investment of $45 m in Hamersley and to massive capital raisings. The Esso-BHP group raised twothirds of its capital on the Australian capital market. And what have we paid for? Where is the rip-off there? The rip-off is there for the group's so-called expertise. The Petroleum and Minerals Authority will be able to employ whom it likes. We can buy the best geologists in the world; we can buy the best mining engineers in the world; we can buy the best reservoir engineers in the world and we can buy the expertise we like. We do not have to pay for it. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was speaking on the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill which is a Bill designed to explore for and to develop Australia 's petroleum and mineral resources. During my remarks I referred to the Rae and Fitzgerald reports which dealt with minerals and petroleum in Australia. I did so much to the chagrin of members of the Opposition. The establishment of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority is not a singular policy of this Government. It is part of a package which was developed by the Minister for Minerals and Energy as part of a total energy budget and program for the development of the minerals and petroleum industry in Australia. 
The Government has been consistent in the policy approaches that it has taken. In the case of natural gas we have instituted since we have been in office a national pipeline grid which will supply people across the nation. We have introduced a Seas and Submerged Lands Bill to guarantee the sovereignty of the national Government of Australia over the offshore areas of Australia for the benefit of all Australians; to put a policy for the offshore development of our petroleum resources where it fairly belongs- in the national Parliament and not on the parliaments of the States. We have developed and are developing a uranium policy to guarantee the proper development of uranium in this country. Already the Minister has been vindicated in his statements that previous contracts were signed at below what were world parity prices. In the 1 8 months that we have been in office we as a Government have seen the price of uranium doubled and the contracts that were written and hailed by the Opposition as being of great achievement in 1972 look rather puny against the prices which are being paid on the world market today. 
In the field of minerals the Minister has gained major increases in the price of iron ore. Through his government to government relations we have gained an 1 8 per cent increase in the price of iron ore to compensate for the revaluation of the Australian dollar relative to the American dollar. The Minister again has set the climate for Australian negotiators representing Australian iron ore companies to go to Japan next month to seek further price increases. Since this Government has come to office the Minister has increased dramatically the price of coal. Australia is now securing world parity prices for coal where 18 months ago we were about 25 per cent below what was available in the world. 
We have proper relations with Japan, our major trading partner, on a government to government basis as willing sellers to willing buyers. The previous Liberal- Country Party governments had our iron ore and coal producers stringing along to Japan one after the other and being picked off and played off against each other. The Minister has now taught these producers to barter on a negotiated basis. He has taught them what collective strength means. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the Minister for Minerals and Energy and other senior Ministers went to Japan last year and paved the way for a better relationship with our major trading partner. 
Of course, the people who are most upset are members of the Australian Country Party, the people who are most interested in the pork barrel; the people who claim to speak for rural industries but really want to represent the wealthy foreign owned mining companies in Australia. Very shortly we will see Doug Anthony House next to John McEwen House if the Australian people are foolish enough to let the Liberal and Country Parties have another crack at the title. We are interested in the wealth and well being of the Australian community, not the sectional interests of an agrarian rump- the Country Party- which will sell out to any interest to meet its own shabby political purposes. The Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  during the last election talked about an increase of $6 a barrel in the price of oil in this country. He is now called 'double price Doug'. He wants to send the price of oil up by another $6 a barrel. Such a move would increase the take to the likes of Esso-BHP which made a profit in petroleum of over $43m last year, to a profit of $966m a year in oil. That is what the Country Party proposed; that is what they were prepared to force upon the Australian consumer and the Australian motorist. May I conclude by congratulating the Minister for Minerals and Energy on his foresight in introducing what is a most far reaching and worth while piece of legislation. He has been the exclusive architect of the Labor Party's minerals and energy policy. 
I thought that I should say a few words about the speech just made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth). Mr Speaker,  the honourable member talked about his indignation at the way he was treated, or allegedly treated, by your good self. I would just like to remind the honourable member of the indignation of all members of the Parliament at the way in which he abuses the Standing Orders with regularity and obstructs the business of the House I refer to the Joint Sitting as a classic example, when he moved the suspension of Standing Orders on unrelated matters so that he could grab the limelight on a day when the Parliament was televised. We have had to suffer this kind of behaviour week in and week out. The honourable member has taken frivolous points of order. He has pursued points of order with the  Speaker  to the point where the  Speaker  has on many occasions demonstrated his leniency towards him. It is unfair for the honourable member for Mackellar to come into the House during the Adjournment debate and raise matters of the kind he has raised tonight, when the  Speaker  does not have the right of reply. The honourable member traversed ground which was traversed yesterday during discussion on the motion of no confidence in the  Speaker  which was defeated by this Parliament. 
The honourable member talked about his indignation. We all suffer quite a lot with him. The honourable member has used these obstructionist measures since 1972 when he went onto the back bench of the Opposition. The managers of his own side of the House are often distressed by his frivolous actions in the House and his constant disruption. So if we are talking about indignation I would like the honourable member for Mackellar to consider you,  Mr Speaker,  on more occasions than in the past and also to consider members on this side of the House and other members of the Parliament who feel that they are elected to say something in this Parliament at odd times and particularly during the adjournment debate. The honourable member for Mackellar should not monopolise the adjournment debate on most nights of the week. 
He has taken advantage of the fact that at the commencement of the adjournment debate the  Speaker  calls a member from the Opposition side first and then a member from the Government side of the House. Because of the limited time for debate more Opposition speakers than Government speakers get the call. Therefore on most occasions the honourable member for Mackellar gets an unfair advantage over most members from this side of the Parliament. I think that most members from this side of the Parliament feel that they also have a right to speak on the adjournment and to raise the matters of importance to their constituents or their elecorares. I ask the honourable member for Mackellar to consider other members of this House before he gets up to justify himself again. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
What are the proposals of the Minister for Minerals and Energy for the mining and marketing of uranium following the recent disallowance by the Senate of the Atomic Energy 
Act regulations which were gazetted on 29 March last? 
-At the outset I refute the imputation made by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  that I asked a Dorothy Dix question of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  I draft my own questions, thank you very much. I do not need any Minister or anyone else to draft them for me. I take to task the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  for his comments.  His  first proposition was that the Minister for Minerals and Energy is suspect in the Australian Labor Party, that there is disenchantment with him in the ranks of the Labor Party and that the Government's policy on fuel and energy matters is not known to them. Firstly, I remind the right honourable gentleman that, outside the leadership of the Labor Party, the Minister for Minerals and Energy was elected to the Ministry with the highest vote in June this year. Secondly, there was a  3Vi  hour debate last Wednesday night by the resources committee of the Caucus on uranium. On both counts the right honourable member is so far from the mark that it is not funny. 
In the last 2 years we have heard bleatings from the Leader of the Country Party and all the other lobbyists opposite that the Government has not spelt out a policy on uranium. Today the Minister outlined some of the reasons why it has not. They are connected with the Woodward Committee. That Committee did not bring down its report until May of this year, and the Government could not act before it received the report. Then there was the gazettal of the uranium regulations under the Atomic Energy Act. The maximum time elapsed before these regulations were disallowed in the Senate. They were not disallowed within a week of their being put down because that would have been too convenient. They were disallowed towards the end of the time in which they could have been disallowed so as to foul up the Minister for the longest period possible. 
Despite all this obstruction by the Opposition the Minister is proceeding under the Atomic Energy Act. The premise upon which the Leader of the Country Party bases his argument is that we should be exporting uranium and capturing what markets are available. He refuses to recognise that for 20 years the Liberal-Country Party Government of which he was a member at one part had an embargo on the export of all uranium from this country. It was not until the Australian Labor Party came into office that we had to flog off everything at any price we could get for it. In the last 1 8 months we have heard story after story on this subject. There was one in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 11 July 1974 that overseas interests in uranium stockpiles may be on the wane. That was taken from a paper delivered by one of the producers to the Australian Institute of Mining Metallurgy Conference. At the same time as we have had these persistent stories about how our uranium is going to be worthless the price of crude oil in the world has been climbing dramatically. It must be common sense to anyone that an equivalent amount of BTUs, whether it comes from uranium or any other energy resource, must be as valuable and must be inflating in price at the same rate or something near it as the price of oil is inflating. There is the additional value that uranium is able to be stored and stockpiled, which cannot be done with lots of other fuels. So the point will never arrive at which our resources are worthless. 
The Minister referred to a letter which was written by  Mr John  Proud, the  Chairman  of Directors of Peko-Wallsend Ltd, to  Sir Reginald  Swartz in August 1 972- that is, a few months before the Labor Government came to office. I wish to labour the point on a couple of paragraphs of the letter which was written by that gentleman to illustrate the fallacy and the phoneyness of the Opposition's approach to the subject of uranium. 
It has a tune for all seasons, but this is the true situation. In relation to marketing policy the letter states: 
The Australian Government has asked the Australian producers to come to an arrangement which will ensure orderly marketing of uranium and will maintain the price of uranium at a reasonable level during the market surplus. 
I emphasise the words 'during the market surplus '. The letter continues: 
The six companies which presently intend to produce uranium in Australia (Peko-Wallsend, EZ Industries, Noranda Australia Limited, Queensland Mines Limited, Mary Kathleen Uranium Limited, and Western Mining Corporation Limited) are now parties to an arrangement which would meet the Government's wishes. 
The world uranium market will be in substantial oversupply until the early 1980s. It is believed that the demand/ supply situation will be in balance in the mid-1980s and that there might be a shortage of uranium towards the end of the 1980s. 
The greatest danger to maintaining the world marketing arrangement while there is a market surplus is that further substantial uranium deposits may be discovered and brought into production by companies not a party to the arrangement. 
In other words, messing up their little plan. 
Does the Leader of the Australian Country Party dispute that there is still an over-supply situation. In paragraph 8 on the subject of a uranium resources policy the letter states: 
It would appear reasonable for the Government to decide that all future uranium finds in Australia - 
Listen to this- should be under Australian control, i.e. at least a majority equity interest. In this connection the policy established by the Canadian Government is of particular interest. 
Paragraph 1 1 of the letter reads: 
The cost of establishing uranium production relative to the sale value of the product is possibly the lowest of any mineral so that 2 matters follow: 
That to develop its own uranium resources is comfortably within the capacity of Australia's domestic capital resources. 
It has already been tabled. Why did the honourable member not come into the chamber at the start of the debate? 
-We heard much at the weekend about the Liberal Party's conference and the Liberal Party's new image. Any person listening tonight to the broadcast of these proceedings would hear what the new image really is. The political troglodytes on the other side of the House have made speeches referring to communists, Caucus power and the trip of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  That is like a trip down the time tunnel. It is like 1949 revisited with all the Opposition's scandalmongering, its character assassination and all the negatives it is continuing to propose. One of the problems about politics in Australia today is that we have these overt threats now coming from the Opposition to a properly elected government that at any time in the term of a government the Opposition will force it to an election. The evidence has just been supplied again recently by the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  who has just spoken. He said that  Mr Snedden  will be Prime Minister soon and that soon we will have another election. 
I intend to quote from an editorial in today's 'Australian Financial Review'. I do not like to read editorials in speeches but this is worth reading. The editorial is referring to the prospect of a double dissolution or an election and the Senate power to obstruct a duly elected government. It says: 
This is a sizeable step for the Senate to take - 
To refuse appropriation- but one it is quite capable of doing. Only a few months ago, the political conventions suggested that it was improper for a government to be refused supply by the Upper House. Now, the concept of a double dissolution on these grounds is regarded as being pan of the normal hazards of politics. No matter how you dress up the political system in Australia with fine sounding phrases and meaningless conventions, it ultimately resolves itself into a game of opportunism- or grabbing power when it is going. While it is difficult for any Party leader to concede this publicly, it is suicidal for him to ignore it privately. Clearly,  Mr Snedden  is testing the temperature at the moment. He is signalling that he has not closed off the option of an election this year . . . 
What right has this discredited man to signal calling on an election this year? He was defeated roundly and soundly in only May of this year. He came into this Parliament and said he was not defeated, that it was just that he did not win. He persisted with this ruse for 3 months until, after a couple of months of votes and constant defeat of the Opposition in this Parliament, he finally decided he had actually lost the election. That was just a few months ago and now he is talking about when he will have another election. He has scant regard for the wishes of the people of Australia and scant regard for the political stability of this country. 
When the Labor Party had a majority in the Senate and when the Liberal-Country Party Government was in office the Labor Party never refused Supply. It had more respect for the wish of the people. It never forced a properly elected government to the polls prematurely. It respected the role of the Upper House. The Upper House was a concession to induce the colonies to accept federation. It was worked on the basis that it catered for minorities. The small States had an equal number of representatives in the Senate as did the large States. This was to protect the small States against what could be the machinations of the large States in the House of 
Representatives and the majorities that they could command in this chamber. So, in the event of discriminatory legislation being introduced to the detriment of any of the small States, the small States having equal numbers with the large States could block the legislation. The fact of the matter is that the Senate does not operate as a States House any more; it operates as a parties House. The Liberal-Country Parties have just demonstrated the opportunism to which the editorial referred. Firstly, in May of this year, the Liberal-Country Parties refused the duly elected Government the money to carry on the operations of the Commonwealth of Australia. Now we have all these veiled threats trotted out every couple of months about when the Opposition will take the Government to poll. This means that any government faced with serious economic problems- which this Government is faced with and which were largely inherited from our predecessors- that takes proper corrective measures, does so at its own political risk if those measures earn it unpopularity. In other words its own survival is threatened by the very lightness or correctiveness of decisions which it may have to take and which may be unpalatable. 
The Opposition will continue to use the unpopularity of the Government on economic measures knowing that there is a finely balanced electorate in Australia at the moment and that the Liberal Party and the Country Party can achieve a government at some stage and the Labor Party can achieve a government at some other stage, depending on how the political pendulum is swinging at any one time. The Opposition parties will exploit this balance in the Australian electorate to force any elected government to an election at any time. With this uncertainty which arises from the possibility of an election, a change of power and a change of government in any one year, it is no wonder the business community of Australia does not really know what it is in for. How would it know? In the early part of this year, after 18 months of the Labor Government's being in office and taking correct economic decisions, revaluing the Australian dollar, cutting tariffs, increasing imports, supplementing our own lagging domestic production, to try to beat prices, holding referendums on price control and on wages control and having them defeated, using every constitutional power available in this Parliament to this Government in the economic arena, introducing legislation for which we were given a mandate in 1972 and religiously carrying out the document that the Prime Minister read in his policy speech, the Opposition parties forced this Government to an election. Shame on them for doing so. They talk about doing it again and they wonder why there is uncertainty in the Australian electorate. 
The passing of the Democratic Labor Party, the syphoning off of the right wing vote in Victoria to the Liberal Party and the resurgence of support which the Labor Party has been given, have evened up the stocks of political parties in Australia so that the Australian electorate is very finely balanced. I presume it will remain finely balanced for a long time. The Labor Party has achieved more than 50 per cent of the vote at successive elections and sometimes we have been unable to form a government. We have done it again and we can continue to do it. At some stage in the future the Liberal-Country Parties no doubt will get enough support to form a government. But this balance gives any Opposition with a majority in the Senate the opportunity of forcing the House of Representatives to an election at a time of its choosing without the Senate going to an election itself. This is the threat the Leader of the Opposition uses here constantly. He says that if in his opinion he gets the call he will force an election. Who gives him the call? Are there to be petitions or will the people mass outside the front of Parliament House? It will be only a subjective political judgment based upon political expediency as to when he can force the properly elected Government to the polls. So do not come here talking about the high morality of the Liberal Party. It never had any morals in the past; it will not have any morals in the future. The established parties in any country - 
You are the most debauched character here. Fancy you speaking about morals. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member will address the Chair. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, the establisment parties, the right wing parties, in any country never had morality. The Opposition has never had morality. It has always used the Communist slur and dropped the can and done anything to survive. It has siphoned off the Catholic minority in Victoria for 20 years to survive. Now the Leader of the Opposition has talked at the weekend in his conference about 'vibrant individualism'. He sees a basic struggle between socialism and free enterprise. All of this is class talk and yet he states that he will not go back to the class consciousness that the Australian Labor Party tries to propose. Yet the Opposition lived off class division for the 23 years that it was in government. 
The Opposition will not take defeat. It will not accept that the people did not vote for it on 2 occasions in the last 2 years. It is waiting for an expedient opportunity now to try to destroy us. The Liberal Party a few years ago used to deride the Labor Party for its program of policy formulation and for its forums of debate. It used to call our Federal Conference the '36 Faceless Men'. But when the Liberal Party realised that the Australian electorate appreciated the fact that a major party researched policies, cared about policies and thought about them before they opportunistically offered policies at an election to try to buy votes it realised that it should have federal conferences to try to thrash out policies. Last weekend we had the window dressing of the Liberal Party's National Convention. 
As I said before, the Leader of the Opposition talked about 'vibrant individualism'. There was a lot of individualism available to the poor children in schools, for instance, in my electorate, who never had the chance of tertiary education and never had anything more than an intermediate certificate standard or school certificate standard of education. That was all that they could ever get. But there was not a word about all the Government has done for underprivileged children, people who are underprivileged, superannuated persons and people on pensions. There was no talk about thenindividualism or their opportunity- the so-called individualism of the Liberal Party. Their individualism was a case of: 'You are on your own, mate. Do your best'. But this Government takes the view that an individual is not on his own and that the Government of Australia has responsibilities to all Australians to try to see that everyone is treated fairly. The Liberal Party talked about the terrible policies of this Government. Yet in its 23 years in government it initiated no meaningful change in the social pattern of Australia at all. It derides everything this Government does. 
In the economic arena, for years the present Opposition had stop-go policies. Look at the recessions that occurred. One can go back over the business cycles of Australia. There was one recession after another. The Government of those times never looked at any economic planning. The reason that Australia at the moment has problems with inflation largely goes back to the previous Government's neglect of exchange rate policy in 1971 when the Australian dollar was undervalued and there was a flood of speculative money into Australia. People then were expecting a currency revaluation at any moment, a capital gain on any investment that they made here. That massive inflow which was running at about $2,000m per annum was drifting into building societies, credit unions and finance companies. Enormous amounts of credit were available to take the price of goods in Australia to enormous levels. That is where the take-off started. That is where prices jumped in front of wages. As a result unions, quite rightly tried to preserve the purchasing power of the wages of their members. Wages gradually caught up and probably now wages are leading prices. But the phenomenon arose because the Opposition, through the political influence of the Australian Country Party and its effect on rural commodities to try to increase their attractiveness overseas, kept the Australian dollar undervalued and because the foreign mining companies in Australia had contracts for commodities written in terms of U.S. dollars any rise in the value of the Australian dollar meant a diminishing return for any company that had contracts written in U.S. dollars. 
The Country Party, being the lackey of the foreign mining companies in this place, forced the Liberal Party- the present Leader of the Opposition was then the Treasurer- to accept a value for the Australian dollar which was too low. The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  inflicted this upon the nation. That produced the enormous capital inflow which was the take-off point for the high level of inflation that we experienced in 1973. In the first quarter of 1973 inflation was running at an annual rate of 14.6 per cent. Not one policy that the Labor Party had introduced, not one appropriation of Labor Party policy within 4 months of taking office had had time to take effect. Yet within 4 months of this Government taking office inflation was running at an annual rate of 14.6 per cent. 
We have done everything within our power as a Government to do something about inflation. We revalued the Australian dollar upwards by 24 per cent. We cut tariffs to make imports cheaper so that there would be competition with the price of domestic products and so that they would be cheaper for people to buy. We increased the quantity of imports so that they could supplement Australia's domestic production. We set up a Prices Justification Tribunal to make sure that all of the major companies in Australia producing basic commodities like rubber, steel and chemicals went before it to ensure that their prices were justified. We restricted liquidity to stop this enormous demand for housing, goods, cars, refrigerators and all of the other things that were going up in price. We held a referendum on price control and were defeated. 
We have used every power available to us to do something about inflation. Now that the liquidity constraints are starting to take effect we have been encouraged to ease them off. We have devalued the dollar by 12% per cent because not enough money was coming to Australia as people realised that if they imported money they would take a capital loss on any devaluation effected after the money arrived here. We have reduced the yield on short term Government securities. We have reduced the statutory reserve deposits of the Reserve Bank by $700m since April to try to stimulate liquidity in certain areas of the economy. We have taken off the 25 per cent deposit rule on the importation of foreign funds. That is the rule where - 
To try to stop inflation, you dummy. Can you not understand anything at all? 
Has the Minister for Minerals and Energy noted complaints by  Mr Hildebrand  of Australian Anglo American Ltd concerning the deal entered into between the Petroleum and Minerals Authority and the Wambo Coal Corporation yesterday? Is there any basis for the criticism which this gentleman has made of the Minister? 
I wish to deal briefly with the estimates of the Department of Services and Property in the manner in which these relate to the facilities provided to members of Parliament. It is appropriate that I should mention this matter at this time as the estimates for the Department of Housing and Construction are being debated cognately with the estimates of the Department of Services and Property. The independent Remuneration Tribunal in the report which is presented earlier this year recommended, amongst other things, that members of Parliament be provided with research facilities. This assistance was to be provided to all members but particularly back bench members. A specific recommendation in the report dealt with this aspect. 
We have reached the perilous position in this Parliament where the functions of a complex modern government in this day and age are so mammoth that it is becoming more difficult for the average back bencher, particularly Government back benchers, to deal with the enormous legislative tasks which are thrust upon them. A requirement exists for some additional research facilities to be created. At the moment the only staff that a member of Parliament has is secretarial assistance in his electorate office. This is provided by a stenographer. These stenographers in most cases pull more than their weight by doing work which they really are not paid to do, that is, constituent's work while members are absent. They deal also with what is clearly specific policy work on matters on which members have a responsibility. These matters include such aspects as economic affairs, health, social welfare and whatever a member's interests may be, particularly in dealing with certain aspects of legislation. Despite this, it is almost impossible now for members to deal adequately with the work load. 
I was elected to this Parliament 5 years ago. The Budget of the Australian Government has doubled in that period. I am not suggesting that its functions have doubled but they would certainly have increased by at least 50 per cent. If we compare the current position with that of our predecessors 30 years ago we find that, in terms of the work load which they had, they were in dreamland. 
There is a constant campaign- I think a very worrying campaign by the Press Gallery in Canberra and the Press generally in Australia- to denigrate the work of members of Parliament. By and large I think it is fair to say that the average member of Parliament works 70 hours to 80 hours a week in this Parliament. Yet this occupation is portrayed as a perk and lurk ridden one. I do not know what the purpose of the campaign is- whether it is designed to bring about some lack of confidence in the general democratic process- but it is a sustained campaign of vilification by what is fundamentally a lazy group of incompetent people in the Canberra Press Gallery. Apart from a dozen or so stars, if I might so describe them, who are able to do a job, it is fair to say that all that really happens in the Canberra Gallery is straight reporting of news and a consistent anti-MPs campaign by members of the Press Gallery who feed upon the Parliament and its members for the purposes of their own occupation. 
This is something to which the Parliament must give a great deal of interest and with which it must concern itself. The Australian public must realise the qualities of the people who come to the Parliament and who give up occupations to be paid at the level of a class 10 clerk in the Third Division of the Commonwealth Public Service. The people who give away professional occupations and who accept that sort of salary find that they are equated to a class S clerk on a 40-hour week basis. Anyone who thinks that the national Parliament with the enormous responsibilities that it has to the nation can be run on that basis along with the fact that members of Parliament are being sniped at by people who have been referred to as the 'scribblers of the Press', has another think coming. The Australian people should be appraised of the fact that they have a hard working Parliament in Canberra. I cannot speak for the position in the other States. I think that the States are probably losing functions and that the Australian Parliament is attracting them. But the work load here is reaching the point where if no additional research facilities are made available the place cannot operate efficiently. 
On a bipartisan basis in this Parliament due concern should be paid to the sort of rubbishing articles that are written by members of the Canberra Press Gallery and the Australian Press generally, and particularly to the headlines which appear in the tabloid newspapers in the capital cities. What I refer to is something which is very real. It is a sustained campaign to denigrate the role of members of Parliament and Parliament generally. I would have liked to devote 20 minutes or half an hour to this topic as this is the only opportunity that I will have to raise this matter in the Estimates debate. By agreement, only S minutes is available to me and that time has expired. I do commend to honourable members the thoughts that I have raised. 
-Again we have heard a whingeing speech from this shamefaced lobbyist who comes in here and just takes a brief from any foreign company that hands it to him. Tonight the Leader of the Country Party stands in the National Parliament of Australia complaining because the Government-owned Petroleum and Minerals Authority has taken up a shareholding in an Australian venture and kept an American company out. He is complaining and the basis of his complaint is a breach of confidentiality. We did not hear him complain about the 78 per cent foreign equity in the North- West Shelf or the 78 per cent foreign equity in the Queensland coal mines. He comes into this Parliament complaining about the charter which was given to the Petroleum and Minerals Authority by a joint sitting of both Houses of Parliament, and that is precisely what is wrong with minerals and energy policy in Australia. It is not this Government or the Minister but the fact that the Opposition takes a partisan view and sees its role as supporting foreign companies in Australia. A notable personage like  Sir Edward  Warren, of all people, came out and supported the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  and complimented the Government upon the deal which the PMA had done with the Wambo coal mine, and this is precisely why the PMA was implemented- to stop Australian companies having to invite foreign miners into Australia to supply capital to develop prospects which those Australian companies held. 
What the Government is doing is allowing the Australian Petroleum and Minerals Authority to supplement the capital of Australian companies with adequate funds to enable them to pursue their prospects themselves. And so we do not see another Woodside-Burmah. We had the Australian Woodside company, which was given all of the leases on the North- West Shelf which, due to lack of funds, had to invite Burmah Oil of Britain in. Burmah Oil subsequently dominated the whole corporate structure of Woodside. And what have they expended? An amount which could have been raised in the Australian loan markets and could have been funded by any interested Federal Government, instead of those represented by the shamefaced lobbyists opposite. Honourable members opposite ought to be ashamed to call themselves members of the Australian National Parliament with the attitude they have. 
The Leader of the Country Party talks about a minerals policy. When the Minister for Minerals and Energy inherited the portfolio there were not even any statistics to work from. The Minister could not even call upon or rely upon adequate statistics on the state of the industry. None were ever kept. The Bureau of Mineral Resources leaked like a sieve back to all of the foreign companies in Australia with which it had had sweetheart dealings over the years when the LiberalCountry Party Government was in office. We had to bring in - 
It is not a shameful thing to say. It is a fact and you know it, and you are one of the people who try to encourage leaks from that place. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member will address his remarks to the Chair. 
The PMA was implemented in order to have at least an information gathering authority which would be able to regulate properly all exploration and mining in this country, whether in hydro-carbons or minerals on shore. The point of the Authority is to give Australia some real expertise in the areas of exploration and mining which other countries have- an expertise which Italy has with its Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi and which other countries have but which we do not have. We have had an inadequate ministry in the Liberal-Country Party with inadequate instruments in organisations like the Bureau of Mineral Resources, which was not designed to oversee a general exploration and production program in this country but to be only a geological organisation. That is why the Government introduced the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill and that is why this Bill is now starting to have dramatic effects. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy is to be complimented on what he has done since he became Minister. He introduced the Pipeline Authority Bill to set up a national pipeline grid in Australia. The Government has put through the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill, against opposition from the other side of the House, so that the Australian Government does have power over the off-shore of Australia and it is not left to all of these city-State, rotten borough, pocket State governments to make agreements with foreign companies. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was dealing with some matters raised by the Leader of the Australian Country Party in his attack on the Minister for Minerals and Energy and the Government for their handling generally of the minerals and energy area. As usual he had nothing good to say. For instance, he did not mention that the present Government is the first Government to pass legislation which will effectively guarantee the sovereignty over the offshore areas of Australia that the Seas and Submerged Lands Act will give to the Australian Parliament if the challenge in the High Court of Australia is rejected as we believe it will be; that the Government introduced the National Pipeline Authority Act, which provides for the setting up of an inter-connected grid to supply all the east coast cities and regional centres of Australia with natural gas from the west of Australia and the north west shelf; that since the Government took office the Minister for Minerals and Energy has improved the price of Australian exports to our major trading partner, Japan; that the Minister for Minerals and Energy secured a 20-odd per cent differential from the major Japanese steel firms when our currency was revalued and that he has since secured by negotiation further price increases in iron ore; that the price of coal to Australian exporters to Japan has increased by 50 per cent in that period; and that the manner in which Australian coal producers were straggling to Japan one after another and being picked off by the Japanese companies and MITT- the Japanese Ministry of International Trade and Industry has ended and that, in short, he has brought rationalisation and common sense to the fastest growing industry in Australia. 
It is a compliment to the Minister for Minerals and Energy that he has had so much foresight and that he has been so single minded in his task. The Press has mounted a sustained compaign against him generated I think, in some quarters by the companies which were affected by the decision taken in the national interest. A consistent program has been implemented by the Minister and the Government. The Leader of the Australian Country Party regularly comes into this chamber with a brief which has been handed to him by one of the foreign mining companies. Whatever is at issue that week, one can bet that he will be in here with his song to sing. This afternoon he again referred to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which, in short, is the share-the-energy club. He said that the OECD bagged Australia for not having any energy or minerals policies. In fact, what the Minister told the OECD when it came whinging was that if it did not have enough sense to get in out of the rain it should not come to us complaining. 
Now that the former colonial powers which abused their relationships within their colonial empires and obtained cheap fuel and cheap resources, and have squandered them, as the Americans have done on large cars with big V8 engines and with massive uses of power for air conditioning and all sorts of other comforts, they are complaining to the world that they have energy shortages and are expecting everyone to fall over backwards to make sure that they are supplied with their needs at bargain basement prices. That is the job which the OECD has for itself. Quite rightly it was sent packing. I believe that that is completely the right attitude to adopt. If the OECD wants to howl let it howl, but the leader of an Australan political party should not come into this Parliament and pick up the cause of the OECD as well as the causes of other foreign mining companies. What about for once coming in and picking up the cause of an Australian company or an Australian enterprise for a change. Never has that happened in the time I have heard the Leader of the Australian Country Party speak on these questions. He has always spoken in criticism of the Minister and of the Government to help what are ostensibly foreign controlled companies. 
We have heard again this afternoon about the Wambo coal mine in New South Wales. The Petroleum and Minerals Authority Act, which was passed at the joint sitting of both Houses of Parliament, is a piece of legislation designed by the Minister for Minerals and Energy. The instrumentality set up by it bought a piece of this coal mine because the coal mine had to get foreign capital to remain open. The action of this Australian Government instrumentality will allow this mine to stay open and to get enough liquidity to improve its operations without being dominated by foreign ownership, which has been the pattern of things in Australia. The present Government has done all it can to regulate foreign ownership in Australia and to maximise the use and utilisation of our resources. It is high time that the whingers opposite stopped criticising the Government, particularly the Minister, because a first class job is being done in this area. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
Referring to the House of Representatives Elections on 18 May 1974; (a) how many first preference votes were recorded for each candidate, and (b) what was the percentage of first preference votes to formal votes recorded for each candidate in each Subdivision of each Electoral Division in Australia. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy and refer to the outrageous application by Ampol Petroleum Ltd to the Prices Justification Tribunal for an increase in the price of Australian crude oil from $2.23 a barrel to $6.38 a barrel. Was the application a breach of the agreement made between a former Australian government, the government led by  Mr John  Gorton, and the Bass Strait and Barrow Island producers? Will the Minister explain why a regulation was gazetted to exclude the matter from investigation by the Prices Justification Tribunal? 
Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to statements made recently by the Queensland Premier to the effect that Queenslanders are worse off under this Federal Labor Government than they were under previous Liberal-Country Party Federal governments? Is it not a fact that individual Queenslanders are infinitely better off under this Government? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is he able to estimate the number of people likely to be directly disadvantaged by a refusal of supply by the Senate leaving the Government unable to meet its obligations. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. I refer him to the announced intention of the Leader of the Opposition that a Liberal Government under his leadership would scrap the Prices Justification Tribunal and Medibank. Will this declaration have a damaging effect upon the Prices Justification Tribunal, robbing it of its prestige and effectiveness? 
-by leave-This is the second offence by this journalist. He was the one who released the story about the confidential report on meat prices. I ask you,  Mr Speaker,  to look at the detail of this report to see whether in your opinion there is a prima facie case to put this matter before the Privileges Committee, with a view to removing this man's right to be in the Parliamentary Press Gallery. This would not disenfranchise the Press or the particular newspaper; it would take away from the Gallery a person I believe is not fit to hold a Press pass in this place. 
I very rarely rise to speak on any Bills connected with health because, like most honourable members in this place, I have my special interests. For the umpteenth time I have heard the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  rant and rave in this House and misrepresent the whole basis of the Government's health program. I just want to make a couple of points which are always skimmed over by the Opposition. The Opposition hopes that the Australian people will be guillible enough to accept what it says. Most of the speech of the honourable member for Hotham was devoted to the principle of the national health scheme- Medibank- and was not concerned with this Bill which deals with the supervision by the Australian Government of the operation of the medical and hospital organisations registered under the National Health Act. 
The honourable member for Hotham said in criticism of the Government that the Labor Party was promoting its scheme and using government revenue to do so. It is claimed that the Government is spending $ 1.85m for that purpose. The dishonesty of that statement is that the thing which he calls 'its scheme' happens to be law. The Bill establishing Medibank was passed at a Joint Sitting of both Houses of the Parliament. We defeated the Opposition at 2 Federal elections on the issue. In the 1969 election we campaigned on it. Admittedly we did not form a government on that occasion, but we picked up many seats. It was a principal plank of our policy in 1969. It was a principal plank of our policy in 1972, and we formed a government on it. It was one of the reasons for the double dissolution in 1974 and it was a principal plank of our policy for the election that followed. We formed a government again on that occasion. Under the provisions of the Constitution there was held in this chamber a Joint Sitting of both Houses of the Parliament which passed our proposal into law. The scheme subsequently has been called Medibank. Members or the Opposition say that it is improper for the Australian Government to advertise to the people of Australia the details of a comprehensive medical program which is enacted in law. They try to misrepresent it and suggest that we are, in a partisan sense, promoting the Australian Labor Party program. 
The honourable member for Hotham, that mouthpiece of the medical profession and the doctors, had to come in here again this afternoon and suggest that $ 1.85m ought to be given to the Liberal Party to promote its scheme, completely disregarding the fact that the Constitution provided and allowed a Joint Sitting of both Houses of this Parliament to pass the scheme into law. Members of the Opposition parties behaved like larrikins in the Senate. They defeated the levy Bill which was to fund the measure which was already law. In other words, they had disrespect for the passage of the law under the Joint Sitting of both Houses. They frustrated the operation of the law by refusing the passage of that Bill through the Parliament. When it is proposed to fund the scheme from general revenue and the advertisements try to explain that there will be no contributions for the scheme, members of the Opposition misrepresent that we are trying to suggest that it is a free scheme. We say in the advertisements that the scheme will be funded from generalrevenueasisanyothersocialservice. What we are saying is that the people do not have to pay contributions, in case people are confused about it. There are to be no contributions. 
The Opposition sides with the doctors.  Dr Arnold  appeared on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program 'This Day Tonight' the other night. When the girl interviewing him quizzed him about his mock indignation about the scheme and asked what is his objection he said that if the doctors carried out bulk billing and were paid by Medibank directly they would be de facto Commonwealth employees; there would be creeping socialism and the doctors would lose their independence. What a lot of rot. The present situation remains. If a patient wants to go and pay the doctor he can. The doctor may ask for the patient's drawing rights on the fund and the patient has to agree to transfer them. Those are the facts of the situation. 
Why do members of the Opposition dishonestly represent this all the time? What is their purpose? They know the present scheme is a hotch potch. It is funded from general revenue. Does one ever hear of any doctor now object to billing directly for repatriation benefits? Has anyone ever heard any screams from the medical profession about the fact that they presently bill directly for repatriation benefits? Never. But because there happens to be direct billing instead of going via the back door as it is now- the Government contribution is 50 per centthrough the private funds, because the private part has been eliminated from the scheme and the scheme is to be funded completely by the Government the doctors say that they are de facto Commonwealth employees, their independence is taken away, that the British health scheme is upon us with all the inherent problems. 
Every member of this House knows that this scheme is entirely different from the British health scheme. Yet members of the Opposition try to misrepresent it. I do not know when they are ever going to learn. They have been knocked over twice. They try to oppose the scheme. They do not realise that a lot of people, like the people in my electorate, cannot afford to insure themselves for health protection. It is all right for members of the Opposition. They are getting reasonable salaries and represent electorates with people in the middle and reasonably high income groups. But a lot of people were given no health protection at all because it was too expensive for them. They will be given it under this scheme. 
Why should members of the Opposition oppose it so stupidly, particularly afterthe passage of the proposal into law? They opposed the levy Bill and now they try to misrepresent the advertising of the scheme as something which the Australian Labor Party is using in a partisan way to try to prop up itself. The real position as far as this encroachment on the doctors' rights is concerned is that there are 3 ways in which the scheme will operate: The patient may pay the doctor and receive a refund on receipt; the patient may forward the unpaid account to Medibank and receive a cheque made out to the doctor; or the doctor may directly bill Medibank after accepting assignment of the drawing rights from the patient. That is the real situation. 
When we bring in a Bill to police the funds, it is said that that is a crime too. Members of the Opposition think that the funds should be able to go their merry way investing in all the projects that they have run in the past. A lot of their money went into speculative ventures, particularly during the boom in the economy in 1971-72. A lot of this investment was unpoliced. Now members of the Opposition say that there is something wrong with our proposal. They ought to have a look at themselves and decide what is honest motivation and what is decent policy. I do not think they have any conception of what the national Parliament is about and what is national responsibility in terms of a thing like the health of the Australian people. 
This is a decent scheme. Why do members of the Opposition stand behind a man like the honourable member for Hotham and have the position misrepresented year in year out, debate in debate out? It is time they grew up and woke up to themselves. I shall not delay the House much longer. I was provoked into speaking this afternoon because I am sick and tired of listening to the garble and drivel from the synthetic member for Hotham who brings in all of his phoney arguments and misrepresentations day after day. I commend this legislation to the House. It is long overdue. It is about time that some of these funds had some decent supervision. 
I rise to speak in the debate on the Family Law Bill and to state a view which I would have been able to express in the Committee stage, but mostly to give an expression of opinion because this is a matter of public controversy. All of us have received letters of the kind the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  has mentioned. I also welcome this opportunity to speak because when we had earlier debates on what are referred to as conscience matters- that is, the debate on the Bill relating to abortion about a year ago and on a motion relating to the law in respect of honosexual activities- on both occasions I was not afforded an opportunity to speak. More than that, a lot of people were not afforded the opportunity of moving amendments. When it came to a vote, particularly on the second matter, people were forced to vote in a way which was not really in accordance with their views, but they were left without any options and they had to take the course of voting for what was offered in the motion. For that reason a lot of honourable members voted in a manner in which they would not normally vote. So I welcome the opportunity to be able to say a few things about the Bill. 
Most of the subject matter of the Bill has been canvassed pretty well to date. I do not intend to bore the House with a resume of what the other 20 or 30 speakers have said. Suffice to say that the law does not keep a marriage together. Only the decency of people and their desire to have happiness together can do that. In the final analysis, if the matter ends up in the divorce court I believe that the opportunities for reconciliation at that time are fairly dismal. The real time to do something about divorce or about marriage breakdown is long before divorce proceedings take place. In that circumstance we as legislators are left to haggle over which concept the law should espouse basically to deal with a washup position, picking up the pieces after a marriage has failed. 
I believe there is a lot of merit in the basic thrust of clause 48 which contains the central meaning of the Bill. But I believe there are a lot of inadequacies in the Bill. One of these inadequacies is that these if no provision for instant divorce which is a weakness when compared with the present position. One can presently obtain an instant divorce for the nonconsummation of the marriage, cruelty and a number of other reasons. A woman or a man is able to terminate the marriage almost instantly. Under this Bill one cannot. However I would be prepared to vote for the motion for the. second reading of the Bill. I would like to seek to amend it in the Committee stage along the terms of the amendment foreshadowed by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  I shall read some of the details of his proposed amendment because I believe it covers what I and I think a lot of other honourable members believe the Bill should provide. The honourable member has stated: 
Subject to sub-section (3), in a proceeding instituted by such an application, the ground shall be held to have been established, and a decree of dissolution of the marriage shall be made, if, and only if, the court is satisfied that- 
having regard to the behaviour of the parties the marriage has in fact broken down irretrievably. 
In other words, the question of behaviour comes in and an instant divorce could be given if the court so decided. The proposed amendment continues: 
the parties separated and thereafter live separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 24 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage. 
So if one person wants to terminate the marriage and if they live apart for 24 months the marriage can be terminated. The honourable member then proposes: 
The court shall not grant a decree based on section 48 (2) (a) where the only behaviour relied upon is lack of cohabitation. 
This is the central thrust of section 48. It provides that the only reason is irretrievable breakdown and the fact that the parties lived apart. So the proposal of the honourable member for Wentworth says 2 things. He says that there should be objectivity in respect of behaviour to preserve the present position of instant divorce or divorce on grounds, and the second position of a divorce granted after 24 months where the parties have lived separately and apart. I suggest a third provision which could perhaps read something like this: 
A continuous period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of applications by both parties for dissolution of the marriage. 
That would preserve the 12 months concept for 2 people who do not have children or property where they can both file an application and, within 12 months, a divorce would be granted. That amendment would give to some of the supporters of clause 48 the thrust of that and it would preserve the benefits which are given under the existing law. I believe that the proposed amendment suggested by the honourable member for Wentworth, particularly paragraph (a), is good. I believe that the Bill in its present form is inadequate. I am not inclined to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lang, the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  on the basis that in paragraph (g) it states: 
That marriage should be dissolved only when a Court is satisfied on objective grounds that the marriage has irretrievably broken down or that the parties have lived separately and apart for not less than 2 years. 
I think that what I have outlined goes one step further. Before paragraph (g) there is some philosophical verbiage in the first part of the amendment which I feel is superfluous to the matter in question. Therefore I am inclined to support the proposition of the honourable member for Wentworth if he amends it in the manner I have suggested. 
Without wishing to be offensive to anyone, I suggest that the Bill in its present form is pretty much a playboy's Bill and does not pay much concern at all to the welfare of women. I believe that many supporters of the Bill are people who do not want to have their conduct exposed and who never want to be named as co-respondents in divorce proceedings. Today I received an hysterical letter from a group in my electorate. It is supposed to be a reasoned group. I cannot understand some of the letters that we members have received about this Bill. The only explanation I can give for them is that self-interest is involved. Therefore we should look past it. The weakness of clause 48 is that it attempts to enshrine in the law a misnomer. This matter has been canvassed in the House before. The clause asserts that the real reason for the breakdown is the fact that people live apart. Obviously, the real reason they live apart is something else, such as drunkenness, cruelty, or adultery. What we should be talking about in the law is the real reasons and not some misnomer which clause 48 seeks to enshrine in the Bill. The weakness of it is that, if a husband so desires, he can extinguish the marriage without any exposure of his own behaviour and he can extinguish his wife's right to maintenance. Under the present law she can be maintained in her old age, but the weakness of this Bill is that she will not receive maintenance if she is able to support herself. 
There should be some objectivity. Paragraph (a) of the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Wentworth gives that. It says 'having regard to the behaviour of the parties'. Certainly the question of behaviour must be looked at when one is also talking about custody. If a child is to be given to one parent or another, surely the behaviour of the parents must be looked at. If a court is to award custody of a child to a parent, the behaviour of the parents must be taken into account. In respect of injunctions against cruelty or protection sought by a wife, or perhaps by a husband, the behaviour must be looked at. The Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in his speech about a month ago gave some facts. He said that in New South Wales in 1972 there were 5069 convictions for assaults between husbands and wives. He went on to say that there were probably another 20 000 that were never mentioned. So the question of cruelty does arise. In injunction proceedings the behaviour must be taken into account. 
The proponents of the Bill say that if people go to court under clause 48 of the Bill the concept of fault- it is a question of behaviour, not faultdoes not arise. If there is a problem at home, perhaps involving cruelty, and a woman goes to court to obtain an injunction to restrain her husband she will have to go to court a number of times and the question of behaviour will be raised. In cases involving the custody of children and maintenance the question of behaviour must be looked at. If a good, conscientious woman wants to preserve a marriage, under the Bill she is dependent on the good will or the ill will of her husband. If he chooses to desert her, he can divorce her. Clause 72 says that a party to a marriage is liable to maintain the other party to the extent that the first mentioned party is reasonably able to do so if, and only if, that other party is unable to support herself or himself adequately. It goes on to speak about other things , but that is the basic meaning of it. If a woman is able to care for herself she is on her own. I think that when maintenance is considered, particularly in respect of children, the question of the behaviour of both parents must come into consideration, as must the fact that a woman may have given up her profession to be a faithful and conscientious wife. She may be cast aside and her profession lost. So in many respects behaviour will be considered in court- so why should it not be considered in the grounds for divorce in the first circumstances. 
Today I received a letter from a women's group urging me to support the Bill in its present form but, on the question of maintenance, urging me to consider an amendment to the Social Services Act to dispense with the 6 weeks waiting period for social services in the event that a husband turfs his wife out of their house. If that is not propping up the playboy concept, I do not know what is. It is not espousing the interests of women today to say of a conscientious woman who is trying to preserve a marriage and is doing the right thing by her husband and family that because her husband does not want her companionship any longer and she is forced from the house she must go to the Government and receive social services. The amount probably would not maintain her at the standard of living she had before. It would be demeaning for her to go and collect social services. It is an encumbrance on the Government, but it should remain an encumbrance on the man who undertook the responsibility of the marriage. I think that such a suggestion as I have had put to me is a lot of hogwash. It is time many of these trendy women's groups had a good look at themselves. It is curious that in the House of Representatives, where there is only one woman member, it falls to the lot of most male members of the House to protect women's rights against the wishes of many women's organisations. 
I believe that it is a very serious responsibility that has been placed upon us. Marriage is the very basis of the family and it has been the motivation of the bread winners in the families which has kept our society as we know it today going. The basic element of our society is the family. We want to preserve marriages. What we have to look at here is the law regarding the dissolution or the wash-up of a marriage. I believe that there should be no retrogression beyond the current position in the law. The amendment foreshadowed by the honourable member for Wentworth satisfies a number of wishes and objections. It looks at behaviour. It allows instant divorce. It gives divorce after 2 years if one party decides to separate from the other. Under the additional proposal which I suggested, if both parties without children make applications conjointly by consent, without contest they should be granted a divorce within 12 months. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  mentioned his support for this before I rose to speak. We share the same view. I think it is a suggestion which could defuse any antagonism from proponents of the Bill. If that were made an appendage to the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Wentworth, I think it could be successful. I would be voting for it. 
I do not say that there is not a lot of good will on the part of the proponents of the Bill. Of course there is. They want to change the law in the best interests of people. But I think though that their logic has erred in many places. As I said at the start, I believe that a lot of self-interest is involved when a matter like this arises, perhaps not from honourable members, but from supporters of the Bill. Many people do not want their behaviour scrutinised. They do not want to be named as co-respondents in divorce proceedings. They want to enshrine in the law that the reason for the dissolution of the marriage is that 2 people have lived apart. That is nonsense. People live apart for reasons. The law must look at the real reasons and provide for divorce in respect of them. The law must look after the parties who conscientiously have tried to preserve a marriage. Surely that is the least we can do in respect of this Bill. 
-We weary of the verbal barrages of Liberal Party hacks with their lines about the war in Vietnam. Several years ago the vote of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  meant that nearly 400 Australians died in Vietnam. If any of the families of those boys who died in Vietnam are listening to the debate, I inform them that he was one of the men who sent their sons to their death. Furthermore, he never said anything when napalm bombs were being dropped on children in the villages and when they were being sprayed with burning liquid. Perhaps we could have heard a few of the honourable member's bleatings a couple of years ago. So much for his hypocrisy. He also mentioned the way that the Australian Labor Party holds itself together and tried to suggest that there are divisions in the Party. Let me just say this: It is fair that the Parliament should discuss the machinations within the Liberal Party and the sad fact that the Australian people can no longer go to the polls and make a judgment upon the quality of a leader of the Opposition and have any confidence that that leader will be leading those parties for any length of time. 
Let us look at the tactics of the Opposition over the last few years and the disastrous influence in Australia of organisations outside the Parliament that have no responsibility to the Australian people. For example, there are the establishment in Victoria, the National Civic Council, the Bank of New South Wales, the radio stations and the newspapers, which pressure you fellows opposite like a lot of doughboys to change leaders at their behest. Such organisations destroyed Gorton because he was an Australian first and a Liberal second. What was his sin? He happened to say to the States that he did not believe they should have sovereignty over the off-shore areas of Australia. He was taking the Liberal Party somewhat to the left. It could not be tolerated. So they sacked him in the middle of his term as Prime Minister after he had gone to the people, secured a mandate and in that sense was a Prime Minister in his own right. Former Prime Minister McMahon was defeated when he went to the people and honourable members opposite did not have him as their leader any longer. They tipped him out of his position after they were removed from government. Then there was Snedden who was elected by your Party to be your leader. He went to the people less than a year ago and honourable members opposite campaigned and said that he would be their leader. They suggested him for the position of Prime Minister. Now he does not even sit on the front bench in the Parliament. He has been struck down by that treacherous assassin Fraser, the Tudor House boy with the Tudor style of politics who always, throughout his parliamentary career, has shown himself to be a treacherous personality. 
Let us look at what happens to the Opposition and at the influence of organisations outside the Parliament on it. For example, there is the National Civic Council. Look at the portfolios of the Leader of the Opposition when he was a Minister. He always had the ones important to the National Civic Council, such as Education. Prime Minister Menzies conspired with the National Civic Council to try to secure the Catholic vote by getting aid for private schools under false pretences to prop up the Greater Public Schools, the wealthy schools, and keep the Catholic vote. The National Civic Council said: 'Fraser gets Education' and he got Education. Later in his career the NCC said 'Fraser gets Defence. We cannot have anyone who is a bit wobbly on Defence'. They wanted a hard liner as Minister. So he got the Defence portfolio. It does not matter where one looks at it, the pressure from this group was on the Liberal Party when it was in office and of course it would be on it today. 
The spiritual home of the Leader of the Opposition is the National Civic Council. Make no mistakes about it. He is a hard line, reactionary, right wing character and this will carry on in the future. Do honourable members think that the middle of the road in Australia will get anything from the Leader of the Opposition? Do they think women's groups, conservationists, the young people or interests like economic nationalism will matter to a person like the Leader of the Opposition? What will matter is what the Bank of New South Wales or the New South Wales Liberal Party machine thinks, or what is thought by the 'Old Sugar Bags' of the Victorian establishment, the sort of people with whom  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack associates. Look at the machinations before the change of leader.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack held a meeting attended by  Senator Cotton,  who is the former  President  of the New South Wales Liberal Party machine.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack is a man of the Victorian machine. Look at the appointment to the front bench of the honourable members for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  the former senior Vice-President of the New South Wales machine. 
The honourable member for Bennelong and  Senator Cotton  were meeting the executives of the Bank of New South Wales who were pressuring them to change the leadership. The deals were done. The Australian people's wishes, the Opposition's promises to have the honourable member for Bruce as its Leader were cast aside and in the interests of shallow political manoeuvring the Opposition propped up the greatest hard liner in the Liberal Party because it believes that a hard, uncompromising line is a substitute for leadership and intelligence. I think the Opposition will find out very soon that the Australian people will not be conned by the subterfuges and deceptions which it seeks to put over them. They will recognise at an election that with the Leader of the Opposition at the helm of the Liberal Party as a government it would return to the politics of the 1 950s. 
Look at our position in the world in the 1 950s under  Sir Robert  Menzies when he was Prime Minister and under successive Liberal governments. We were fighting Asians in Asia- a white European continental nation in Asia and the only one fighting our neighbours. That was the Opposition's foreign policy. If we wanted to talk about Indonesia we talked to the Dutch. If we wanted to talk about India we talked to the British and if we wanted to talk about Indo-China we talked to the French. The Opposition parties cared not about any of the people who surround us. This Government has made steps to live with our neighbours. We are in a strengthened position in the world. But what would a government under the Leader of the Opposition do? It would go back to the shadows and dim, dark politics of the 50s when we were smarting at our Asian neighbours and living in fear of them all the time. 
Of course the bogy of defence comes out.  Mr Santamaria  appears on television on Sunday with his staccato chatter and the Leader of the Opposition gets his orders during the week. Members of the Opposition perform in this chamber and so the old line is flogged again. The 
Australian people will not cop it and nor they should. After the paltry change of leadership, the assassination of the honourable member for Bruce, the Leader of the Opposition put on the great act of statesmanship and said that members of the front bench would have no outside interests. What about his 8000-acre property? Do honourable members think that is not an interest or does not take time? What about some of the other people here who have interests?  Senator Cotton  has a business. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  runs a farm.  Senator Rae  is a barrister.  Senator Durack,  that hack for the mining interests in Western Australia, is a barrister. The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  runs a farm. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  runs a piggery. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  runs a farm and the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  runs a farm. 
They give half hearted support. They give lip service to their work in this place. All this stuff from the Leader of the Opposition about his ruling the roost is the old schoolboy mentality- 6 cuts and 500 lines for someone who does not follow the rules and do as he is told. The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  honestly said that he would like to keep up his practice before the Bar. He is a good barrister and an eminent legal practitioner. He was told: 'No. You have to put up the show. You are supposed to say that it is only token and then we will put you on the front bench'. There are no marks for him for going on the front bench in those circumstances. What has happened on the other side of the House has been a sham performance. It has been brought about by pressures from all of the outside interests in Australia- the mining industry which pressures the Leader of the Australian Country Party and the Liberal Party, the Bank of New South Wales which nearly drove this economy to the brink of suicide because it would not go to the Reserve Bank under the Labor Government and pay penal rates of interest because it could not manage its affairs. It was nearly insolvent a year ago. This sort of organisation runs the Liberal Party. 
The Press barons are still there. They have all the radio and television stations, a complete centralisation of the media. The Liberal Party knows where the power is and it takes its orders. The cream of the establishment does not come to this Parliament; only the second string of business and the second string of law come here in the Liberal Party. These second stringers come here representing the establishment and that is what is wrong. At least in the early days of this Parliament there was some quality in conservative politicians but now only second raters who cannot earn a dollar themselves and cannot do well in their own profession are picked up by the bright boys of the establishment. They come into Parliament and they take their orders. But of course the establishment needs to slot in a few people who have ability and it is the job of the outside interests to make sure that the able people drift to the top. Of course they are able inasmuch as they take their orders from outside interests to which the Australian people have no recourse. 
When the Australian Labor Party is in government people have recourse to it. Our organisations are open to the public People understand what the Party is. It is not a special interest group. The Opposition does all this under the guise of respectability and statesmanship. How ludicrous and how shallow can one get? Shame on members of the Opposition for destroying a man who worked hard and got a decent electoral result for them. They never gave him a chance to go to another poll. They assassinated him in the middle of his term. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The previous  speaker  dealt with the question of defence homes, and he was the exception rather than the rule because most of this debate has centred around the Government's economic policies. He also alluded to the misapprehension that the Government is printing money. This is the latest confidence trick that the Liberal Party is trying to float around Australia. In fact what is happening is that the Government is running a domestic deficit of about $ 1,900m. It is pretty much the same as the deficit which the previous Government ran in 1972 during the days of Prime Minister McMahon and it is a deficit which we have seen on a number of occasions over the last 20 years. One of the astonishing things about the management of the Australian Government's affairs is that the quite disproportionate amount of money which the Commonwealth of Australia collects is paid through its revenue, through its Budget, into capital works. Australia is peculiar in the Western world for financing so much of its capital works from revenue. If capital works were excluded, these deficits would not show up in the manner in which they do. -Suffice it to say that the reason the deficit exists is to endeavour to reflate the Australian economy. I will not recount the details of the speech made by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews),  who canvassed the economic mismanagement of the former Liberal Government in 1 972. 
Honourable members would have heard many speakers in the House in the last few weeks espouse the cause of Milton Friedman about economic management, but what they did not say was that he also said that mismanagement of the exchange rates took  2Yi  years to show up in the figures. It is because the Liberal-Country Party Government mismanaged the exchange rate of Australia that Australia has found itself in a dire inflationary position, and because of an endeavour by this Government to correct and manage demand inflation the economy went into a downturn. We have reflated it and at the moment the reflation cost is $ 1 ,900m. Perhaps it is a gamble the Government should not have taken, but I believe that unemployment has a more important priority than inflation in the immediate term and if unemployment can be corrected with a deficit of this nature then I think it ought to be corrected. 
The thing that all parties in this House do not say is that every year the tax burden on the people of this country is increasing. The Liberals never mentioned it when they were in office. We criticised them for it when we were in Opposition. We are just as guilty as they are for leaving the tax scales exactly and precisely where they were during their tenure of office. This week I turned up an interesting publication, namely, the monthly report of the Australian Industries Development Association in which was a table which I now seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard. 
I desire to ask the Prime Minister a question. Can he say whether there is any substance in reports that a Soviet vessel last year installed or attempted to install an electronic bug on a coral reef in Australian waters? 
Is the Attorney-General aware that, as part of the party political campaign the Australian Mutual Provident Society is currently conducting at the expense of its policy holders, the Society has written to employees instructing them to send letters to members of Parliament opposing the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill? Can he give the House any indication of the reasons for this opposition or is it merely another example of opposition by the AMP to the Government program as a whole? 
I shall take up a couple of points raised by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  At one stage he seemed to contradict his own logic. He said that most divorces take place within a 12-month  period. Indeed they do. I think the strength of the amendment circulated by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  is that the court is obliged to consider the behaviour of the parties in camera. Under the amendment one party or the other may choose, for a number of reasons- drunkenness, cruelty, incest or whatever- to lodge a petition within the 12  months. They can do that under the amendment circulated by the honourable member for Wentworth. It seems that they cannot do that under the BUI at present, and that is a weakness. I could not understand why the right honourable member for Higgins supported one aspect and not the other. The amendment circulated by the honourable member for Wentworth has a number of advantages, for the reason I have just outlined and also because it makes a divorce available upon the consent of both parties after they have lived separately and apart for  12  months and it allows divorce on the application of one party after the parties have lived separately and apart for  2  years, but in unusual and perhaps pressing circumstances a divorce would be available under subparagraph (c) of the amendment, in which case the court can consider the behaviour of the parties in camera. 
I think it is worth reiterating the point made by the mover of the amendment, namely, that the court in fact would be considering behaviour and not apportioning blame. I think the reason why he did not mention the specific grounds which are present in the existing law is that he wanted to have the court in a position where it was not considering the question of fault on the old grounds. In fact a judge will look at the state of the marriage and will not apportion blame. He will do it in camera and not in public. Therefore it seems to me that a genuine safeguard is built into the situation by which we preserve the best of the existing law. It is no good throwing out the baby with the bath water. We should not slavishly follow the Bill which has been given to us and allow divorce on the basis of 12 months separation as the only ground for divorce and throw out all the safeguards of the existing law which allow divorce in less than the 12-month period or beyond it. I think the amendment preserves the best aspects of the law, yet takes away the fault concept. The court needs to look at the state of the marriage rather than to apportion blame or fault. As the proposer of the amendment has pointed out, the so-called guilty party who petitioned a court for a divorce could be granted a divorce on the basis of the state of the marriage although the state of marriage may be due to solely to that party's behaviour. So I believe that the amendment is a good compromise. Not only is it a compromise but it is superior to the proposition encompassed in clause 48 of the Bill because under that clause during a period of less than 12 months a party to a marriage has no recourse other than to go to a court perhaps to get an injunction against the behaviour of the other party. But injunction proceedings are not held in camera; they are in public In such cases the behaviour of the parties must be taken into account. Obviously a person cannot seek an injunction to restrain the other party if that person cannot talk about the other party's behaviour, so behaviour is raised in injunction proceedings. 
Behaviour or fault is talked about in custody cases. As most marriages are marriages with children behaviour needs to be considered in determining which person is to be awarded custody of the child. So in injunction cases and in custody cases the court considers behaviour. Under the amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth there is a period of 12 months for consent divorce and a period of 2 years separation when the application for a divorce is made by one party, but there is the overriding behavioural aspect which applies only in extenuating circumstances. The honourable member has built into his amendment a check and balance to provide that the behavioural aspect of the clause cannot be used in cases in which the other 2 provisions are applicable. It seems to me that this is a sensible compromise and a sensible proposition, and I think it ought to be carried by the Committee. 
I ask the Minister for Min erals and Energy: What relevance has the announced contract between the Gas and Fuel Corporation of Victoria and Esso-Hematite to the pricing of natural gas from the North-west Shelf? 
I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy a question. What steps does the Minister plan to assist coal search and coal research, including liquefaction? 
I think the 2 speeches we have just heard from members of the Opposition are very pathetic. On numerous occasions the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  has come into this chamber and spoken about the Government's handling of minerals and energy in Australia. But of course, as he has gone back to the people who sent him here- the Australian Mining Industry Council and the other minersthey have told him: 'Go quietly; Connor is doing very well, thank you very much, and we do not need your assistance any more'. So, to make himself relevant, today he picks up a completely new tack- a tack which the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  described as scurrilous, and I think that is the only way it could be described. 
The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  talked about our antagonising our trading partners; he talked about international economic blackmail. Now, getting price increases for Australian commodities is international economic blackmail yet a year ago the Opposition criticised the Government for not getting price increases. Do we ever hear the members of the Opposition or the Leader of the National Country Party saying that Japan is paying too much for wool? No. The Leader of the National Country Party was out in front of Parliament House the other day acting to a group of Country Party supporters, trying to encourage the Government to stand by the 250c floor price for wool. Where is the logic in his argument? Why does he not say that the Government should not stand up for wool? He says that we are not to ask for increases in the price of iron ore, coal and other such commodities, yet we are to ask for increases in the price of wheat, wool, butter and beef. He says that our boards- the Australian Wheat Board and the wool board- should go to our trading partners for higher prices. It is a completely lopsided and scurrilous approach. 
I do not know where the Leader of the Country Party thinks his interests are served; whether he thinks the Japanese Government will be indebted to him or that the Japanese Ambassador to Australia will write a nice letter back to Tokyo about him. They think he is a fool; they always thought he was a fool. They thought the former Government were fools because they could not extract decent prices from Japan for our commodities. Everyone in the world knows that Nippon Steel buys on behalf of the Government of Japan. That company went to South America and came to Australia with one united voice, to buy. What were we doing? We were sending our coal and iron ore producers to Japan where they were competing, one against the other- Queensland producers of coal against New South Wales producers and the various consortiums in Western Australia competing against each other. This Minister for Minerals and Energy has given the Australian mining industry a chance to survive. Coal prices have increased by 250 per cent since we took office, but they are at the world parity. Could anyone argue seriously that if the price of oil is to move up, substitute energy commodities will not move up to about the same price per British thermal unit, or whichever term is used to describe the energy content of any particular commodity. Of course not. Uranium prices will move up until they are somewhat equivalent to oil prices and the same applies to coal prices. 
But we have never said that we will deny these commodities to Japan. The whole thrust of our policy under this Government has been one of continuing co-operation with Japan and of guarantees of raw materials at the world parity price. Japan respects this. It knows we will not be conned or fooled any longer. For the Leader of the National Country Party to come into this House as a Leader of a Party and to say that this is international economic blackmail is like bis saying to the iron ore producers and the coal producers: 'I am arguing in Parliament these days for a reduction in the price of your exports'. Let him see how far he would get with that remark. Let him get up and say: 'I am putting it around these days that your are charging Japan and other countries too much'. I do not think that that would get very much of a reception. Let him say that to  Sir Charles  Court or to Hancock or to Carnegie from Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd or to the Utah coal mining company. Let him see what they would say when he says that about their prices. I know what they would say: They would say he is a clown, and he is. 
Honourable members opposite talked about stifling Japan's trading capacity. In the time we have taken office, Japan's exports of steel have moved up from $5.5 billion to $ 1 1 .5 billion. How does Japan get that sort of growth unless it is able to trade in the world? Japan is able to trade in the world. There is no doubt that Japan was knocked around by the increases in oil prices. We do not deny that. But Japan will adjust to it. Its prices will move up. The Japanese will live with it. We are prepared to do what we can with regard to uranium. We have honoured the contracts entered into by the former Government to supply uranium to Japan at the time that the Japanese want it. We are prepared to deplete our own stockpiles to do so. We have set up the 
Ranger projects to replenish our own stockpiles and to fulfil ongoing contracts. 
The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  talked about uranium enrichment. There is an agreement between the Japanese and ourselves to look at feasibility studies in coal hydrogenation, that is to get petroleum products from coal, and also uranium enrichment. But with regard to uranium enrichment, it is true to say that the Japanese have been wary; they have held out. The point is that we have the technology now and we have found a lot of uranium ourselves. It is a gambling position. We are prepared to gamble with them- to wait. But we have the technology; we have the raw material. Why should we not press a harder bargain? That is what it is all about. We are prepared to give them enriched fuel but that does not mean to say that we should be laid down and raped by them because they are our trading partners. We are prepared to give them fair treatment and they have received fair treatment from us. 
One of the things that have been done by the Minister for Minerals and Energy since he has been in office has been to put our relationship with Japan on a decent and equitable basis. Japan understands that in the future Australia will trade with it and guarantee raw materials. But at-the same time Japan realises that it has to pay a fair world price. Why should the returns of the Australian people be depreciated in deference to a scurrilous sort of concept raised by the Leader of the National Country Party- that it is international blackmail? That is just a lot of rubbish, and he knows it. Let him get up and say to the coalminers and the iron ore miners in Western Australia that he is arguing for lower coal prices. A year ago he was in the pocket of ESSOBHP trying to get the crude oil price agreement raised at the expense of the Australian motorist from $2.09 a barrel to around $8 a barrel. That is now a lame duck issue. He is now taking another tack and saying that we are too tough on Japan, and that we all ought to be saying: 'Oh, the Japanese cannot afford it. What a terrible thing we are doing to them'. We are being fair with them, and they know it. They know that the ride that they had when honourable members opposite were in office is over. 
They get 45 per cent of their total coal supplies from Australia; they will probably get more in the future. We are now starting to supply them with steaming coal. We are doing that as a supplement to their supply of oil. Nevertheless, Japan's problems with pollution and the environment are of prime consideration to us. If they were to supply all their energy needs with oil, they would literally need a string of oil tankers end on end from the Middle East to Japan. The environmental problems of sulphur dioxide in the atmosphere and of all the other pollutants which come from burning hydrocarbons is such that in a small area such as Japan, this will be an inhibiting factor. Therefore Japan is interested in moving into nuclear power and enriched fuel. We are prepared to give the Japanese any amount of fuel that they need, enriched if we can do so. The only thing is that we would like to do the enriching. Instead of sending just yellow cake at bargain basement prices we want to get the profit that comes from enrichment. We do not want the stuff to be sent to the United States or the Soviet Union or any place else where Japan may choose to have it enriched. A good offer is before Japan. It can come in with Australia on enrichment if it wishes. If it wants to wait until we develop the technology and secure the capital, as we have the raw material, it will wait too long. The Japanese should get off their tails and move into this undertaking. They should do something about it rather than hang out and wait until possibly we are suckered in to some of the arguments raised by the Leader of the National Country Party. 
What really rocks me is what the Leader of the National Country Party thought was the advantage of the line that he took today in this Parliament. What possible advantage will result for the Japanese, the Australian people or the producers of these commodities from the argument that the prices are too high? Clearly the prices are not. They are at world parity and, in some cases, a little bit less. There has been co-operation in terms of quantity. More is being exported to Japan. We are decent trading partners. We have taken a great deal of manufactured exports from the Japanese. With respect to motor vehicles, we almost allowed our own motor car industry to be dislocated out of deference to imports from Japan to try to correct the trade imbalance that existed. The speech by the Leader of the National Country Party was a scurrilous attempt to make his policies relevant at a time when they have been discredited by the Minister for Minerals and Energy who has proved over and over again that he has the respect of the Japanese Government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The discussion is concluded. 
I ask the Treasurer: Does he see any increase or upturn in activity in the economy? How does he see the economy at present in relation to the performance of the Australian economy since the Government took office? 
I ask a question of the Prime Minister. Have the pleas of the Leader of the Opposition for 'minimum controls over the pursuit of alternative life styles compatible with human dignity' had any impact upon the Government's priorities or will the Government regard this advice, as the Melbourne  Age  does, as imprecise, disturbing waffle? 
-I do not disagree with a lot of what the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  has said, but I think he is speaking a lot wider than the ambit of the legislation permits. He talked about overseas companies and corporations being entitled to certainty. Perhaps they are entitled to certainty when they invest in a fledgling industry, but are they entitled to certainty when they want to come in and take over an Australian business? I do not know the intention of the Department of the Treasury or of the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  in some of the aspects of this Foreign Takeovers Bill. But I bet that when we get down to the kernel of the matter, with the overseas provisions and the question of companies dealing company to company in another country we will find that they are largely conditioned by the New Zealand experience where a company like Industrial Equity Ltd has been a corporate raider in Australia operating across the Tasman. If it has any corporate problems it adjusts things in New Zealand so as to suit the situation here. These sorts of things have been going on. 
We can look at all the classic takeover merchants. Slater, Walker Ltd has built up a fortune in Great Britain out of the simple technique of taking over on the stock exchange companies with undervalued assets. So if one could find an accountant of an old firm who would co-operate and tell one what the real asset valuation of a company was- money directors are lazy and like to see a good return on profit as a percentage of capital and so they leave the capital value of the assets underwritten- the underwritten assets would be a fair mark for a corporate raider. 
Drug Houses of Australia Ltd as mentioned by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Some other examples are Tjuringa Securities Ltd, Angus and Robertson Ltd and Toledo Berkel (Australia) Ltd. We can think of dozens of them. One of the classic cases was Angus and Robertson where Gordon Barton of Ipec Insurance Ltd fame came in and bought Angus and Robertson for a song. The takeover company stripped the assets, grabbed the building and left the business as virtually a hollow shell. The publishing section was taken to Great Britain. The last I saw of that once famous Australian publishing company was when it was selling books and records in a shopfront in Pitt 
Street, Sydney. This legislation is to protect Aus.tralian companies against that sort of thing. There is nothing good and productive about this type of activity. The legislation is being beefed up to cover this sort of contingency. 
Members of the Liberal Party point proudly to the fact that they were the people who brought in the legislation. The position is as the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  said earlier: The horse has bolted. Because of the sad history of Australia, because of the pressures of the National Country Parry of Australia upon the Liberal Party and because of the undervalued currency in 1970, 1971 and 1972 there was a rush of money into this country. This happened to coincide with the fact that the wild west stock exchanges of Australia had most of Australia's major companies in a position where their shares were available on the Australian stock exchanges at less than the asset backing of the company on a shareholding basis or on the value of the shares. So such companies were a prime target for takeover not only by the larger predator Australian companies but also by foreign companies in particular which had a bet running to nothing. The undervalued currency at one stage had to be revalued so such companies made a capital gain and got in on the ground floor in relation to assets which were very cheap. This was because the former government did nothing about a securities and exchange commission or about dragging the wild west stock exchanges into line. When the mining boom blew out in 1970 all it left was a lot of disappointed people. Confidence in any significant way has not yet returned to the stock exchanges of Austrafia since the mining boom experience. So we had company assets available cheaply even to Australians, but considering that our currency was undervalued they were exceptionally cheap to foreigners. That is why the Government has been interested in protecting these things. 
It saddens me that members of the Liberal Party keep talking about the great benefits of foreign investment in Australia. I do not have such a dogmatic view that I say that every foreign company in Australia is bad or that such companies do not contribute anything to Australia because that is not true. But by the same token there is an enormous capacity for Australians to finance their own wellbeing and their own development. Australian capital savings are about the highest per capita in the world. Australian domestic capital formation is exceptionally high on the basis of local savings when compared with most countries. 
The Fitzgerald report of only 1 8 months ago, the inquiry into the Australian mining industry, revealed that even in large corporations like Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd in Western Australia, though there was a lot of money standing to the credit of foreign corporations in fact most of it had been raised in the Australian capital market. It was not money that the companies had brought from Great Britain or the United States to Australia; it was money which they raised in Australia. That is the case with Esso-BHP. Some of the money was raised by the Broken Hill Pty Company Ltd in Australia and some was put in by Esso, foreign money, but most of it for that corporation was raised in Australia from the Australian capital market. So the consideration of the proposition that we should stand in awe of foreign capital I just do not think holds up. That is why the Government has been interested to make sure that this foreign takeover legislation has some teeth in it. 
As I said before, the legislation was introduced by the McMahon Government after there had been an enormous number of takeovers. One could turn up the  Australian Financial Review  in 1970 on a Monday or Tuesday, the day it printed all of the current financial takeovers, and see there more than a page of details of takeovers every week, for the reasons I mentioned before. When pressure was applied, finally the McMahon Government had to do something about the situation. It brought in this piece of legislation, inadequate as it was. 
That is right. The legislation was introduced, inadequate as it was, because the issue of economic nationalism was a growing and important issue, and it was an election yearthat was another consideration. Over the period the Foreign Takeovers Committee of the Treasury has advised successive Treasurers, and even though the Act limits the power only to disqualifications of taking over the acquisition of voting shares. On a policy basis and on an administrative basis the Treasurer was able to investigate takeovers and to refuse some takeovers. Though we had not power under the Act to do it in many cases- it was voluntary- this was nevertheless accepted by the companies concerned because they realised that it needed only the passing through the Parliament of an Act to provide the power if they wanted to run the gauntlet of refusing to accept the decision of the Treasurer in that regard. We have looked at the experience of working with this legislation on a voluntary basis and with the advice of the 
Foreign Takeovers Committee. We have extended, in heu of bringing in this Bill, the former Act on 2 occasions to make it current until, I think, the end of this year. 
It is not a matter of working outside the law; it is a matter of the Commonwealth Parliament having the power to pass an Act in this matter. The stick is in the cupboard. It is only a matter of bringing it out. The companies understood that the Parliament had the power. It was only a matter of the Government bringing it in. But the companies also understood that the Government was interested to bring in the right Bill with decent - 
It has nothing to do with illegal pressure. The honourable member for Curtin is typical of all the lackeys from Western Australia who - 
I take the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  to task for what he said about the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as applied to Vietnamese migrants in Australia. He might consider for a moment applying the same argument to the period only a few years ago when the Party to which he belongs shot and destroyed Vietnamese people in an undeclared war in Vietnam, not because of any territorial infringements on Australia by the Vietnamese and without a declaration of war. So much for his pious words. The Liberal Party has used the Vietnamese people for its own political ends since about 1965, and apparently it continues to do so. I think the speech of the honourable member for Bradfield could be regarded as complete humbug. 
I want to speak today about the marvellous protestations and speeches of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of recent times and to refer in particular, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  did, to the speech by the Leader of the Opposition at a National Press Club luncheon. I point out to the House that it is 4 months since the Leader of the Opposition took power in Australia as leader of the alternative government. To date there has been no enunciation of policy by him. He has been preoccupied with ridding his own Party of all vestiges of Sneddenism. The moderates in the Liberal Party are completely persona non grata. It is a case of cleaning out the stable. Anyone with any moderate thoughts has been suppressed and expunged from the Liberal political landscape. It is a case of returning to the right. The whole idea is to have a general drift back to the right, unfortunately for Australia. Again we see the hair trigger mentality being displayed. An amusing article written last Sunday related that the Leader of the Opposition became so annoyed because apparently one of the bulls on his home property in the electorate of Wannon was breaking through the fence regularly that finally he leaned over the fence with a shotgun and blew its brains out. The same hair trigger mentality applied when be blew the brains out of his former leader, Prime Minister Gorton. When Prime Minister Gorton annoyed him to the point where it was intolerable for him, he denounced his Prime Minister, knifed him and destroyed him. 
He has confirmed all along up to date that his politics remain on the right. He said in the National Press Club speech: 
I have no intention of leading a government which is only going to socialise Australia at a slower pace than Labor. 
In other words, there is to be no return to Gortonism. Moderation will not be in vogue at all. It is to be the hard line all the way. The Leader of the Opposition is to be the high priest of small government. No longer is big government to be considered. There is to be a tearing down of wealth equalisation. He believes in privilege. He says that he rejects enforced equality which will result from things such as Medibank, which will give protection to people who in the past could not afford to insure themselves against health expenses. Of course, that is under challenge by him in the event of the return of a Liberal government. Things such as child care benefits, free university education for children who could not afford to go to a university, equality in taxation, redistribution of incomes and all those things he calls enforced equality will be rejected. In other words, privilege will be restored. That is what he really campaigns upon. 
His speech to the National Press Club was couched in marvellous imprecision. There was nothing precise about it. In fact, the Melbourne  Age,  which could not be described as a journal supporting this Government, said that his speech was imprecise, disturbing waffle. They are the words of a respected journal, the Melbourne  Age,  about his speech. It was the first major speech he has made since he became Leader of the Opposition. He said that if he becomes Prime Minister he intends to give an exciting choice in education, as if to say that people in Australia today have no choice in education. What rubbish! If people want to send their children to a private school they can; if they seek to send them to a public school they can. All the Government has done has been to try to see that all schools in Australia are fit for children to go to. As the honourable member for Port Adelaide mentioned, when we came to power in 1972, there were 1020 schools described by the Schools Commission as being sub-standard, affecting 400 000 children. To bring them up to a decent standard of education and a decent standard of quality is, in the terms of the Leader of the Opposition, enforced equality. 
On the one hand he talks about enforced equality, and then on the other hand he says in terms of Government spending that he intends to encourage immediate massive investment in private industry through investment allowances and restructured taxes. So in respect of anything which affects the community in general, there is no big government for the middle-income earners and the lower-income earners. There is no government participation to help them to improve their standard of living, but there is government participation to make sure that all of the benefits are returned to industry. 
When the Leader of the Opposition talks about enforced equality in education what he means is that all the previous benefits will return to the upper crust and that tax deductions will be there for them to send their children to the greater public schools and the rest. He says he will wreck the Prices Justification Tribunal. He will banish that because it has been an impediment to prosperity. The fact that for years the major corporations in Australia have had no scrutiny has led Australia into the position where inflation is in a bad situation, but he intends to get rid of that tribunal. 
He says he wants freedom to strive, to achieve and to seek excellence, freedom to be different and freedom to conform. Have honourable members ever heard so much drivel from the leader of a major Australian party? If the Leader of the Labor Party had proposed that sort of rubbish in 1972 he would not have been elected Prime Minister, nor should he have been. Here is this man, because of the problem of inflation and because he believes that the Government's stocks are down in the electorate, thinking that he will inherit the mantle of the Primeministership. But I put it to the House: 'On what?'. What is his policy? Where is his policy? There is not one explanation on policy, just all of these generalities and they are all couched in such oblique terms as to serve whichever policy he would like to introduce into the laws of this land. 
He says the Liberals reject enforced equality in the workplace, in the economy and in education. He says a Liberal government will use example, encouragement and specific legislation to rid our country of discrimination. So he is going to use legislation to rid our country of discrimination; that is apparently to ensure that there are not the great gaps between privilege in Australia. He is going to rid Australia, on the one hand, of equality and on the other hand he says he rejects enforced equality in the workplace, in the economy and in education. He rejects any moves to deal with discrimination yet he says in the same speech, 2 paragraphs away, that there will be specific legislation to rid our country of discrimination. How could anybody trust this man? How could anybody rely upon him at all? What is  Mr Fraser  's view of where Australia should be going? He has no view, of course. All he knows is that he is propped up by the establishment to work for the establishment, to work for privilege in Australia. The whole tone of his addresses on so many occasions now has been against what he terms government interference in the lives of Australians, which is just so much rubbish. 
Again he offers criticisms of taxation. He said in his speech that the tax on average weekly earnings should be reduced for the average working man. We reduced it in this Budget from 48c to 35c in $ 1 and he is reported to have said in today's Press that the tax reforms would only encourage people to be spendthrifts. So on the one hand he says in a speech that there should be a reduction in taxation that applies to average weekly earnings and when we virtually index tax for the $6,000 to $9,000 a year group and reduce the application of tax on that group to 35c in $ 1 he says that it encourages people to be spendthrifts. This Budget saves about $530 per annum for the 2-child family- over $10 a week relief. In addition, this Government has provided Medibank, which is available to everyone in the community, child care facilities, urban development and all these other infrastructures which go to improving the quality of living for people on or below average weekly earnings. It should not be considered that most Australians are on average weekly earnings. Of course most Australians earn less than average weekly earnings. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. By the way,  Mr Speaker,  I do not have any assets in Italy. The only asset I have there at the moment is my wife who is on a visit. On the question of assets, is the Prime Minister aware that the owner of an 8000 acre property at Nareen in Victoria, is advocating the restoration of the superphosphate subsidy whereby the property would attract approximately $17,000 a year, placing it in the top 50 recipients of the subsidy? Would the restoration of the subsidy cost $30m of taxpayers' money to subsidise the owners of properties such as at Nareen, and did not Commissioner Robinson of the Industries Assistance Commission say that such restoration was merely a token gesture? Would the Prime Minister look beyond the self-interested pleas of large property owners when reviewing the Industries Assistance Commission report? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I do not want to be rude, but the speech of the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  was just crammed full of meaningless generalities, such as the statements that social welfare must be paid for and that the health scheme is not free. What pearls of wisdom they are! Of course the health scheme is not free. The Government asked the Opposition to agree to the passage of a Bill that would have enabled levy to be imposed upon taxpayers of 1.35 per cent but it rejected such a proposition in the Senate. So the health appropriations are now a part of the overall budgetary appropriations. As such they serve as virtually a reduction in income tax because this service is now provided by us without members of the public having to pay into medical funds. 
The right honourable member said that social welfare must be paid for. Of course it must be paid for. The Liberal and Country Parties want the best of both worlds. They want a fortune to be pumped into companies, they want social welfare to be improved and they want government spending to be cut, but when we ask them to get down to the kernel of the matter and provide details as to what they would do they are not able to do so. We had the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  coming into this chamber with a speech that was critical of all the indirect taxes that we have proposed in the Budget and then we had the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  slinking in here today with a document saying that the Opposition now supports all the indirect taxes. Let the Opposition make up its mind. The Leader of the Opposition cannot make a speech in this House on the Budget that has any claim to validity if it decries the things that the Government does and at the same time accepts what has been done for budgetary purposes. 
The former Leader of the Liberal Party of Australia- the right honourable member for Bruce- talked about deficit financing. He asked how the deficit was to be financed. He said that that question remained unanswered. He knows very well but was not honest enough to say it that we cannot go onto the loan market and sell Commonwealth bonds to finance the deficit because that would drive interest rates up to appallingly high levels. At the moment treasury notes are at about 8.7 per cent. The right honourable gentleman knows full well that we financed the deficit last year by taking in government securities that were not normally available and money that was in the LGS ratio- the liquid assets and government securities ratio- of the banking system, money that was not otherwise lendable. The principle that applies is that if the Government pays for its deficit without reducing someone else's holdings it is doing something that is inflationary. We accept that fact. So we have reduced the deficit. Honourable members opposite know that the deficit would have been something of the order of about $5,000m in the event of our continuing with our expenditure commitments of last year. That deficit has been reduced to $2,500m. We have not tried to cover that deficit with increases in income tax. We have reduced income tax. We have not only reduced income tax but also scaled it back dramatically. So much for the generalities that the right honourable gentleman tried to pass off as cogent argument. 
The whole purpose of this Budget is to consolidate what the Government has done in office by way of its programs and reforms, with fiscal responsibility. It is a compromise between accelerating government expenditure which feeds inflation, and a sharp tightening up in government spending, which would dislocate the economy. We have gone to neither extreme. We have accepted a happy compromise in the interests of" promoting growth in the economy and recovery in the private sector. We have continued in this Budget to consolidate reforms. We have not run out on election promises and scrapped programs. At the same time we have adjusted the taxation system so that the incidence of taxation is lower. We have reduced company tax by a further 2.5 per cent. I might make the point that when we came to office the tax rate for public companies was 47.5c in the dollar. It is now down to 42.5c. In 2 years there has been a reduction of 5 per cent. We have put forward quite heavy pension increases. We will be paying those in November and later again in autumn. As well as that we have included Medibank in the Budget, which covers all Australian people for medical and hospital care. We have also continued to spend on education, which is contrary to what the pundits thought. They thought that we would rip the education allocation to pieces. We have continued a high level of spending on education as it is one of the Government's priorities. 
Much has been said about deficits and how a government should handle its budgetary situation. What the right honourable member for Bruce did not say about last year's deficit is that we would have had a lower deficit under normal circumstances but contingencies arose. Unemployment sprang up, particularly in rural areas. We brought in the Regional Employment Development scheme to cover that contingency. There was the cyclone disaster in Darwin which resulted in unexpected expenditure being incurred. Are honourable members opposite suggesting that we should have left the people in the streets to look after themselves and not have spent that money because last August we came up with a document that said that the Budget deficit should be such an amount and no more? Of course not. We had to put money where it was needed. 
We were unable to contain the deficit at where it normally would have been, without relying on income tax to cover it or by properly financing the deficit by going on to the Australian loan market and exchanging the money held by people in savings banks for Commonwealth bonds. To make Commonwealth bonds attractive enough, interest rates have to be put up quite dramatically. As everybody knows, Commonwealth securities set the pace for interest rates in Australia. If they were to move up appreciably, by a couple of percentage points, interest rates in the banking sector, the general credit sector and the permanent building societies would rise rather dramatically. So the resort to raising money on the Commonwealth bond market was put aside and the Government opted for not putting up interest rates. 
Last year was the first year in which the Government's scheme of mortgage tax deductibility for home owners to reduce the incidence of interest applied. That has reduced significantly the interest rates on homes. It was a conscious policy of the Government throughout the last 8 months to have a general reduction in interest rates. The Government has done that by paying a very low price for government securities. It has meant that there has been a flood of capital to the private sector, and not to the public sector, with the general aim of reducing the rates of interest in the private sector. 
A government has very limited options when it comes to its budgetary problems. A 15 per cent cut in Government spending, which was often espoused by the Leader of the Opposition and his cohorts, just does not stand up. It is impossible to cut government spending in many areas. Pensions cannot be cut by 15 per cent. Medibank benefits cannot be cut by 15 per cent. Repatriation benefits cannot be cut by 15 per cent. The salaries of Commonwealth employees cannot be cut by 15 per cent. That means that the areas in which expenditure can be reduced are very limited. The areas in which government spending can be reduced probably represent 40 per cent or 50 per cent of the total spending. So, reductions in those areas would have to be massive to have any effect. It would be very easy to cut expenditure across the board, but it would be cruel to reduce pensions, repatriation benefits or salaries. Why should people in the service of the Commonwealth be subjected to that? It is very difficult for a government to set its priorities. 
Last year there was an acceleration in government outlays, and the government decided this year that they would be contained. In last year's Budget outlays rose by about 46 per cent, which was quite dramatic. In this year's Budget outlays Will increase by only 23 per cent- half that amount. The Budget outlays will total $22,000m, but normally they would have been about $25,000m. So, the outlays remain at about 30 per cent of gross domestic product. As I outlined to the House before, because of the contingencies which arose and because of the shocking neglect of 23 years of ineffectual government before we came to power, the amount of spending in the social welfare, education and urban development areas in particular had to be massive; the expenditure outlays had to be massive to overcome the anomalies that were present in the Aus.tralian community. 
So, in the last financial year the outlays as a proportion of gross domestic product moved up by about 6 per cent. I would argue- I think that most people on this side of the House would agree- that that was too much, that the economy could not stand a switch of 6 per cent in the proportion of gross domestic product going to government outlays. The fact is that the economy took that shock and the outlays moved up from about 20 per cent to 30.5 per cent. This year we have maintained government outlays at about 30 per cent of gross domestic product, which represents an increase of half the increase in government outlays last year. To put it another way, if we were to continue with our expenditures this year as we did last year, the Budget outlays as a proportion of gross domestic product would be about 33 per cent instead of 30 per cent. Frankly that would be just too much. All the economic rationalists and the people with sense on both sides of the Parliament would agree that that is the case. So we are faced with the situation that we want to relieve the burden of income tax. 
The Liberals and the Leader of the Opposition speaks as if the progressive income tax scales were invented by us. The income tax scales were set up under a Liberal-Country Party Government in 1954-55 and with some adjustments have continued all the way through. Particularly in times of inflation, the application of those scales imposed a severe penalty upon anyone with an increasing income but not an increasing standard of living. We recognised that fact. At the same time, it was impossible for us to adopt the full import of the Mathews Committee recommendations, not only on personal payasyou earn income tax which it was suggested we index but on companies with regard to stock valuation. In order to do this we would have had to forgo $ 1,000m in revenue and to do that we would have had to chop $ 1,000m out of our expenditures to cover it. Frankly, the Government was unable to see where it could reduce its expenditure any more taking into consideration all the human factors which come into the expenditures of the Government. It was impossible to reduce expenditure. So we were faced with the choice: Did we want another $ 1,000m deficit or did we want to go and sell Commonwealth bonds to cover it? If you accept the fact that we could not sell Commonwealth bonds to cover it and you do not want another $ 1,000m deficit, the plain fact of that situation is that in this economic climate, the recommendations of the Mathews Committee had to be put aside. 
We did what we could though with a quite dramatic reform of the income tax system. We have effectively indexed the income tax scale between $5,000 and $10,000. Under the payasyou earn income tax scales of this present Government and the previous Government those in the $5,000 group paid a marginal rate of tax of 32c in the dollar; at $6,000 it was 38c; at $7,000, 44c; at $8,000, 48c; and at $10,000, 52c. We have replaced those rates with an across the board application of only 35c in the dollar. So anyone earning between $5,000 and $10,000 who is complaining that if he works overtime the application of the higher rate of tax would reduce his extra earnings to nothing will find that the 35c in the dollar tax rate applies right through the scale from $5,000 to $10,000. So while we have not completely fully indexed the tax system, we have indexed it where it mattersin the $5,000 to $10,000 group. By setting up this sort of tax system we give ourselves the opportunity of being able to index the taxation system completely when we feel the time is appropriate. At least with this new reformed tax system that becomes possible. I think that that is a major social reform. I say that it is the major social reform of this Budget and it is one of the major social reforms of this Government. Certainly, as the Minister says, it is one of the major social reforms of the last 2 decades. 
I believe it is a significant thing that any person who is getting a wage increase- perhaps he is receiving $6,000 a year and is moving up to $6,500 a year- need not fear paying any higher rate of tax. They will pay more tax on the basis that they earn more income, but they will not pay a higher rate of tax. They will still pay only 35c in the dollar. That same system works all the way through the tax scales. It works out that a taxpayer who has a dependant spouse and 2 children and who earns about $160 a week saves about $7 a week or about $350 a year. This is a much more generous system than we had before. The mortgage deductions remain. 
I shall discontinue my remarks on tax and refer again to pensions. In November the single rate of pension will rise by $2.75 and the married rate will rise by $4.50. 
Yes. In those days of the McMahon Government, the Liberals put the pension up by 50c. 
We are providing for an increase of $2.75 in the single rate and $4.50 in the married rate. We have seen increases of this magnitude often over the 2 years of office of the present Government. In fact, pensions have just about doubled in 2 1/2 years of Labor Government. Yet in the climate of cuts in Government expenditure we still find the Labor Party true to its promise to keep pensions at 25 per cent of average weekly earnings and we find pensions going up. While we have had to slow down the phasing out of the means test, the means test for people aged 69 years will be abolished from 1 July next year as the first step in the final abolition of the means test for people aged 65 years and over. So in all those areas we have kept our promises. 
The Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  and the Leader of the Liberal Party on Tuesday night last delivered their replies to the Budget. They were speeches of doom. Today the Leader of the Opposition poured cold water on the postal increases, the increased excise on cigarettes and beer, the increased excise on motor spirits and on potable spirits and the coal export levy. He denigrated them in his speech recorded at page 523 of  Hansard.  He said they are terrible things. Today the Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party said that the Opposition would keep these measures. The Leader of the Opposition's speech says one thing, and in fact the Opposition means another thing. 
Look at some of the things which the Leader of the Opposition says that he will do away with. He will do away with the ceiling on Public Service growth, and yet 2 months ago he was complaining because we were not handling pension cheques quickly enough. He does not need staff. He is going to do away with the Public Service ceiling. He is going to sell the Pipeline Authority. It does not matter whether people in the eastern States of Australia get cheap natural gas; that is not the point. He will sell the Authority perhaps to the Australian Gas Light Co. By talking about selling it he is implying that he has discussed it with some corporate concern that wants to buy it. Presumably it would be the AGL, which would charge the people of Sydney and Brisbane through the nose for gas. 
He wants to withdraw the funds from the Australian Industry Development Corporation so there will be no more buying back of the farm. He wants a reduction of new housing lending so that young people trying to get a house through the Australian Housing Corporation would find that under a Liberal Government they would not be able to do so. He wants to sell the pharmaceutical corporation that we are setting up to try to contain pharmaceutical prices. 
In fact, it is a return to laissez-faire economics. The Liberal Party does not really recognise who or what it has elected as its leader. I think it is just getting now a very nasty taste of the type of character it has elected. Listening to the Leader of the Opposition speak about the Budget is like a trip down the time tunnel. It is like listening to what was put up 25 years ago. In fact, he is advocating 19th century American laissez-faire economics, the economics of Ayn Rand and the like, the economics of the open economy, in which there is no protection for the individual who is not able to get out and fight and struggle. The Leader of the Opposition uses cliches such as 'enforced equality'. He says that he rejects enforced equality in the economy. That means, as someone said quite eloquently, that if you fall flat on your face he leaves you on your face because it is your right to fall on your face. He does not see that the Government has an obligation to try to help the poor and underprivileged. He would wreck the social welfare system of Australia 
He says that he rejects enforced equality in education. He says that privileges should remain. If he were in government there would be no government funding of poor schools in the western suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne to give the child of a poor family a go to get a decent education or to give him free university education. The Leader of the Opposition is against that. He says that he rejects enforced equality, as he calls it, in education. That is what the Aus.tralian people can expect from a Fraser government if ever Australia were in the unfortunate situation to experience that. 
 I believe that the Budget was a sensible proposition. It is a compromise between competing loyalties- our loyalties to the welfare of the people and our concern for the economy. I believe it is responsible, in sharp contrast to what the Leader of the Opposition offered, and I believe that it deserves the support of the House. I would be very surprised if the Liberal Party could see any cogent reasons why it should reject the Budget In fact, even on its public utterances I do not trunk it would be game enough to do that. It is shame-faced enough to do almost anything, but it should not knock over a Budget which has reduced the deficit to about $2,000m in line with what the debate on the economy in Australia was all about. I think it is a very reasonable attempt on the part of the Government to come up with the right solution for the economy at this point in Australia 's history. 

 Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

I ask the Prime Minister a question. The honourable gentleman will have noted that the leaders of the Opposition parties in their Budget speeches promised nothing by way of government handouts to the mining industry despite their violent criticisms of the Government's mining policy. I ask: Has the Prime Minister had any proposals for the dropping of the coal export levy? Also, will the Government hold firm to its policy objectives in the mining area and disregard any future calls by the Leader of the Opposition or the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia for the reintroduction of taxation benefits and subsidies to this very healthy area of the economy? 
-The speech that we have just heard from the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  sounded more like a Budget speech than a speech on customs tariff proposals. 
it was mostly an irrelevancy. I would like to deal primarily with the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Bill but I would like just to devote a couple of moments to what was said by the previous  speaker.  The honourable member said a lot about deficits and the money supply. It might be worth recounting to the honourable member that it was through the irresponsibility of the Liberal Party in allowing the Country Party to pressure it to leave the Australian dollar undervalued that a massive increase in the money supply took off in 1 97 1 -72. The honourable member well knows that that was the root cause of inflation in 1973-74. Perhaps there was some compounding of that situation by the deficit that the Government was forced to run, but who would say that the Government should not have covered the cost of Darwin or that it should not have tried to do something for the unemployment situation by the introduction of the Regional Employment Development scheme? That is where the deficit came up. 
The honourable member spoke about indirect raisings of finance to cover government spending. He well knows that the Government cannot go onto the Australian bond market and raise money. There is nothing wrong with government spending providing the money is properly financed. If we are to reduce public holdings of funds in return for money which we collect by a tax and which we push out by way of government expenditure, that is not an inflationary situation. The different characteristic of this situation is that we are not able to reduce the public's holdings because we cannot make Commonwealth bonds attractive enough for investment. To make them attractive enough for investment we would have to raise the Commonwealth bond rate by about  2Vi  per cent or 3 per cent, and this would drive interest rates across the whole private sector of the economy through the roof. At the moment treasury notes are offering 8.7 per cent interest. The Government purposely followed that policy to keep money moving towards the private sector and away from the government sector. The honourable gentleman knows that. If we could finance this deficit we would not have to worry about indirect taxes or reducing government spending; we could finance it correctly and properly. But that situation cannot come about today. There is no way in which the Government could raise that money and reduce the public's holdings. The deficit is financed from the liquid and government securities- from the non-lendable sector of the liquid assets of the trading banks, the savings banks and the insurance companies. The honourable gentleman knows that and it does not need to be recounted. 
His other dishonesty concerned income tax raising. In the second half of last year the Government returned $700m by way of reductions in income tax. This year it will return $205m directly by way of reductions in income tax. On top of that is Medibank. Because the Opposition in the Senate would not pass the Supply Bill the Government had to finance Medibank out of income tax. It has meant about $5 a week that the average man does not now have to find. Specifically, it is not income tax but it is money which he does not have to find. So there is another $5 a week which is virtually an income tax reduction for him. 
The honourable member talked about tax indexation. There are a lot of advocates of tax indexation throughout the Parliament. I have made a speech here in support of it. Why did the honourable gentleman not happen to mention the booklet which accompanied the Budget which shows that the Government has indexed income tax at 35c in the $1 for incomes between $5,000 and $10,000? According to the marginal rates for last year, income tax on $5,000 was at the rate of 32c, on $6,000 at the rate of 38c, on $7,000 at 44c, on $8,000 at 48c and on $10,000 at 52c. The Government has indexed the lot at 35c in the $1. What the Opposition would like to do with indexation across the board is to index the top end and give those people a break. The Government is indexing the section in which we find the majority of Australians in the work force. As usual, the Opposition is looking for a quiet fiddle. 
Why did the honourable gentleman not say in respect of the management of the money supply in 1971-72 that the previous Government failed and that in the last 3 years the seeds of inflation were sown because- of the dishonesty of the Country Party and because the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  pressured Treasurer Snedden and Prime Minister McMahon into leaving the Australian currency undervalued? That was the start of the trouble with inflation in Australia. 
I would like to deal specifically with the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Bill. Since this Government took office there have been dramatic increases particularly in the price of coking coal. The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  outlined a number of these increases and I will recount them. At the Blackwater mine in Queensland the price was $12.62 a ton when we took office and it is now $48 a ton. At Goonyella it was $ 13.44 and is now $38.50. At Peak Downs it was $12.77 a ton and it is now $48.50. The price of high quality hard coking coal rose by 200 percent. 
-It would not have been more. As the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  mentioned the right honourable gentleman went to Japan to try to sink the Minister's efforts, slinking over there without any authority and acting in his usual un-Australian manner. High quality coking coal has risen in price by 200 per cent since we took office and other coal by about 150 per cent. These increases occurred specifically because the previous administration did absolutely nothing to enter into collusive tendering with the Japanese- our major buyer of coal- and the export prices from the Australian coalmines were at bargain basement level. The Japanese were picking off our producers one after the other. There was absolutely no cohesion or continuity in Australia's approach. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy, through the auspices of the Australian Government, brought about a massive increase in price. The increase was not just to cover the higher costs associated with coal production but also to close the gap between the prices that we were getting and the prices that other countries were getting. The companies and the Opposition believe that this windfall which came to the companies by virtue of the Government's actions, remains with the companies. If the Government of Australia is successful in achieving a windfall profit for the companies and if the produce of the companies belongs to aU Australians, is it not reasonable that some of the largesse should be spread around? The gross profits in respect of black coal to the end of the last financial year amounted to $166m and the gross profits for the industry amounted to $544m. Honourable members should comprehend that figure. That is the most successful and profitable area of Australian commerce. Yet the Opposition argues that the industry is unable to sustain a levy of $6 a tonne in respect of coking coal and $2 a tonne in respect of steaming coal. That is just a lot of hogwash. 
In these Bills we seek to raise a total levy of about $ 120m on a gross profit for the industry of $544m. After the application of company tax at 42.5c in the $1 the companies are asked to provide a net additional amount of $69m. So it is a net additional amount of only $69m out of a gross profit of $544m. Who could argue that there was injustice in that? To its credit, I suppose, the Australian Coal Association, on behalf of its members, has objected on a number of specific grounds, but none of them really stands up. It said that the levy should not discriminate. It does discriminate because companies in some areas are in a more fortunate position. In some of the easily won areas where there is open-cut mining and where the coal grades are very high, the profitability is much higher and the company is therefore able to sustain a higher rate of tax. In that respect the levy takes profitability into account. The Australian Coal Association also said that it believed that the levy would stop development. The tax is only a very minor portion of the profits coming to the industry and the levels of profitability at which the companies are now operating would have been unthinkable at the time when this Government came to office. Those levels have been achieved specifically because of the policies of the Government. In that respect I cannot see any cogent argument which would lead anyone to the conclusion that the levy of $2 a tonne on steaming coal and $6 a tonne on coking coal would impede any future development in the coal industry in Australia 
The Government admits that steaming coal is not as lucrative as coking coal. In the past couple of years the major price increases have been in coking coals. But at the same time there is discrimination in the weight of the tax- $2 a tonne on steaming coal as against $6 a tonne on coking coal. If one looks at the position of steaming coal and if one considers the adjustment in company tax one finds that the $2 represents about $ 1 . 1 5 a tonne in all. So I think that the companies producing steaming coal have been treated fairly. Some companies are tied up in fixed contracts, and that is an anomaly which is recognised. In the event that companies engaged in fixed contracts find that the levy of $1.15 a tonne is too much of a burden, they can make out a case to the Minister for Minerals and Energy who will refer the matter to the Treasurer. 
The matter can be looked at, if hardship can be substantiated. In many cases in which it is suggested that hardship is present it is not. But if hardship can be substantiated, I think the Government would look favourably upon making some sort of adjustment to the obligation to pay that duty. 
The other areas in which perhaps there may be some need for action because an anomaly arises is in relation to the high content coals, the 85 per cent coals, which are found in some parts of the country where the grades are that high but which are still classified as steaming coal and not as high grade coking coal. Perhaps in that case the levy can be adjusted so that the duty of $2 a tonne instead of the duty of $6 a tonne applies. I think the Government is prepared to do something about the weight with which the duty applies to companies and, as much as it is possible, to consider the lot of each company. But the point still remains that the profitability levels in respect of these companies is enormous. 
My colleague the honourable member for Hawker raised a very telling point in respect of the royalty payments in Queensland, the State where there has been a massive increase in coal exports and where, particularly in respect of coking coal, the heights reached by prices have been astronomical. The honourable member pointed to the almost unbelievable fact that royalty payments in Queensland in 1974 from the extractive industries was only $4m. The total value of minerals sold in that year in Queensland was $5 1 5m. Those are the figures. As the honourable member for Hawker points out to me now, they were tabled by the Queensland Minister responsible for mining matters. They are not figures from the Federal Government; they are figures provided by the Queensland Government. Royalties totalling only $4m were paid on total mineral earnings of $5 15m. 
The argument in respect of such low royalties is that the railways are subsidised by the freights which are paid to the Queensland Government for the carriage of the minerals. But half of those railways would not need to exist if the mines concerned were not operating there. That claim cannot be used as a cogent argument. It does not matter how we look at those royalties. The fact is that those royalties represent an infinitesimal, proportion of profits from the extractive industries in this country. I remind honourable members of the report which was compiled only 18 months ago by  Mr Fitzgerald,  and the illustration which he gave in relation to the extractive industries. The net return received by the Australian Government from the extractive industries in the 10 years to the time when the collation of that report was concluded was nil. In fact, the Australian Government paid to those industries $25m to be here. That was the net yield of the rorts and tax subsidies which the previous Government allowed those industries. 
It is interesting to note in this respect, as I raised by way of question with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  today, that not once in the Budget speeches delivered by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or by the Leader of the National Country Party did those gentlemen utter any reference to the reintroduction of all the lurks and perks that they established under section 77 in relation to C and D subsidies, income tax concessions under section 78 or in fact direct subsidies. There was not one mention of those. What was not mentioned also was the fact that the Opposition proposed to accept the legislation in relation to imposing levy charges on export coal. They did not say that the Opposition would remove these charges in the event that it became the Government. That was not said in those speeches. But the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  had to slink in here 3 days later with a document to say that the Leader of the Opposition had not made it clear that the Opposition would accept the legislation imposing the levy on export coal and all that that meant with respect to the revenue. So, the Opposition at no stage has ever indicated in the course of the debate on the current Budget that it is going to give the mining industry any go at all. 
Let people in that industry start to think where the current prices have come from. They have come from the Minister for Minerals and Energy. That is the case in the iron ore area. Who achieved the revaluation compensation for the iron ore miners of 18 per cent and later the additional 4 per cent for those miners? It was the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Who restored the profitability of the Western Australian iron ore miners? Who achieved an increase from Japan in respect of coal exports? Who forced the uranium companies to negotiate contracts at a reasonable price? It was the same Minister. 
This is the whole picture in relation to the dealings of this Government with the extractive industries. We have gone out of our way to indicate that when the Government secures higher prices and profitability for the extractive industries the sum of the rake-off comes to the Australian people. Under the export control power, these measures were achieved. By this legislation, some of the money paid in levies will be returned to the Australian people, where it belongs. The rip-offs will not be the property of American companies such as the Utah organisation or the Thiess Peabody Mitsui group. They belong to the Australian people. Such windfalls are not to be regarded as largesse for the multinationals. Some of it must come back to the Australian people. That is what these indirect taxes are achieving. These taxes are not taxes imposed on aU Australians, as the honourable member for Berowra tried to suggest. These taxes are imposed on specific corporations operating in an ultra-profitable area. That is why these taxes are imposed. 
Let me deal with this matter in another sense. As my speech is nearing its end, let me depart for a moment from this question of the coal export levy and pick up another point raised by the honourable member for Berowra who referred to what he called the shocking imposition of excise on beer and potable spirits. I would remind the honourable gentleman that the last time that the duty on beer was changed - 
In 1 965, by your Government - 
You will be like Chipp soon, with your foot in your mouth. Just keep it cool, son. I will just outline these facts to you. In the Sydney metropolitan area, the duty on a 10 oz. glass of beer as a percentage of the price of that glass of beer was 50 per cent. On a bottle of beer costing 36c, the duty was 53 per cent. That was the duty that the Government of which the right honourable member for Richmond was a member put on beer in 1965. By comparison, the duty at present as a percentage of the price of a 10 oz. glass of beer is 37 per cent. On a bottle costing 67c, the duty is 43 per cent. I compare those respective duties of 37 per cent and 43 per cent at present with the duties of 50 per cent and 53 per cent respectively. That washes up that argument. A pretty good try, but honourable members opposite are exposed once again for their phoneyness. They are not prepared to say that they will defeat these Bills or that when in government they would repeal them. 
Honourable members opposite have not been prepared to say in their Budget speeches which are covered in the media what promises they would make to the extractive industries. Instead, they come in when we are debating these ancillary Bills and make a big noise about what they will do. I do not think anybody takes any notice of them any more; nor should they. If honourable members opposite think that big Mai will get them into office without earning his freight or without any of them earning their freight, I think they should think again. They will be in the 
Opposition benches for a lot longer if this is the standard of their argument. Let the Australian people be the judges. The judgment will be the same as it was in 1974. Opposition members will find that they have been judged and found wanting once again. 
I have quite a deal of respect normally for the socioeconomic theories and beliefs of my friend, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who has just spoken in the debate. But I think I could be excused for saying that I was not quite sure whether he was supporting or opposing the Bill. Perhaps it might be worth mentioning that it is more likely for the real indications of the Opposition's attitude in this debate to come from the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  than from my friend who holds a marginal seat in this Parliament. When matters of trade have ever affected the Opposition Parties, when in government, the National Country Party has had its foot firmly on the overseas trade portfolio. 
Why does not the honourable member sit down and grow up instead of calling quorums. 
-I want to dwell on a couple of points raised by the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  and the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  earlier in the debate. It is notable that the Opposition is using the debate on the Treasury estimates to qualify its position on the latest Commonwealth Budget, It was clear to everybody who is a student of Australian politics or who closely watches what happens in this place that the day after the Budget was presented the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said clearly that there would be no attempt by the Opposition to stymie the Budget's passage through the Senate. Now we find equivocation by the Leader of the Opposition because of pressure on him from the National Country Party of Australia and segments of his own Party. He is attempting to qualify that statement. 
The spokesmen of the Liberal Party in this chamber, particularly in this debate, have called the Budget 'a hoax' and are trying to dismiss it as some kind of a confidence trick perpetuated by the Government. I make this point: A lot has been said about deficits, and I think probably too much. But the point is that the Government accepted the view that there was a need to restrain the normal expenditure commitments that the Government would incur in this financial year. It had to restrain them because it realised clearly that it could not resort to the imposition of higher taxation or indeed savage increases in indirect taxes to cover the shortfall between receipts and expenditure. Therefore, it had a simple choice facing it: It could cover the deficit which would normally come from its expenditure with loans raised from the non-bank public, which has the effect of course of driving up interest rates; or alternatively it had the option of reducing the size of its own expenditure, which it has done. 
The Opposition made the point clearly that in the event of the Budget having a deficit of around $2,500m it would approve of it. That was the effect of the utterances from the Opposition in the month before the Budget was formulated, believing that the Australian Labor Party would try to perpetrate a Budget with a deficit of $4000m to $5000m. Inconveniently for the Opposition, the Government decided to reduce the deficit to something of the order that the Opposition mentioned. No case can be made in terms of fiscal responsibility for the Senate to even consider rejecting the Budget on the basis that it is irresponsible. The references to the tax system by the Opposition are such that it is as though members of the Opposition expected that along with cuts in expenditure this year we should also offer massive cuts in taxation. Obviously this is not the year when big cuts in taxation can be given; in fact it is a year when higher taxes could have been considered as an offset to expenditure. 
The Government has decided to pick up the Medibank cheque from taxation revenue because the levy to fund Medibank was not applied. An amount of $205m was handed back directly in income tax cuts and there was a reallocation within the income tax scales so that the married man with a wife and children got a go at the expense of married people without children and with both partners in occupations. In the first half of this calendar year there was a reduction in tax of $700m. This was a give-away to the public. The reduction for 12 months was given back in the 6 months from January to 30 June this year. There has been a reduction in income tax of $205m in this Budget and provision has been made for the funding of Medibank. This means that in times of enormous expenditure there is quite a significant contraction in the amount of money which one would normally have expected to be raised by way of income taxation in this Budget. In this situation the Government has a simple choice. It can finance its deficit from the non-bank public, in which case there is no inflationary effect. This is the point that needs to be recognised. If the Government reduces the public's holdings of money by the same amount it spends in excess of its own income there is a nil inflationary effect. 
There is nothing wrong with a government deficit providing it is financed correctly. By correctly, I mean financed from moneys taken from the non-bank public. That drives up interest rates. Because of our concern for the private sector we have kept Treasury note yields at around 8.7 per cent this year. We have decided that we cannot go on to the bond market to raise a lot of money. In July we raised $680m- 45 per cent of that came from the public- to redeem loans which had been raised at an earlier time. If one tries to raise a significant amount of money in excess of that, one drives up interest rates. That was an option the Government sensibly, I think, decided not to take. Therefore it is faced with a situation in which the deficit would be financed by drawing from the liquid assets and government securities ratios of the banking system, the non-lendable money which is in the net an addition to the money supply. That is the situation with the deficit. We have kept it to about $2,50Om to $2,70Om 
What would you know, you clown? You would not know what day it was. You are just a dummy that has been given a job. We have kept the deficit within manageable limits. Not only that, there also have been significant adjustments in the imposition of income tax under the Budget scales. The Government resorted to some indirect taxation to cover what shortfalls it could see. Nevertheless the point needs to be made that this year there will probably be a need to redeem about another $ 1 ,000m in loans. That has to be funded by public subscription. If one seeks more than that amount to cover the Government's deficit one drives interest rates to an intolerable level. Any significant movement in the price of government securities means that interest rates in the public area would probably rise by 2 per cent or 3 per cent which would be too harsh an imposition on all people in Australia. 
Nevertheless, in times of inflation all investors are entitled to a reasonable return on their money. I think at the moment that the investor perhaps is not doing as well as he expects to do in the sense that interest rates are reasonably low considering the prevailing rate of inflation. The point needs to be made in the Senate that in terms of responsibility and of trying to redistribute the impost of the tax burden the Government has done a remarkable job, I think, in this economic predicament in which Australia finds itself. No amount of chin wagging or trying to dismiss the Budget now as a hoax or as a con can relieve the Opposition of its responsibilities to face the fact that the Budget is responsible. It is not a matter of whether the Budget pleases the Senate; the point is that the Senate has no right at all to force any elected government to the polls, not because it does not have a majority in this Chamber, not because it lacks a majority on the floor of the House of Representatives, not because it does not have the support of the people at an election but because it does not have the money to govern. 
The point needs to be made to the Opposition fairly clearly that in the event that it stops Supply it will stop. There will not be any easy recourse like there was before the last election when the Prime Minister got permission for a double dissolution in the dinner adjournment and the Supply Bill was passed at 8 o'clock. This time the Supply Bill will not be passed and the Opposition will carry the odium for the stopping of Commonwealth salaries, the stopping of the pension cheques and we will sit it out and we will see. So if the Opposition thinks it will be a pushover with its thuggery and its demagoguery it can think again. Blatant and open opportunism ought not to prevail in the Australian economy. Let the Opposition, if it likes, pay its freight to the Treasury benches. But it is a mindless lot of hacks with a new leader who is getting the run-through from the establishment because of the wealth redistribution this Government has perpetrated on it. The Opposition can take its chances if it will but I do not think it Will have what it takes to stop the Supply Bill. We dare the members of the Opposition to do it. If they do it we Will take them on. If the Opposition believes that the Senate's role is to stop Supply Bills that course of action will be available to another Opposition in the Senate at another time. The constitutional processes which the Queensland Premier aborted have been aborted here as well. The breaking of those conventions will react as much against the Opposition in times to come as it has on us in the past. 
I make the point that the Budget is responsible. The criticisms of the tax measures by Opposition speakers are without foundation and have been outlined today only to try to let the Opposition out of a situation in which its leader said that there would be no stopping of the passage of the Budget in the Senate. He now wants to go back on what he said and the undertaking he gave. I do not think the Press or the public will let the Opposition squirm out of it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am at a loss to understand why this matter should be raised today under General Business, particularly by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  The National Country Party seems to have displayed very little interest at all in the matter. Maybe the honourable member has raised this matter because he believes that in government he would wear the minerals and energy crown. I think that bigger dogs than he have their eyes on that bone. I cannot see that he has advanced his cause at aU. It is true that the National Country Party generally regards the minerals industry as a milch-cow to provide it with election funds. The Party's primary interest has been in finding sources of election funds. Its main interest is no longer in the primary industry area of Australian life, it is in the minerals area. The members of the National Country Party are the paid lackeys of the mining companies of Australia. I do not think that it is paid principally by the Australian mining companies, either; I think the money is coming from the foreign mining companies. 
The constant assertion is made that Australia 's mineral policy is in chaos. But our exports are at record levels, both in quantity and in value, in all the categories that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  mentioned earlier- in iron ore, in bauxite, in lead and in the mineral sands, zircon and rutile. There are enormous exports of these minerals at present, and there is no diminution of the industry in those areas. The Liberal Party and the National Country Party rave about minerals policy. When they were in government there was no policy. What we, as a government, inherited was chaos and pork-barrelling on a grand scale. While the Liberal Party and the National Country Party were in government there was absolutely no coherence in the administration of the minerals policy. I should like to recount what the prestigious journal, the Australian Financial Review, said about the Liberal Party's administration of minerals and energy in its editorial on Monday of this week. It said: 
Australia, on the other hand, has never had an energy policy. 
Until the arrival of  Mr Connor  as a minister we had a succession of ministerial appointments who neither asserted nor sought to assert any strong political guidance over the one area of energy policy where the Government did have a direct in vollvement nuclear energy. 
Uranium policy was left to the Department of National Development which regarded it as purely another mining activity and nuclear policy as such was framed and pursued by the scientists of the Atomic Energy Commission. 
Wider questions of energy policy were not considered to be anybody's responsibility. 

 Mr Connor has his faults but he at least has turned Government attention to future energy policy. 
That might be a back-handed compliment, but it makes the point very clearly. The  Australian Financial Review  in its editorial stated that the Liberal Party never had an energy policy and that it never had any administration over the energy industry. 
The former Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer, interjects. He is well aware that not so many years ago he presided over the same sham to which I have referred. One hears constant babble about what a Liberal National Country Party government would do for the minerals industry of Australia. Did we hear in the speech of the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  recently any reference to the mining industry? Did we hear that a Liberal National Country Party government would take off the coal export tax? Did the honourable member for Kennedy today say in criticism of the Government that the National Country Party in government would remove the coal export tax? Of course not. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the time for the discussion of notices, general business, be extended until 12.4S p.m. 
There was not one reference to the removal of this subsidy. Members of the Opposition pour all their vitriol and hate upon it. Yet there was not one undertaking that it would be removed. All the subsidies which the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia has talked about over the last 18 months and attacked the Government for removing did not receive one reference in his speech on the Budget. He did not undertake to restore the section 77 and 78 concessions or the direct search subsidies that were removed by this Government. There was not one reference. Yet the National Country Party spokesman came in here today and tried to make a case and argue a case about the removal of these concessions and the imposition of the coal tax levy Bill. There was not one specific promise from the Opposition about any of them. Of course it all boils down to the fact that it is a lot of hooha and there is no basis to its criticism whatsoever. 
If members of the Opposition want to refer to coal let them speak to the coal companies of Australia. Their profits this year collectively from coal will be $544m. Since we came to office the Queensland Coal Mining Co. Ltd has received from the Blackwater mine in Queensland an increase in its coal prices from $12.62 a tonne to the present $48 a tonne. The price of coal from the Peak Downs mine has risen from $12.77 a tonne for coking coal to the present $48.50 a tonne. I could give examples right across the board and they show the same pattern. The increases were achieved singularly by the Minister for Minerals and Energy under the policy of this Government by negotiating with the Government of Japan. Yet the National Country Party seeks to give credence to the lie that the coal export tax levy will be an addition to the amount paid by the Japanese steel producers to Australia, that in fact that coal tax will be passed on. The Minister has said specifically on a number of occasions in the House that it will not be passed on. He has given a clear undertaking to the Japanese Government and to Nippon Steel, which acts as the negotiator for the Japanese steel companies in Japan, that the coal tax levy will not be passed on, that it has to be borne by the Australian coal producers. With that massive windfall gain which the Government has secured for them, why should they not pay some of it back? After the deduction of company tax it works out that they will pay $69m in the new coal tax out of $544m profit for the year. 
Yes. That is supposed to be an onerous tax. The Opposition says that we are killing off incentive in the industry. All the time members of the Opposition come in here as lackeys for foreign interests. Australian ownership of the coal industry in Queensland is a miserable 15 per cent. Yet members of the Opposition have the hide to come in here and to back that foreign interest and to keep talking about it. I have suggested in this House- probably unfairly- that the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  is on a retainer from Woodside-Burmah That is probably not right but the line of distinction is very fine. He could well be, listening to his utterances. He and  Sir Charles  Court are happy to be lackeys for the interests of the off-shore producers in Western Australia, Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd and any of the others. When we came to office the iron ore producers in Australia were almost to the point where they could not operate. Who got the revaluation compensation for them when they had their contracts written exclusively in American dollars? The Minister for Minerals and Energy. 
They came to Canberra privately cap in hand and said: 'Oh thank you  Mr Minister,  thank you, thank you'. When they go back to Western 
Australia they are inside angels and outside devils. They are beating a drum with Court there and are followed around by people like the honourable member for Stirling. But when one gets down to the nitty-gritty, their profitability was established and maintained by this Government. The new contracts were negotiated by this Government and the latest price for iron ore was approved by this Government. The Minister sent the companies back twice to get a reasonable deal for themselves and told them there would be more in it for them if they went back. When they looked at the new economics of Japanese steel production they could see that the Japanese could afford to pay them more and it would be a fairer price if they got more for their ore. The honourable member for Stirling knows that that is a fact. The Opposition referred to uranium. For 14 years before this Government was elected a total embargo on the export of uranium was imposed by the Liberal-Country Party Government in the 14 years to 1972. 
That is so. Three weeks before the new Parliament was elected in 1972 the former Minister for National Development in the Liberal-Country Party Government,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, let contracts to Japan to suit the companies that were obviously tipping into Liberal Party funds for that election. That is the murky depth at which uranium policy was administered by the Liberal-Country Party Government. There was no export. That was the policY. Now the Opposition berates us because uranium is not being ripped out of the ground and sold at bargain basement prices. An agreement has been signed between the Australian Government and the Northern Territory producers to produce uranium and to refine it in a process which will be operated by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. It so happens that there has been an inquiry into the national parks in the Northern Territory and another inquiry into the environmental effects of uranium. Not until those inquiries are completed will the Government be free to approve exports from any new mines in the Northern Territory. But agreements have been made and contracts will be honoured. Of course in the future those mines and the production plants will be operating at peak activity. But all this cannot happen within a year and well the honourable gentlemen on the other side of the House realise it. 
It is good to recount the figures which the Minister gave. When we came to office uranium was at SUS6.50 a lb on the world market because there was no marketing. It was a buyers' market, not a sellers' market. The whole world knew it. Of course now it is at SUS20 a lb-  3 'A  times as much. It was not worth our while to wait 2 years for this sort of a windfall gain-  3V4  times as much! If the Minister had his way and were able to effect the pokey immediately we would be enriching the uranium, which would multiply its value by a factor of five. This Government has made every attempt to maximise the returns to Australia and to Australian producers in all of the categories at which honourable members like to look. We again heard criticism from the honourable member for Kennedy about oil exploration with all of the bogus figures about production. I have from the Bureau of Mineral Resources and departmental records the official seismic and drilling statistics. I ask the honourable gentleman, if he is honest about the situation, to approve the inclusion of this table of figures in  Hansard. 
-In the absence of a debate earlier today on the motion of condolence on the death of  Mr J.  T. Lang I take this opportunity to pay an extemporaneous tribute to his memory. I inform the House at the outset that I knew him very well. I had the pleasure of his company for about the last 12 years of his life and for six of those years I saw him for about 2 hours a week. At that time I worked in the city of Sydney and I saw him on Mondays and Thursdays each week. In the last 6 years, since I have been in this Parliament, I saw him on a regular basis. I owe him a debt of gratitude for the very great source of encouragement he was to me personally. At all times he assisted and encouraged me to further a career in politics. I was attracted to  Mr Lang  from the time I was first interested in politics because of the strength of his convictions. One thing I could say about  Mr Lang  was that he lived in a world of black and white. There were no greys in his life. 
He was a very positive character. He gave me a greater sense of history- a different perspective of Australia. He was as old at the time of federation as I was when I entered this Parliament. He lived and understood federal and State politics throughout all that period of his life and he was able to give personality sketches of people like Deakin or Watson, or Bruce or Hughes or Fisher, and was able to describe them and the settings in which he found them He lived for as long as the Labor Party is old. He started his association with the Labor movement with people like the Leigh House socialists and the McNamaras of McNamara's Bookshop in Sydney. He married one of McNamara's daughters and Henry Lawson married the other. These people were the ideological spice of the political Labor movement of the 1890s and he was part of it from its inception until his death. There was no one else in Australian political life in 1975 who lived in and experienced that period. He could distinguish all the subtleties and felt all the pulses of the Labor movement. 
In 1971 I had the privilege to move successfully for his readmission to the Labor Party at the Australian Labor Party Congress in Sydney and I was ably supported by the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  on that occasion and many other honourable members in this House. I was thinking today at his funeral in Sydney how improper it would have been for us in the Labor Party to mourn his passing had we not forgiven him and invited him back into the Labor Party. We would have been there mourning his passing and yet would not have been able to say that we thought him fit to be one of us again.  His  readmission to the Labor Party was a source of great joy to him and he felt that a lot of the past hatreds and bigotry had been forgotten and forgiven. The prodigal son had returned. It was a source of great comfort to him and I think all members of the Labor Party in New South Wales are to be congratulated for what they did on that occasion. 
He never deviated from Labor philosophy.  His  early life was characterised by great poverty and he spent his life fighting against privilege and for the working class. It can be said of him that he was a man of the people because never in his most intimate conversations did he drop the compassion that he held for the working class. He was famous for some quotations which illustrated his view of the working peoplecelebrated comments like: 'Not a penny to the British bondholders while there is an empty belly in Balmain'. It was that style of oratory which typified his concern for people. He would say: 'My fight is a fight against poverty', and it was a fight against poverty and he kept fighting until he died. It is interesting to note the report which was tabled in Parliament a couple of weeks ago and which illustrated that some parts of Australia in 1975 are still suffering from great poverty. 
His great strength was his stamina and his tenacity. He was always confidently defiant, and in conversation when he wanted to make a point he would look at you with a stern face with his eyes transfixed so as to burn his view into you. He was ever confident in his own philosophy and never deviated from it. The tirades of hate and abuse he suffered never destroyed his personality. I do not think that any politician in Australia suffered the hate that Lang suffered, particularly in the 1920s and 1930s. If you read the  Sydney Morning Herald  of that era you would be astonished at the type of journalism in that paper particularly in the 1930s. There were enormous one-page cartoons depicting God in the clouds in Heaven and the devil in Hell. There would be a signpost saying: 'With Bavin to prosperity and with Lang to communism and Hell'. This was the class of journalism of those days. 
He never attacked anyone who had not attacked him. A lot of people said he made personal attacks but the personal attacks upon him were quite vitriolic and I think mostly he would have responded when he was attacked. However, the media hated him and he hated them. He taxed newspapers. He imposed a tax of a half penny on each newspaper in the 1930s. He put a tax on mortgage holders when there was poverty during the depths of the depression in New South Wales. He was not afraid to tackle the establishment. Somebody said to him later in his life: 'You have outlived your enemies', and he said: 'The things against which I fought are still with us'. And so they are. Today there are the same charges of creeping socialism. There is the hollow opportunism of the present Opposition trying to use the Senate as an instrument with which to strike down a Government, in the same way as Lang's opponents of those days used Governor Game through the British Colonial Office to strike down his elected government. He accepted it because he said he did not want to see the Commonwealth army fighting the New South Wales police in Macquarie Street trying to protect him and his government. He know that that was what it would lead to and he had to give in. Finally he was driven from office. 
But his view of life never changed. He once said to me: 'The articulate of the working class have a God-given duty to care for their own people, to serve them. If God has given you the capacity to handle and grapple with politics and to be articulate' he said 'you have a duty to serve your own class'. I believe that and it was his belief. He served them until the time he died. I enjoyed many hours of his company and his good nature. He had an extremely good nature and his kindliness was very obvious in everything he did. He was a man of great humour. He would often tell stories and recall situations. He had a typically Australian sense of humour. His humour was very entertaining and delightful. He was a delightful character. 
I also enjoyed his culture. During conversation he would use quotations from Demosthenes or Aristotle, or the Gospel of St Paul. They would just drip from his tongue He had an enormously developed sense of history. He was a very cultured and well read man. Anyone who wrote him off as a roughneck orator is very much mistaken; but an orator he was. He held people spellbound. Probably no man in this country has ever excited passions in the way that he did. I mourn his passing. I had a very great affection for him. On his death I treasure the very generous and very gracious friendship he gave me. He was a very great Australian and this nation is very much the poorer for his passing. I would like to take this opportunity to extend, on my own behalf and I think on behalf of the members of this House, the very greatest sympathy to his friends and his relatives and those who supported him. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Was the Snowy Mountains Project undertaken primarily as an irrigation scheme. 
Does the agreement with the States empower him to protect land holders against flooding in wet seasons in the event of the States wishing to depart from their normal pattern of usage of the Snowy water storage. 
Does the agreement empower him to protect the interests of irrigators, and to ensure the continuity of electricity supply to the Australian Capital Territory, in the event of the level of water storage in the Snowy falling to a critical level as a consequence of a succession of years of light snowfall or a long drought. 
What were the principles upon which, and the methods by which, the charges for electricity purchased from the Snowy Mountains Authority by New South Wales and Victoria were arrived at. 
Was the information provided by the States sufficient to ensure that the methods employed resulted in these charges being reasonably consistent with principles it was intended should be applied. 
If the information provided by the States concerned was sufficient or unsatisfactory, were one or both States at fault to the same degree. 
Does the agreement provide for variations in the charges; if so, in what circumstances. 
Did the Australian Government receive any requests from either New South Wales or Victoria to increase the electricity generating capacity of the Snowy Scheme after the original agreement on charges for electricity to the States had been agreed upon. 
If such a request or requests were received, did they originate from one or both States. 
If the generating capacity of the Scheme was increased at the request of either one or both States, were the charges for electricity to the State or States concerned increased to compensate the Australian Government for the additional expenditure incurred in meeting a State responsibility. 
After the Atomic Power Station at Jervis Bay was dropped in 1971 as a national economy measure, was any request received from the New South Wales Government to restore this project to meet the power generation needs of that State. 
What are the maximum demands which may be imposed at any given time by the Electricity Commissions of New South Wales and Victoria on the generation system of the Snowy Scheme. 
What is the total annual energy entitlement of these States from the Snowy Scheme. 
14) What proportion of the annual energy quota was taken by each State during the first 4 months of 1973-74, and what were the proportions of their annual energy entitlements used by each State in the corresponding period in 1972-73. 
What are the respective annual contributions made by New South Wales and Victoria to the Snowy water reserves by way of pumped storage. 
Is the pumped storage contribution by each State added to the annual energy entitlements of that State. 
17) Do the charges to the States for Snowy power cover the wear and tear on the Snowy plant and energy used or lost in the pumped storage operation. 
Does the agreement with the States make adequate provision for the cost of wear and tear on the Snowy plant, and for the water used and energy lost in maintaining the spinning reserve capacity required by the States, or either one of them, to ensure that the Snowy plant is instantly available to accept additional load, in the event of the failure of generating plant of either State. 
19) Will he ascertain the principles upon which, and the method by which, the charges by the Electricity Commission of New South Wales for electricity transmitted to the Australian Capital Territory were arrived at 
If so, how do these charges compare with those made by the N.S.W. Commission to its other bulk customers. 
Will he ascertain if the proportions of the total costs of the Electricity Commission of N.S.W., attributable to generation and transmission, respectively, in arriving at the charges for electricity to the A.C.T., were substantially the same as the corresponding proportion of costs of that Commission used in arriving at the charges made by the Snowy Mountains Authority for electricity purchased by the Commission. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the quarterly charges for a typical residential user of electricity in Albury. 
However do these charges compare with those to a customer with identical quarterly consumption in Wodonga. 
What are the quarterly charges to a rural customer adjacent to the Albury Municipal area and those to a customer with identical consumption in the area adjacent to Wodonga. 
Apart from the charges for electricity used, is a rural customer in the areas adjacent to Albury or Wodonga obliged to pay any additional service charge; if so, what is this quarterly surcharge in each area. 
Are new rural customers in the areas adjacent to Albury or Wodonga required to make a capital contribution towards the cost of extending electricity supply to their properties; if so, what is the amount of, or the basis used to arrive at the amount of, such capital contribution in each area. 
-This is another attempt by the Opposition to make cowardly and contemptible insinuations against the 
Government as it did during the loans affair debate. It called for a royal commission. The Government requested this royal commission, which the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  has described as a whitewash. He proposed that the Government investigate the royal commission. How bereft of common sense is this man and how bereft is the Opposition for supporting him? He said that the Government has acted too hastily. From the moment that Mobil Oil Australia Ltd called into question the ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd deal during the proceedings of the royal commission on the next sitting day of the commission  Mr Liddell,  the Government's counsel, requested a special report on the matter. 
Throughout the administration of the indigenous crude oil policy, in the days of the former Government and in the days of this Government from 1972, the Government and the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  have upheld consistently the basic thrust of the policy. To use the Minister's own words, so long as crude oil is sold within Australia at the proper price, it benefits all Australians. That is the basis of the policy and it has been adhered to rigorously. The Leader of the National Country Party has today tabled argument placed before the royal commission, not evidence. The royal commission's findings exonerate the Government and the Minister. Now the Opposition wants to go beyond that and has called for a special inquiry into the royal commission itself. Let us look at  Mr Souter  's evidence, which is not hearsay.  Mr Liddell  questioned  Mr Souter  and pointed out that an option was entered into between ACTU-Solo, IOC and Allied Petrochemicals Pty Ltd on 1 6 May 1 975. 
It was not Solo then; it was ACTU-Solo. On 17 June- one month later-  Mr Souter  wrote to the Minister. At no time did the Minister see any second agreement. The operative document was the $100 option of 16 May.  Mr Liddell  questioned  Mr Souter  as follows: 
I suggest that in the course of that discussion you - 
Meaning  Mr Souter-  stated that the price payable for the crude was the Government approved price or words to that effect. 

 Mr Souter replied: 
What I stated was that there was discussion in relation to the prospect of purchase of APC crude, and the Minister's response was, and I agreed, that it would be at the Government approved price for the crude. 

 Mr Liddell asked: 
The Minister specifically raised the question and you say you agreed that would be the price? 

 Mr Souter said: 'Yes.' He said 'Yes' under oath. Then  Mr Liddell  asked: 
From what you told us on Tuesday you were well aware, were you not, at that stage that the Minister would not have approved any sale of this crude other than at the Government-approved price - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member for Chisholm will contain himself. 
He went on: 
Was that your belief? 

 Mr Souter answered under oath: 'The sale of the crude, yes. ' He was asked: 
That was your belief at the time of the discussion and you in the course of this discussion stated this was to be a sale at that price? 

 Mr Souter replied under oath: 'That is right.' What is the point of the Leader of the Country Party now tabling argument in this political discussion? These are the facts under oath from the royal commission. There is the documentation, the details of the agreement and the details of the option. Yet the Leader of the Country Party tries to suggest that the Government has whitewashed the whole issue. There has been no inconsistency in the administration of the indiginous crude oil policy in respect of the Australian Gas Light Company, IOC, APC, Caltex or ACTU-Solo. The only single difference was that ACTU-Solo deceived the Australian Government. Apart from that there has been no inconsistency. The Leader of the Country Party rises in this House regularly like a lackey for AGL, which he has been for  2Vi  years ever since the pipeline dispute started, and tries to put its case here suggesting that the Government was responsible for the increase in gas prices in Sydney. 
Let us recount the AGL deal. On 13 May 1974 AGL wrote to the Minister asking him to approve a contract for the sale of crude oil over and above the fixed price. The Minister replied 7 days later, on 20 May 1974. It took AGL 5 months to respond further. Yet the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has alleged that the Government was tardy. AGL responded on 11 December 1974, 5 months later.  Mr Connor  replied on 16 December 1974. The Leader of the Country Party tabled a letter in which the Minister said: 
However, I observe that the proposed price is in excess of that operating in respect of indigenous crude. 
It is not an approval. The Minister wrote again. AGL wrote on 23 December and asked for favourable consideration of this request. On 9 January the Minister wrote and said that he had nothing to add. I will read from his letter of 1 6 December. He said: 
I note that one of the agreements presupposes, among other things, that I do not object to the transaction. 
That was written on 16 December to  Mr Connellan  of AGL. The Minister said: 
I invite your attention to my letter of 20 May last, and particularly to my comments in the second paragraph thereof. 
This is a positive indication of the Minister's disapproval of the AGL-IOC arrangement. If the members of the Opposition had any sense they would realise that the crude oil policy has no legal backing. It is a gentlemen's agreement. To the credit of the oil producers of Bass Strait and elsewhere in Australia, they have honoured that agreement. The policy is administered on a very flimsy basis. The Minister does write in cautious terms to these people. The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd took the cue. It knew that it could not release an uplift of crude to AGL without a change in the Government's policy. Here is Connor writing to Connellan after Connellan waited 5 months to respond to him. He wrote: 
I refer to the second paragraph pointing out the authority does not exist for them to uplift the crude. 
What happened was that the AGL deal fell through. So the Opposition has no case for complaint. 
Let us have a look at the IOC-Caltex deal which is another matter mentioned by the Opposition. IOC was not able to pay for its crude originally. That was the basis of the AGL propositionthat AGL was to have paid it. There would have been no objection if IOC paid for it, but the company was not able to do so. The liquidator picked up the assets of IOC. One of the assets happened to be the call upon the indigenous policy for an uplifting of crude. The liquidator wrote to the Minister, and the Minister put out a Press release which said: 
On 9 July,  Mr Evans  as liquidator had written to me stating that he desired to lift IOC's crude. 
He was prepared to pay the Government fixed price of approximately $2.10 at the well head and have the crude refined on a subcontract basis. 
I advised him that this was unexceptionable as far as the crude absorption scheme was concerned. 

 Mr Evans also proposed that: 
1 ) Caltex would refine the uplifted crude and market the refined produce on a joint basis with IOC. 
What is wrong with that? Where is the inconsistency in that? The liquidator is still paying the 
S2.10 for the crude. There has been no inconsistency in the administration of the crude oil policy in respect of AGL nor has there been any inconsistency in respect of the IOC-Caltex deal. The inconsistency was the deception perpetrated by ACTU-Solo. The Opposition should be ashamed for trying to suggest that the Government conned the royal commission, for trying to suggest that the royal commission whitewashed the Government's situation and for calling for an inquiry into the royal commission. 
-This is the second time within a month that we have been subjected to a similar motion from the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  I do not know whether he is trying to promote himself as a future Minister for Minerals and Energy in a government comprising the Liberal and Country parties, but I suggest- as I have suggested before- that bigger dogs than he have got their paws on the bone. I think it is an abuse of the Standing Orders that twice within a month the same type of motion is moved under General Business thereby denying other honourable members the right to move legitimate motions. We should not be subjected to motions dealing with the rubbish that this man speaks. It is an indictment of the Opposition to think that the honourable member for Kennedy is the spokesman, the front man in the House of Representatives on vital matters like the minerals and energy policies of Australia, a man who in his ministerial position in a previous government was the court jester of the Parliament. I am not being rude to the honourable gentleman, but that is an accurate description of his role in this place when he was Minister for the Army. It is shame on the Opposition that he even sits on the front bench, much less coming into this place regularly promoting the Opposition's policies on this topic. 
He drops phrases such as 'deliberate sabotage', suggesting that the Government policies on minerals and energy are deliberate sabotage. I do not think any sensible person in Australia would attempt to sustain an argument or suggest that we should give back to the States a greater role in the area of minerals and energy developmentthe rotten pocket-borough State governments of Australia. The State of Queensland exported coal to the value of $5 15m last year. That State 's miserable royalty was $4m. The best that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  could get out of the foreigners exporting the coal in Queensland was $4m out of $5 15m last year. Look at the giveaways by  Sir Charles  Court in Western Australia. Some of the State governments are corrupt when it comes to these policies and they have been shown to be corrupt. They are duchessed by these companies. 
Of course the major policy initiatives in respect of minerals and energy should reside in the national Parliament and nowhere else. The National Country Party regards minerals and energy companies as a milking horse for its own election funds. I notice today some of the bureaucrats of the Liberal-National Country Party machine are in the Speaker's Gallery. I would like to know from them where their funds are coming from. You can bet that a lot is coming from the minerals and energy companies because the Country Party makes a specialty of getting money from these people, and that has been the reason for the thrust of its policy initiatives in this place since 1972. There is a constant assertion that there is chaos in the minerals and energy area of Australia. Yet exports of iron ore, bauxite, lead, zircon and rutile are at record levels and the prices are also at record levels. For instance, there has been a continuing price increase in iron ore since 1972. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  secured revaluation compensation from the Japanese steel producers because the companies in Australia had their contracts written in United States dollars. When we revalued our currency against United States dollars they suffered a loss. That loss was recovered by the Labor Government. It would never have been recovered by a Liberal government because it would not have had the guts to stand up to the Japanese steel producers. The Liberals were treated like fools and lackeys by our trading partners and earned their disrespect because they were able to treat it so foolishly. Look at the price of coal. There has been a 200 per cent increase in the price of coking coal since 1972. There has been a 150 per cent increase in the price of steaming coal. In Queensland the export price of a ton of coal from the Blackwater mines in 1972 was $12.62. It is now $48. The export price of coal from the Peak Downs mines was $12.77. It is now $48.50. The same applies in respect of coal from the Goonyella fields and all of the others. Yet we hear the constant babble and the assertion that there is chaos in the minerals and energy area of Australia. 
The honourable member for Kennedy is now trotting out arguments about uranium. The Opposition parties in government had a direct embargo on the export of uranium for 1 4 years up to 1972. There were no exports of uranium until 3 weeks before the 1972 election when the then Minister for National Development,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, foolishly signed an agreement allowing the export of uranium to Japan because his Government apparently wanted for election purposes some  quid pro quo  with the companies involved. Three weeks before the election and after the writs had been issued that Government lifted the embargo which had lasted 14 years and it agreed to contracts. Since we have taken over the administration of the policy in this area, particularly in respect of uranium, we have said that we intend to export as much of it as we can. However, we wanted the market to develop because everyone in the industry knew that in 1972 and in 1973 it was a buyer's market, not a seller's market. Uranium oxide was selling on the world market at $6.50 per lb, a hopelessly low price when it was obvious that there were going to be massive increases in the price of petroleum. Putting it on an equivalent British thermal unit basis, it is obvious that every other energy resource had to increase in price. Yet we hear the nonsense of the likes of the honourable member for Kennedy and the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  asking: 'Why do you not export uranium?' When they were in government they had an embargo on the export of uranium for 14 years. Since 1972 the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has asserted that a market will develop in uranium as people look for alternative sources of energy supply and that as the new enriched uranium reactors come on line contracts will be set up to supply these reactors towards the end of the 1970s. Today uranium is trafficking on a world parity rate of $25 per lb, compared with $6.50 per lb just 2 years ago. This vindicates everything the Minister said about waiting to see when the market would develop and then getting into the industry and exporting. 
As late as last night there was a meeting of the Government on the Ranger development in the Northern Territory. We have entered into agreements with Peko-Wallsend Ltd for the refining, processing and mining of uranium in the Northern Territory. Because there were some administrative difficulties and a problem of cash flows with the companies concerned there has been a delay of a couple of months. But the real delay came from the inquiry into the national park, and now the environmental impact inquiry. The honourable member for Kennedy knows that the Minister for Minerals and Energy and the Government, at least to that extent, have been tied up until those 2 inquiries are finished and their findings published. But the clear intention of the Government was that it was to continue with the export of uranium. 
It was asserted that there has been a decline in the search for petroleum in Australia. I should like to quote from official statistics of the Australian Government Statistician, which the National Country Party of course refuses to recognise because they do not suit its political argument, on private off-shore drilling. In 1969 $37m was expended on private off-shore drilling; in 1970, $44m; in 1971, $42m and for 1972, the year the Labor Government took office, the figure is $61m and for 1973 it is $57m. No further figures are available yet. The figures for metres drilled in petroleum exploration show that in 1970, 68 000 metres were drilled. I shall not quote all the figures. In 1971, 58 899 metres were drilled; in 1972, 117 429 metres were drilled; in 1973, 88 000 metres were drilled and in 1974, 90 000 metres were drilled. Those are the statistics. Where is the argument of the Opposition? 
Any fool in the industry understands that the only place to look for oil is off-shore from Australia and not on-shore. The figures the Opposition always refers to in aggregate are the figures which were beefed up by the mining industry boom of 1969-70 and early into 1971. Of course every little tin pot mining company was selling worthless paper on the stock exchange, trying to justify its existence by drilling a few holes in the middle of the Northern Territory where there were no prospects whatsoever of the discovery of oil. Of course when the money dried up on the stock exchange they realised that there would be no money left in these companies and therefore the directors' fees and so on would dry up so the exploration activities stopped. Of course what remains is only the sensible exploration activity, and that is the off-shore activity which has not declined at this time but has increased. 
This has been made abundantly clear by Lewis Weeks and a lot of other people who have talked about exploration off-shore. The oil in Australia is on the prolongation of the Exmouth Plateau at the edge of the continental margin in about 1000 to 2000 feet of water. All the Northwest Shelf under 200 to 300 feet of water contains predominately only natural gas with some liquid hydrocarbons. But the oil is not there; it is off-shore where it takes about $4m to $5m a hole to drill to search in such depths of water. That is not the argument which the National Country Party would put because that would strain the limits of its intellectual integrity. It will not put this argument because it destroys its own case. 
Have a look at the Budget speech of the Leader of the National Country Party. He talked about giving direct subsidies to the industry. In his speech on the Budget there was not one mention of the re-imposition of the section 77 or section 78 concessions or the direct search subsidies. The National Country Party criticised the coal export tax levy of the Government during the Budget debate. There was not one mention in speeches from the National Country Party that would indicate to the industry that the National Country Party would take the levy off. It criticises us for putting it on but of course members of the National Country Party do not say that they will take it off, because they are hypocrites and humbugs. Of course the worst of it is that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Liberal Party allow this team of bushrangers and buccaneers, the National Country Party, to have the carriage of the minerals and energy policy for the Opposition in this Parliament. Shame on him for it. He should have the guts to stand the members of the National Country Party up and keep them in their proper places. They are a rump and a pressure group and they ought to be treated accordingly. But of course no Liberal Party leader has ever been able to do it. The National Country Party generally has its wilful way in the coalition. 
The Fitzgerald report into the industry, which the National Country Party and the Liberals tried to pass off as a political ploy 12 months before its findings were released, indicated that in the 15 years to 1974 the net return to the people of Australia, in respect of the massive exports in iron ore, coal, bauxite and the rest of our minerals, was that we paid the companies $25m. The Australian Government received no taxation benefits because of the taxation concessions of section 77 and section 78 and the direct subsidies. After 15 years of massive exports we paid the companies $25m for the privilege of having them here. How stupid can one get? The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  who is sitting in the chamber now and who was a Minister for National Development in a previous government, condoned this activity. All the other Liberal Ministers condoned the activity. 
An editorial in the  Australian Financial Review  a couple of months ago states that 'until the arrival of  Mr Connor  as Minister we had a succession of ministerial appointments who neither asserted nor sought to assert any strong political guidance over one area or energy policy where the Government did not have a direct involvement'. The editorial mentions nuclear energy and virtually says, as that publication has said constantly, that there was no management of Australia's natural resources by the LiberalCountry Party governments. It goes on to give what I suppose one could term a backhanded compliment in stating that the Minister has his faults but at least he has turned Government attention to future energy policies. There has been management of things. The Fairfax Press does not rap this Government, but begrudgingly it has to admit facts. The facts are that there is now some coherent policy in respect to all facets of minerals and energy. 
We put export controls on from the day we took office to guarantee that prices were in conformity with world parity and to see that the Australian producer was not robbed in world markets by straggling off to Japan and other countries as single producers, being picked off, one after the other, by the likes of Nippon Steel which negotiates for the totality of Japanese coal and iron ore consumption. The Japanese negotiate with the Ministry of International Trade and Industry, MITI as one force, government to government. The previous Government allowed our producers to go straggling off. New South Wales was bickering and fighting with Queensland and Queensland was bickering and fighting with Tasmania. That was the legacy the previous Government left to us. Of course now the situation is back into some order. 
Just to illustrate that nobody but the honourable member for Kennedy believes his propaganda, as late as 9 September this year the  Australian Financial Review  published an article on the economy which is headed: 
Mine search expenditure edges up over quarter. 
The article states: 
Mining exploration expenditure in Australia appears fairly stable according to figures published ... by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
The figures, although not booming, do not support the idea that exploration has virtually died under the Labor Government. 
The article goes on to suggest that there is no basis for the charge the honourable member for Kennedy made. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

That is a matter outside the ambit of my responsibility. The answer is no. 
The honourable member has asked 3 questions in one. I might make the point that in 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government no tangible steps were taken towards responsible government or the giving of powers to the elected Assembly in the Northern Territory. The people of the Northern Territory have obtained an elected Assembly since this Government came to power. The Administrator's Council is a council of elected people. We have passed the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill in this House despite opposition from the honourable member for Kennedy as well as from other members of the Opposition in this place and in the Senate. 
Finally, this legislation had to be validated by the High Court against challenge so that representation could be secured for the people of the Northern Territory. So no matter where one looks the Labor Party's policy has been implemented with expedition. The Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory, chaired by the learned and honourable member for Hunter,  Mr James,  has reported on the Territory. It is presently being considered by the Government. This matter bears upon the portfolios of at least half a dozen Ministers. It is a very complex matter and it is still under consideration. The second matter which the honourable member raises is not one within my responsibility. In respect of the third matter relating to the construction of homes in Darwin I might point out that to date 5000 homes have already been repaired. 
Last Christmas Darwin and the Northern Territory were subjected to the ravages of cyclone Tracy. This coming Christmas, the city, and indeed the whole of the Northern Territory are faced with another major disaster as a result of the grab for power by the Liberal and National Country Parties. The economy of the Northern Territory and the reconstruction of Darwin are heavily dependent upon government expenditure; indeed, they are more heavily dependent than any other part of Australia. The course on which the Opposition is set will deny the Territory funds that are crucial to its economy and to its social fabric. The denial of Supply will seriously affect every part of the Northern Territory community. These effects will become more evident over the next 4 weeks. All government construction work, including the vital reconstruction of Darwin, will come to a halt. Contractors and sub-contractors are faced with financial difficulties and possible bankruptcy. Thousands of workers will become unemployed. Suppliers of building materials will find that they are carrying large debts that in many cases may be irrecoverable. Salary payments to public servants will commence to cease by the end of November. It is estimated that from this date nearly half of the Northern Territory work force will be without income. A large part of the construction work force which is vital to the reconstruction will be lost to the Territory for years to come. The consequences of this for the Territory's commercial life are obvious to anyone. Loans for private housing reconstruction and the rehabilitation of small businesses in Darwin following in the wake of cyclone Tracy will also dry up within the next few weeks. The appropriations for assistance to primary producers and rural reconstruction are already under strain. This will cause further hardship to the already hard pressed beef industry. 
In brief, the outlook for the Northern Territory, if the Opposition continues with its present course, is one of disaster. I heard an interjection earlier from the honourable member for Kennedy. Perhaps the people of the Northern Territory including the people of Darwin would be interested to know that as late as last night the Opposition spokesman for the Northern Territory, the honourable member for Kennedy, and the honourable member for the Northern Territory.  Mr Calder.  voted in this House against the Appropriation Bills. They voted against payments to people in the Northern Territory and against the continued development of the Northern Territory. The have voted against every representation proposal of this Government affecting the Northern Territory as they have voted against the supply of money to carry on the life of the Northern Territory. They have voted against the continued development of the Northern Territory. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report on the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund for August 1975. Due to the limited number available reference copies of this report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain legislative authority to provide financial assistance to the Government of Queensland towards the cost of construction of flood mitigation works along the Properpine River in North Queensland. The assistance proposed is a non-repayable grant, not exceeding $374,400, representing 40 per cent of the estimated cost of works to protect the town of Proserpine and adjacent valuable sugar-cane farmland from floods of estimated frequency of once in 10 years. The grant by the Australian Government is conditional upon the Queensland Government also contributing 40 per cent of the cost of the works and the Proserpine River Improvement Trust contributing 20 per cent. This apportionment of Federal, State and local authority contributions- 40 per cent, 40 per cent and 20 per cent- is consistent with the Australian Government's overall approach to the problems of flood mitigation. 
Members of the House will recall the extremely serious flooding which occurred over extensive areas of North Queensland in December 1973 and in early 1974. Recognising that those disastrous floods demonstrated the need for an adequate approach to flood mitigation in areas likely to be affected in Queensland, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  wrote to the Premier early in 1 974 proposing that an investigation should be undertaken directed at the whole problem of flood mitigation in Queensland. The Prime Minister also invited the Premier to submit a State-wide plan on flood mitigation which could be a basis of consideration for Australian Government assistance. The Queensland Premier in response made clear the Queensland Government's view that one of the most urgent priorities was a flood mitigation scheme for the Proserpine River. 
The floods of December 1973 and January 1974 caused such substantial damage to the existing levee system that it immediately became evident that there was an urgent need for restoration works before the onset of the 1974-75 wet season. Indeed, it was apparent that the damaged levee system could not have contained even a modest river flow in the wet season. The Australian Government considered the special situation of the Proserpine River as a matter of urgency and a non-repayable grant of $120,000 was authorised under the Queensland Grant (Proserpine Flood Mitigation) Act 1974 to assist the Queensland Government in meeting the cost of urgent restoration works. It was evident at the time, however, that there was insufficient information available on which to base decisions for construction work and financial assistance for a Proserpine River flood mitigation scheme as a whole. Since then, a detailed investigation of the scheme has been carried out by the Australian Government in accordance with the National Water Policy procedures with the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation providing expert advice on the proposals. 
The Proserpine area is one of the most important sugar producing regions in Australia. The town of Proserpine and nearby sugar-cane farms adjoin the Proserpine River and its tributaries. The town and these farms have been afforded some protection against floods by unlicensed levee banks constructed over the years by farmers. In the main, these levee banks were constructed in an ad hoc fashion without full knowledge of overall hydrological implications or engineering practices. Consequently, these levee banks are susceptible to unpredictable failure. Moreover, floodwaters have been prevented by the levee banks from flowing into extensive natural pondages. The problems have been compounded by low natural river capacity downstream from the town of Proserpine. 
It is quite clear that, although allowing for completion of the necessary restoration works, the present system of levee banks overall is structurally unsound and inadequate to protect the town and farms. Summed up, assuming no levee failures, the levee bank system is capable only of containing flood flows of an assessed frequency of less than once in 3 years. It has to be recognised that potential points of failures during future floods are still largely unpredictable. The present situation is entirely unsatisfactory. The town and nearby farms must be afforded a greater degree of protection. 
The flood mitigation works for which financial assistance is to be authorised under the Bill are set out in the Schedule to the Bill. Briefly, these works consist of river improvement works; construction, reconstruction and realignment of levees; construction of spillways, overflow structures and levees to divert flood flows together with works on diversion channels; and regrading of a road. 
The estimated cost of the scheme is $936,000, of which the Australian Government's contribution, 40 per cent, is $374,400. Construction is scheduled for a period of 3 years. Apart from the value of the scheme from the flood mitigation and safety points of view, it will bring economic and social benefits. It is anticipated that the environmental impact of the scheme will be largely beneficial. In keeping with the Australian Government's positive approach to flood mitigation, financial assistance is warranted for this scheme. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report on the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund for September 1975. Due to the limited number of copies available, reference copies of this report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) I refer the right honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister representing the Minister for the Media to Question No. 1 58 1 published in Hansard of 4 December 1974, page 4590. 
For the second time within 2 weeks the Queensland Premier, rather rudely and intemperately, has suggested that I know nothing north of the Sydney Harbour Bridge. He has made disparaging attacks upon the Prime Minister and the Government. The truth of the matter is that the Premier of Queensland is indicating that he does not want to have any cooperation at all with the Australian Government and he sees his role as the Leader of the Queensland Government as continually badmouthing Ministers of this Government. His attack on me coincides with his visit to Alice Springs today on the pretext that he has to thank the people of Alice Springs for $17,000 donated by them to the Queensland flood appeal 2 years ago. So he is there after 2 years to thank them. Apparently he feels he must follow the Prime Minister around Australia to do what the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia is unable to do. 
The sadness that emerges from the Premier's visit is that it coincides with a meeting of officers of the Australian Northern Development Council. That Council consists of the happy trio of the Premier of Western Australia, the Premier of Queensland and myself as the  Chairman.  The officers of that Council are meeting this week to consider the following issues- the National Country Party members may be interested in them: Progress reports on the following studiesthe Burdekin Basin, the Bowen Basin, North Queensland and the Northern Territory, tropical housing design, rationalisation of air services in the Northern Territory, the need for greater uniformity of traffic regulations across northern Australia such as weight restrictions, assessing the value of satellite communications to northern Australia, and the development of Towns ville as a growth centre. They are the subjects under discussion. I put out a Press release this week indicating that if any progress is made at the officers' meeting- I have asked the Permanent Head of my Department to convey this to the officers- I will propose that the Ministers' Council should meet, that is, that I should meet the Premiers of Queensland and Western Australia. 
It is obvious that the Premier of Queensland is not interested in these issues or in Queensland. A further demonstration of that is a letter which he wrote last week to the Prime Minister saying that he does not want a grant of $ 1.45m towards the cost of constructing an all-weather sealed road between Karumba and Normanton. He does not want the loan of $2.8m towards the cost of the water supply and sewerage system to serve the township of Karumba. He has not yet sent correspondence accepting the grant provided by the Proserpine flood mitigation legislation which was debated in this House last week. None of his utterances about north-western Queensland and the Northern Territory are backed up by fact. They are simply another illustration of his tactics of continually bad-mouthing this Government. 
The second part of the honourable member's question dealt with the Premier's charge that the Prime Minister has been underhanded about Northern Territory representation. Without delaying the House I just want to make the point that the Queensland Premier's Government was one of the governments which in the High Court opposed Senate representation for the people of the Northern Territory.  His  Party in this chamber opposed and voted against Northern Territory Senate representation on 4 separate occasions. It is time the Premier of Queensland woke up to himself and started to put the interests of Queensland and the Northern Territory above his own selfish, miserable political interests. 

 -Mr Speaker, I give notice of my intention to present on General Business Thursday No. 5 a Bill for an Act to amend the Broadcasting and Television Act to exclude present and future newspaper investment from radio and television holdings. 
I ask a question of the Prime Minister. Will he identify the members of his Cabinet with rural interests who voted to reintroduce the superphosphate bounty at a time when pensioners did not receive their full cost of living adjustment? In the public interest will he tell the Parliament by how much each of these Ministers, including himself, will benefit from the bounty which is estimated to be worth $30m in the next full year? Lastly, will the Prime Minister undertake to ensure that the legislation when introduced has a provision to guarantee distribution of the funds so that the major benefit goes to small farmers? 
-Somewhat in anger and shame today I speak in the Address-in-Reply debate- anger because of the way this former Opposition came to power and shame because of a number of the policies it has already carried out. I think it is true to say that when the present Government was an Opposition, it was the most desperate and corrupt Opposition in the history of this Parliament. The entire constitutional upheaval that this country witnessed, the personal bickering between families and friends, was simply the result of a greed for power that could not wait 1 8 months for a legitimate election. The present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the GovernorGeneral, for one reason or another, have done more to diminish the power, the standing and the prestige of the House of Representatives than anyone else in our nation before them. Their actions increased the powers of the Senate when upper Houses and second chambers are becoming an anachronism around the world. So when the Governor-General said in his Speech 'my Government', indeed it really was his governmenta government that he had helped to create, a government he first installed on the floor of the House of Representatives while it did not command a majority. That was obviously a first, considering the circumstances, for this country and, I believe, for most others. 
Since the decision was taken to put the first Fraser Government into power, and now that it has been confirmed in power, the sad fact is that this has for all time confirmed the power of the Senate to obstruct the lower House, the House of Representatives, in the government of Australia and the administration of the government of Australia, because the Senate can now refuse a money Bill, something which it had never done, even taking into consideration the 1974 situation. The Liberal-National Country Party Opposition never really had what it took to actually refuse the Appropriation Bills a passage. What it did was use the vote of a man who died to make sure that no vote was taken upon them. On this basis we find that the House of Representatives is dissolved under the feet of a Party which commanded a majority twice within a 3 -year period- a completely indefensible situation and one which made us a laughing stock around the world. The problem with Australia is that it is a 2-party country with a one-party Press. We never got to the situation where there has been any real scrutiny of the forces of the Commonwealth in Australia as there is in Britain with newspapers like the  Guardian  and others. In the next few months if honourable members want to read the international Press which is in the Library they will see what the international Press had to say about the shenanigans in Australia and see how our image as a country has been impaired. It seems we have the worst of both worlds. We have a politically meddling vice-regal functionary assuming the reserve powers of a monarch, and a monarch, on her own admission, suggesting that she had no power to countermand the assumption of powers that he had taken upon himself. If that does not leave Australia back in the situation where America was in about 1770, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  said a couple of days ago, I do not know what it does. The disgraceful situation we have now in respect of the Governor-General of Australia is that every Government in the future will live in fear and trembling about the powers that the Governor-General has at his disposal, knowing that we have a monarch who has said that she is powerless to intervene and do anything about it. 
Our objection to what happened before the last election was that the then Leader of the Opposition the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  knew that the GovernorGeneral of Australia would only accept a double dissolution but the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  did not know. That is one condemnation of the role of the present Prime Minister and the Governor-General. I think it would be fair to describe forever the activities of those gentlemen as being part of what the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  termed a squalid establishment conspiracy. That is what it was. To add insult to injury we have seen the breaking of the traditional separation of powers between the judiciary and the Parliament. That separation was broken by the advice tendered by the Chief Justice to the Governor-General, even though the Governor-General had contrary advice from the Crown Law officer,  Mr Maurice  Byers, who is the Commonwealth SolicitorGeneral. That officer's advice was contrary to the advice of the Chief Justice which happened to fit in with the advice of the present AttorneyGeneral, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  who is a relative of the Chief Justice. If honourable members are looking for any evidence of conspiracy there certainly is a prima facie case staring them in the face. 
In the Senate yesterday  Senator James  McClelland presented a case to show that on 29 October the Governor-General had rung him at his residence and had suggested that he had to find a way out for the then Leader of the Opposition. It happened that on 21 October at Government House I was sworn in as a Minister. While I was there in the anteroom, waiting upon the Governor-General and the then Prime Minister who were having discussions, the GovernorGeneral 's private secretary,  Mr David  Smith, said in conversation to me that they already had a plan to solve the constitutional crisis. He volunteered that to me. I said to him: 'Can you enunciate upon it?' He said: 'No,  Sir, I  could not do that.' He said also that this plan would cover all contingencies. I also happened to attend an Executive Council meeting on 6 November, the last Executive Council meeting the former Prime Minister attended in the company of the Governor-General. Primarily it was held to appoint  Mr Clem  Jones as  Chairman  of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission and that is the reason I was there. Whilst the business of that meeting is to remain private I can say that throughout the meeting and afterwards there was nothing but the most cordial and jovial of circumstances between the Governor-General and the then Prime Minister. That was on the Thursday before the sacking on the following Tuesday. 
I want to state for the record that there was absolutely no way that the then Prime Minister could know that the Governor-General required only a double dissolution. It was very obvious that the then Leader of the Opposition knew because members of his Party were saying to me in the corridors of Parliament the week before: 'What is he up to, what is he doing?' They thought that Fraser had run out of steam and out of road. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! If the House will come to order we might be able to hear the point of order being raised by the honourable member for Griffith. 
I ask a question of the Minister for National Resources. Has Esso-BHP approached the Minister in either a formal of informal manner since the election and sought a further increase in the domestic price of crude oil? Did Esso-BHP argue that without a further increase in price development of the Flounder well in Bass Strait could not go ahead? 
I ask the Prime Minister whether it is a fact that the Minister for National Resources and Leader of the National Country Party is about to appoint the honourable member for Farrer as his assistant Minister. Will this set the pattern for other Liberal Party and National Country Party back benchers to take up similar positions with other Ministers? If this is the case will these assistant Ministers have any real function or is this simply a ploy by him to keep an increasing - 
-The Opposition opposes this legislation. The meat export charge of lc per lb was provided for in legislation introduced in 1973 to recoup partially costs to the Australian Government for inspection of export meat. Also, a charge of 0.6c per lb was provided for in the same legislation as an industry contribution towards the costs of the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. This charge was applicable only to beef and veal, whereas the inspection charge was on all export meat. Over the 2 financial years 1973-74 and 1974-75 the cost to the Australian Government for meat inspection was $45.6m, compared with a revenue collection of $26.4m. The differential of $ 19.2m is a reflection of the downturn in meat exports that set in after February 1974 following a sustained period of buoyant export market conditions. It was during the period of buoyant conditions that the charge was introduced. The effect of the repeal of this legislation is that in respect of meat inspection the cost to the Australian Government is estimated at $20m in a full year. Also, the estimate of forgone revenue from suspending the charge from 1 March instead of the scheduled expiry date in June is of the order of $5. 5m, and $8m including the disease eradication charge. 
The Government has chosen to defend this legislation by arguing that the Industries Assistance Commission report on beef recommended the suspension of the charge. Indeed it did; but it placed upon the recommendation 3 provisos, the first of which was- I quote directly from page 35 of the report- that the suspension 'should not take precedence over other assistance recommendations which are more clearly focused on the needs of specific classes of beef cattle producers '. Therefore, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  misinterpreted the IAC recommendations when he cited them in his second reading speech. The IAC went on to point out: 
Since liquidity has been identified as the overriding short term problem, the Commission considers that most short term assistance should be focused on that problem. 
But on this we have heard nothing from the Government. The Australian Labor Party is conscious of the fact that when the meat export charge was introduced it represented about 4 per cent of the saleyard price of cattle. In today's markets the charge represents a little under 10 per cent, which is indeed a significant increase. However, the Opposition believes, as it demonstrated when it was the Government, that financial assistance to the industry is a more appropriate form of assistance than suspension of what we believe to be a legitimate charge. Meat inspection, we submit, is part of the productive process just as slaughtering is and therefore the costs of inspection should be found by the industry the same as with any other facet of beef production. 
The IAC also recognises the basis of this view in its third proviso where it recommends that the suspension of the charge be reviewed when export prices improve. So the Labor Party has 2 premises for its opposition to the suspension of the inspection charge. Firstly, the inspection charge is part of the productive process and should be maintained, and secondly, we do not share the Government's view that the maximum benefit of the lifting of the charge will be returned to producers. This must primarily be the intention of the legislation. 
In the first and probably the final instance, the benefit will accrue to exporters. Whether the savings from the charge will be passed back to the producers is quite questionable. There is no evidence that when the Australian dollar was devalued any benefit was returned from the exporter to the producer. In theory, where there is effective competition among buyers and exporters the benefit from the suspension of the charge should flow back to the producers. But in practice it is always a different matter. The IAC itself admitted in its report at page 33: 
It has not been possible to determine how much of the benefits of a suspension of the export charge would be passed back to beef cattle producers. 
If the exporters were in the end the sole beneficiaries I do not believe it would unduly worry the National Country Party or the Government as a whole. A $28m gift this year to exporters by the Government I am sure would be most appreciated, particularly by the exporters. This would be particularly in contrast to the Fraser Government's frugal treatment of the needy with brutal expenditure cuts. 
It was my experience that when the Labor Party reduced tariffs across the board by 25 per cent in 1973 no appreciable benefit flowed to the consumer. The importers grabbed the lot. In similar terms there is no basis for believing that exporters will be falling over themselves to hand the savings back to beef producers. It is for the reasons I have mentioned that we in the Opposition oppose the suspension of the meat inspection charge. 
Another aspect which the Government has not considered is the duplication of inspection services. Presently all States except South Australia have inspection services. We also have a Federal inspection service which was established because countries like Japan and the United States of America require certification by Commonwealth meat inspectors. But no argument can be made for the duplication with State inspectors. Therefore a strong case can be made for the Commonwealth Government going to the States and requiring that the State inspections be dropped. Obviously if this were done there would be savings in the industry which may be passed on. Apparently this matter has never been looked at. 
The Opposition supports the Government's suspension of the 0.6c per lb charge for the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis and its replacement with a charge of $1 per head slaughter levy. This is implicit in the legislation. The suspension of the 1.6c across the board suspends both the inspection and eradication charge. The charge of $1 a head would raise about the same revenue as the 0.6c per lb and would be fairer in its application inasmuch as the whole industry would contribute to disease eradication rather than just the export part of it. The only point of variance between the Opposition and the Government in respect of the repeal of the eradication charge is the Government's belief that it must wait until 1 July to reimpose a charge. The $1 a head levy should, I believe, be imposed forthwith to compensate for the loss to revenue of the 0.6c per lb under suspension by virtue of this legislation. What that means is that between 1 March and 1 July, when the 0.6c per lb eradication charge will be taken off, a sum of $2.5m would flow straight back to the exporters and I do not believe they would hand it back to the producers because the charge is going to be operative again from 1 July. Therefore no case can be made for that. 
To summarise, the Opposition has made 2 points. It is opposed to the lifting of the lc per lb on meat inspection. It believes that this charge is part of the legitimate productive process of meat, particularly in respect of meat for export. However, the Opposition supports the lifting of the 0.6c per pound for eradication and its replacement with a $1 a head slaughter levy which would bear upon the whole industry and not just on the export industry. I think that it would be common sense to support such a proposal. As far as I can see there is no justification for believing that the lifting of the $20m revenue that flows from meat inspection would in some way be of advantage to beef producers because no one, including the IAC which I have already quoted, can suggest that the money will be passed back. That is a summary of the Opposition's objections, and its support for a particular part of the legislation. 
-At first glance I would have believed that the Government was perhaps in some way shirking its administrative responsibilities in respect of members' entitlements, inasmuch as they were administered by the Government and by a Minister. But perhaps in hindsight it was a wise decision to refer the matter to the Tribunal. But the Government takes upon itself, I believe, a certain amount of responsibility in referring this matter to the Remuneration Tribunal in the sense that all of the conditions of members of Parliamentnot only salary- are affected by the referral that it has given the Tribunal. They include matters which previously have not come within the ambit of the consideration of the Tribunal, matters such as travel, telephones and all of the other facilities which have been available. To that extent I believe that the referral by the Government should mean at least a  prima facie  commitment that it will abide by the decisions of the Tribunal. 
Now I do not point the finger of scorn in this respect because all political parties here at some stage have run out upon this Tribunal. I believe that the members of the Tribunal took the job on in good faith to make an independent and intelligent assessment of what they believe should be the remuneration and conditions of members of Parliament and other office holders. For one reason or another the Australian Labor Party and the Liberal and National Country Parties have chosen to run out on the determinations that that Tribunal brought down. I believe that that brought very cold comfort to the members of the Tribunal who made a great effort to assist not only in relation to the conditions and salary of members of Parliament but also in relation to the conditions and salary of other officers. I want to raise a couple of other matters at this stage. The  Clerk  at the table and the Principal Parliamentary Reporter are in the invidious position, as indeed are other officers of the Parliament, of being paid less than are other members of his staff occupying positions below their administrative responsibility. I believe that this is an intolerable situation. Any government that cannot guarantee a career structure for its officers must look at its policies. This same position applies in the office of the Parliamentary Counsel and in a lot of the statutory bodies like Qantas Airways Ltd and the Exports Finance and Insurance Corporation. In all of these corporations you find that the top administrative officers are paid less than the officers at the third or fourth level below them. This has arisen from the fact that many of these Tribunal decisions have been disallowed by a vote of either House of the Parliament. 
I believe this time there is an indication from the Government that when it refers all of these matters to the Tribunal it is at least endorsing the principle that the Tribunal is an independent body. I hope we never get to the stage where there is a private Government view put to the Tribunal or, indeed, that the Tribunal accepts it. There must be a situation in which the Tribunal makes an independent inquiry and that there is an independent adjudication upon the details of each particular report by the members of the Parliament. So a decision to refer all these matters to the Tribunal, I believe, carries with it the tacit understanding that we in the Opposition believe the Government will take the view that the Tribunal makes an independent decision and that all of these matters quite properly should rest with the Tribunal. 
I agree with the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in respect to superannuation. This has never been a matter which has been enunciated clearly so that the Tribunal understood it had the prerogative of deciding and recommending on matters in respect to superannuation. This was never made clear in the law and the Tribunal never understood what its complete ambit was. I believe that the members of the Tribunal have worked earnestly and consistently, not only in relation to matters concerning members of Parliament and office bearers but also on all the other ranges of salaries they have had to determine. They suffered the ignominy of having their reports disallowed by Parliament not because of the value of their reports, not because of the quality of their considerations or their recommendations but because of the politics at the time. We have reached the stage at which we have passed an Act of Parliament to establish the Tribunal. It is established and it ought to be independent. There should be no party decisions to disallow the reports in either House. It should be left to the votes of the members of Parliament to express any disagreement. But at the same time we should not forget that people other than members of Parliament are affected. They are the hundreds of statutory officers, including as I said earlier the officers of the Parliament, who have been seriously disadvantaged by earlier disallowances of determinations of the Tribunal. This has not guaranteed that a proper career structure exists within this part of the bureaucracy of the Commonwealth of Australia. That is a disgrace not only to the former Labor Government but also to this Government. The anomaly ought to be recognised and corrected very quickly. 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry considered the various plans put forward to the Government to solve the problems of the dairy industry? Is the Minister aware of the serious plight of many dairy farmers supplying manufactured milk and of the support of these farmers for the Australian Dairy Corporation's proposals? Does the Minister support those proposals? When will he announce new arrangements for the establishment of prices paid to dairy farmers for their products? 
-The States Grants (Fruit Canneries) Bill 1976 provides for financial assistance to fruit canners in Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia. Assistance will be provided by way of loan moneys to the States for an amount equal to half of the payments by each State in respect of advances to cooperative canneries to permit canneries to pay growers an additional payment for the 1975 season deliveries of apricots, peaches and pears. The Australian Government's commitment will be limited to $2,456,567. 
The Opposition does not oppose this legislation but seeks to amend it by requiring the Government to consider the Australian Industry Development Corporation report for the rationalisation of the industry and to act upon it. As an amendment to the motion that the Bill be read a second time, I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'while not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that (a) the problems of the canned fruit industry are a legacy of the reckless overexpansion of the production base fostered by successive Liberal and Country Party Governments throughout the 1960s, and (b) the Government should consider immediately the AIDC report handed down in September 197S, with a view towards significant rationalisation of this industry to prevent further hardship to growers and their families'. 
For the fourth time since 1970 this Parliament has had to legislate for assistance by way of loans to the fruit canning industry. In 1970 a loan of $4.2m was provided through the Victorian Government for the Shepparton Preserving Company Ltd. In 1971 there were payments through the New South Wales Government to the Letona Co-operative and through the South Australian Government for the Jam Preserving Co-operative and the Riverland Co-operative. On both occasions these grants were matched by State assistance. A total of $2.2m was provided from Canberra. 
In 1972 there were loans for the Letona Cooperative through the New South Wales Government and in South Australia there were again loans for the Jam Preserving Co-operative and the Riverland Co-operative, and through Victoria yet another loan for the Shepparton Preserving Co. Ltd- altogether, a total of $ 1.9m as a Commonwealth contribution. In November 1973 there was currency re-alignment assistance of $ 1.5m provided by way of grants to canneries exporting canned deciduous fruit. That $1.5m grant ameliorated the previous loans which had been lent to these growers in earlier times by about $800,000. Now in 1976, we find that canneries again are unable to meet their commitments and that these major co-operative canneries have been able to pay growers only 40 per cent to 60 per cent of the price declared in 1975 by the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee for fruits delivered for this season. Naturally, no institutional lenders will come to the aid of these canneries because of the intrinsic nature of the problems afflicting this industry. 
The payments of loans to the canneries concerned are as follows: In New South Wales the Letona Co-operative Ltd will receive $338,222. 
In Victoria the Shepparton Preserving Co. Ltd will receive $306,375, Ardmona Fruit Products Co-operative Co. Ltd $628,451 and Kyabram Preserving Co. Ltd $771,018. In South Australia the Riverland Fruit Products Co-operative Ltd will receive $412,500. The loans will be repayable within  2Vi  years, including interest at 10 per cent per annum. With a limited domestic market with potential only for moderate growth and with severe export competition from South Africa, the United States and Greece, the industry faces a classic problem of over supply. Australian canned fruit has suffered price reductions in the United Kingdom market and freight and market costs will diminish returns this year. Also upward movements in labour and material costs are having a deleterious effect on the viability of the industry. 
The shrinking exports of Australian canned fruit would seem to indicate a continuing trend with a 25 per cent tariff against Australian canned fruit in the European Economic Community, the extra competitive position of South African exports following the devaluation of the rand and the penetration of Greek canned fruit exports into the EEC by way of preference to Greece as an associate member of the EEC. Canada is also slowing imports of Australian canned fruit by requiring Australian canners to increase prices to avoid anti-dumping duties. Another mitigating factor against Australian exports is the large crops of the last few years in the United States of America and South Africa. There seems to have been a flight from reality by this industry in not recognising the signs in the market place. Apart from measures like eliminating price competition by Australian canneries in the export markets and selling under one label, there has been no attempt to significantly restructure the industry. 
It is because the livelihood of our 2000 growers and their families is affected by this crisis, along with the workers in canneries, that the Opposition will support this legislation. However, we believe that the AIDC report commissioned by the Labor Government should be considered immediately and not put off on the basis of securing an up to date report as the Minister indicates in his second reading speech. Obviously, the factors affecting this industry have not changed since the report was completed a short time ago. There may have been some minute changes but surely the general trend would have been sustained. I believe it is a ruse to give the Country Party a way out, in the immediate term, of coming to grips with the problems that beset this industry, most of which is within electorates held by the Country Party. All the canneries affected are situated, as are the growers, in areas represented by the coalition Parties in this House and therefore the Government is afraid to take a decision. The Leeton Cannery is in the electorate of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  of the Country Party. The SPC and Kyabram canneries are both in the electorate of the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and the Riverland and Berri Fruit Juices Co-operative Ltd canneries are situated in the electorate of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles.)  I hope that these men, will in the interest of these people they represent, vote for the amendment I have proposed to the Bill, or explain themselves to this industry and those who live from it. People in this industry should insist that the Government come to terms with the problem of the industry and implement a plan for its solution. 
However, the industry must also assist itself and such activities as a stupid price cutting war is perhaps the most short-lived and primitive form of market penetration there is. This little skirmish cost the industry somewhere between $4.5m and $6m this year- money it could ill afford to lose, particularly when it is now forced to come cap in hand to the Australian Government for $2.4m and the same from the States. Perhaps a better solution for expanding the domestic market for canned fruit would be to put export quality produce on the local market instead of the poorer quality fruit that is now available to Australian consumers. Surely there is no valid argument for denying Australian consumers first quality produce. 
Whichever way one looks at this industry, a stable and larger domestic market would be the best base upon which to restructure it. At present, the domestic market accounts for only one-third of production. Even from the short cut price campaign that was implemented by these canneries, the domestic market penetration rose considerably. It will probably drop off as the price stablilises But I believe that the point is that if we could get round to the situation where there is a higher content in terms of the domestic market, the industry would at least have a firmer base. Surely this would be helped by the presentation of first quality produce on the Australian market. 
The Opposition supports the legislation. It is at least humanitarian to guarantee that these growers and their families receive money which should be available to them from these canneries. It is a pity that now they are only going to get about 70 per cent of the FISCC price in this 
Bill, not 85 per cent, although the 15 per cent is to be made up by the canneries. But at least that is better than 40 per cent- 60 per cent. So we support the legislation. But there is no valid argument for putting off any longer some decision to restructure the industry. In the 1974 season there was some respite from the problems in the industry. Perhaps it did lull the then Minister for Agriculture and the Parliament into a situation where they believed that this industry was going to pick up. But that is not now the case. It seems that there is an overwhelming case for doing something in very serious terms about the plight of the industry. I might just deal again with the second part of the amendment which states: 
The Government should consider immediately the AIDC report handed down in September 1975 - 
By the way I have not seen this report; I do not think that anyone has- with a view towards significant rationalisation of this industry to prevent further hardship to growers and their families. 
I commend the amendment to the House. 
-The purpose of the Dried Vine Fruits Stabilization Amendment Bill 1976 and the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Amendment Bill 1976 is to extend the dried vine fruits stabilisation scheme for another 12 months. The Opposition supports both Bills. The present stabilisation scheme was operative from 1971 to 1975 and was introduced after proposals were put to the industry and supported by it. The previous Labor Government supported the scheme to stabilise this important industry with a contribution of $390,000 paid to the fund for the 1974-75 season. In the middle of 1975 when the previous Government realised the scheme would require reconsideration for possible extension, the then Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt,  arranged for a reference to be placed before the Industries Assistance Commission for a report and recommendation as to the future of the stabilisation scheme. The IAC in its interim report recommended the extension of the existing dried vine stabilisation scheme for the 1976 season on the same basis as the previous 5 years. 
The principles of this stabilisation scheme are in line with other orderly marketing or stabilisation practices inasmuch as where there is a variety of fruits involved a separate fund is mounted in respect of each commodity. Under this scheme a separate fund exists for sultanas, currants and raisins. A base price is established under the scheme each year for the various varieties of fruit by an assessment by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics as to the increase in the production costs of the grower. When average returns as calculated under the plan fall below the base figures by more than $10, a stabilisation payment is made. If the average return is exceeded by the basic price by more than $10 a levy operates. In both instances there is a maximum level of contribution payable by both the grower and the Australian Government. 
To date the stabilisation scheme has had only a small impact upon industry returns but the scheme does provide a degree of protection at a time when world production of dried vine fruit is unstable and where prices can vary by a large degree depending upon supply. For instance, in 1971- 72 the Australian Government contribution to the fund was $276,000 when the total value of production that year was $34m. In 1972- 73 the contribution was $850,000 against a production value of $29.7m. In 1973-74 it was $390,000 against production of $36.3m, while in 1974-75 there was no government contribution at all. However, the IAC notes in its report that the international market is likely to be oversupplied in 1976. This may lead to a diminution in prices at a time when production costs are still moving up commensurate with a high level of inflation, so a sizable government contribution may need to be made to the fund in 1 976. 
An indication of the volatility of export prices can be seen from 1972 onwards. In 1972 the f.o.b. price per tonne was $263, while in 1973 it was $611, in 1974, $584, and in 1975 it looks like being something less than $440 per tonne. As domestic consumption accounts roughly for only one-third of production, the effect of significant movements in export prices has dramatic consequences upon returns. Domestic prices have moved up constantly since 1967. Over the last 3 years the domestic price of sultanas was $583 in 1973, $694 in 1974 and probably around $835 for 1975. If, as expected, the northern hemisphere crop is larger than that of 1975 there will probably be a downward impact upon export prices and consequently grower returns. In these circumstances the Opposition believes that the extension of the scheme is warranted at least for 1976 and maybe further. The estimated 5500 growers in the industry do not enjoy a high level of income from this industry. According to a BAE survey, net farm income averaged over the 1971-72 to 1973-74 season was of the order of $4,500 per annum while 20 per cent of the growers were around the $2,000 per annum income mark, which is less than subsistence level. The IAC final report should shed some light on what recourse is available to these people. 
The Labor Party has always supported the principle of stabilisation and orderly marketing. The major stabilisation schemes- the wheat stabilisation scheme and the wool floor price scheme- were the products of Labor legislation. We support the extension of this scheme. The Opposition also looks forward to the early tabling of the IAC final report on the dried vine fruit industry and the Government's view of its recommendations. Finally, the Opposition supports both Bills, including the conversion of quantities and units referred to in the legislation to metric units. 
-The Opposition supports this legislation, as the legislation was first introduced by the Australian Labor Government's Minister for Agriculture,  Dr Patterson,  in the last days of the former Government and lapsed at the second reading stage, when the Parliament was dissolved on 11 November 1975. The purpose of this Bill is to provide for the inclusion of the labour component of the owner-operator of a wheat farm in the index used to vary the annual movement in the home consumption price of wheat under the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Plan. The current Wheat Industry Stabilisation Plan is the sixth since the Chifley Labor Government first introduced such a plan in 1948. Under the provisions of the Wheat Industry Stabilization Act, the Minister for Primary Industry is empowered to fix a home consumption price for the first season and vary the price on 1 December each year, based on costs defined in the legislation. 
This amending legislation flows from an undertaking by the Whitlam Labor Government in 1975 to review the calculation structure of the index for the home consumption price of wheat with a view to including the labour content of an owner-operator but not his managerial contribution. Prior to 1968 the grower received a guaranteed price on exports and a fixed home consumption price that was equal to the guarantee on the export price, with the proviso that movements be taken into account. The owner-operator allowance for labour was always included up to 1968. It was later removed after Treasury pressure to recognise only the outgoing cash costs for calculation, plus a fixed owner-operator labour cost. The commitment by the Labor Government to reinstate an award related owner-operator labour content to the home consumption price put paid to this previous practice. The amendment reflects the Labor Party's understanding of the considerable personal effort, particularly in terms of manual labour, that a farmer puts towards the success of his crop, often working many more hours a day and more strenuously than any person he may employ. 
The award rates issued for the calculation of the labour content are those of a station hand and a leading hand. It affects the price for the current year by, I believe, 62c a tonne. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics calculates the figure from survey information and the Wheat Index Committee adjudicates upon it. The 62c a tonne increase approved on this occasion will be effective from the day following the Royal Assent. This will move wheat from $98.70 to $99.32 a tonne. There will be no cost to revenue as a result of this legislation and only a minute effect upon the price of wheat products. So the consumer interest is not infringed upon. Under the legislation, the Minister for Primary Industry will be authorised to include this allowance for the owners of wheat farms in the home consumption price for the remaining four years of the plan. This proposal has the support of the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation and the State governments, which provide complementary legislation for the machinery of wheat stabilisation and marketing. The Labor Party supports the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Amendment Bill and believes it will encourage farmer-owners to keep up their important physical contribution towards the viability of their farms and the success of their crops. 
The Wheat Export Charge Amendment Bill 1976 and the Wheat Products Export Adjustment Amendment Bill 1976 are complementary to the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Amendment Bill, and the Opposition supports both of them. The Wheat Export Charge Amendment Bill expands the definition of 'wheat products' as contained in the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act 1974 and transfers these definitions to the 
Wheat Export Charge Act. The Wheat Products Export Adjustment Amendment Bill authorises the Australian Wheat Board to collect from exporters the difference between the export price and the home consumption price of wheat when the export price exceeds the home consumption price. The 2 Bills bear upon each other and upon the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Amendment Bill. 
In respect of the Wheat Export Charge Act 1974, the Wheat Board has found deficiencies in the existing legislation describing wheat products and products partially produced from wheat. Clause 3 of that Bill seeks to vary that definition by including wheat-based commodities such as new stock feed preparations now manufactured with about 20 per cent to 30 per cent of wheat. As the Australian Wheat Board is the sole seller of wheat for export the value of any wheat sold in a processed form recoups to the Wheat Board at the price such wheat content would have bought as plain wheat. The Wheat Export Charge Amendment Bill supports the argument of the Parliamentary Counsel that provision to tax exports should be in a charge Act. This Bill transfers that power to the Wheat Export Charge Act. The Opposition does not query either measure as both are of a machinery nature. 
In general the Opposition supports the 3 Bills which are being debated in cognate form. Originally similar legislation introduced by the former Labor Government, as I said earlier, lapsed on the notice paper when Parliament was dissolved on 1 1 November. I commend the Bills to the House. 
Mt  HYDE (Moore) (9.57)-The Bills before the House propose minor amendments to the wheat stabilisation package; firstly to enforce compliance with the intention of that package and, secondly, to effect greater justice to wheat growers by providing that that portion of the cost of production that represents the grower's own earnings escalates with rising costs. When considering these amendments we cannot ignore the scheme itself. Wheat stabilisation, which was introduced in the years immediately after the 1939-45 war, was regarded at the time by many as a basic wage for farmers. At that time memories of the great depression and disastrously low wheat prices were still vivid and greatly influenced attitudes. Basic or minimum wages keep wages up. However, a stabilisation scheme varies prices both up and down according to circumstance. 
At constant 1973 prices the five wheat stabilisation schemes prior to the current scheme have cost growers in the order of $409.92m. On 19 September 1974 the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  had incorporated at pages 1610 and 1611 of  Hansard  tables that quite clearly indicate the basis of that calculation. There is the near certainty that the current 5-year scheme will add considerably to the price that growers have paid for stabilisation. Yet there is a widespread belief that wheat farmers have done well because of stabilisation. That belief has developed into something of a statement of faith. 
Wheat growers over a long period are not demonstrably wealthier or less indebted than wool growers or cattle men who have not had the benefits of stabilisation. But the industry has grown and, once established, efficient wheat farmers have done well. There is no evidence that that is because of stabilisation. It might be for reasons indifferent to stabilisation, or even in spite of stabilisation. There is no evidence that stabilisation has caused the wheat industry to make the best use of the nation's resources. On the contrary, in the late 1940s and early 1950s when the world was short of grain and when buyers were anxious to pay for it, the growers' price was kept down and resources were directed to other enterprises, in particular to wool. 
It was no use Prime Minister Menzies urging farmers to grow more wheat when there were better profits in sheep. Conversely, at the end of the 1960s, wheat was in apparent over-supply. It was no use urging farmers at that time to produce less because it still paid better than alternatives such as coarse grain production. Production had to be arbitrarily limited by the imposition of quotas. These quotas, viewed with hindsight, need not have been as severe as they were. But it would have been a brave man in 1969 who predicted a bad season and a quick recovery to the world market. The overwhelming evidence is that the wheat industry has grown and that those in it have prospered, not because of stabilisation but because Australia produces wheat efficiently, land is cheap, holdings are large and technology is high. We can produce wheat more cheaply than our competitors and still make a profit. 
Reference to the 1974 annual report of the Industries Assistance Commission indicates that its effective rate of protection has been low, and at present it is certainly negative. In many countries home market producers are highly protected. I do not believe their governments or their consumers will wish forever to deny themselves purchases from the cheaper world market. I believe, therefore, that the Australian wheat industry has a bright future so long as the present policies towards the removal of barriers to world trade continue to find favour. However, we should know that of the 23 OECD countries Australia was one of only 2 nations whose trade as a proportion of gross domestic product fell during the decade of the 1960s. Australia cannot expect to sell on world markets if we are not prepared to buy on them because our attitude invites retaliatory action, such as the Philippines recent embargo on imports from Australia, and also because a policy of import impediments maintains an exchange rate that ensures that our exports have greater difficulty competing on those world markets. 
It is not my purpose, however, to question the principle of wheat stabilisation. It has evened out the more violent fluctuations and, more importantly, it has insured against disastrously low prices. It has transferred some of the risk of the market place to the public via the Government. Government is big and better able to absorb that risk than our individual farmers. What I am questioning is the myth that stabilisation is all right and all-wise and that it should be left well alone. What I am trying to do is to convince honourable members that there is indeed room for improvement. If there is room for improvement, now is the time to make it while prices are high. We should look carefully at the opportunity to improve the scheme in the national interest as well as in the growers' interest. When the home consumption price is well above the stabilised price, growers near a State border possess a quite unfair advantage over those growers who are so far from a border that freight costs prevent them from selling all their grain at the home market price. They have a quite unfair advantage over those who believe that such behaviour is quite improper. Every tonne sold across the border is a tonne not sold at the home consumption price by the pool. Every additional dollar made from an across the border sale is a dollar not earned by those who pool their grain. 
In 1968 and 1969 domestic sales by the Australian Wheat Board fell from about 1 900 000 tons to about 1 600 000 tons, only to rise again to about 2 200 000 tons when the stabilised price again rose above the home consumption price. This suggests that 300 000 to 600 000 tons will be sold outside the pool while it pays to do so. Whatever the merits of using the home market to limit the more violent movements in growers' returns, it is not justice that some growers receive greater benefits in times of low prices while only bearing a proportionate share of the costs in time of high prices. It is not helpful to the Wheat Board or growers to have to achieve a determined degree of price stability using a home consumption price that affects only a portion of the home market. It is not fair to some producers of wheat products, eggs or bacon that other producers can buy their grain for less than they can. It is not economic sense that this advantage is arbitrarily determined by proximity to a State boundary. It is not certain that the Commonwealth powers can be used to prevent these problems, but it appears unlikely. It is not certain whether the individual States can or will pass legislation that brings all wheat into their ownership as it leaves the farm gate and thus prevent across the border sales. Now is the time when vested interests in across the border selling are low. Now is the time to endeavour to avoid this problem for the future. 
The 1969-71 wheat slump demonstrated the impossibility of setting a price too far from the world market without the necessity of imposing quantitative restrictions on production. If growers are to be paid a price at which they expect to make a profit from a particular paddock, and it is a better profit than they expect to make from alternative use of that paddock including reserving its fertility for another year, there is every chance that they will crop that paddock irrespective of world markets or national stocks. If price is not to be a disincentive to overproduction then another disincentive is necessary. 
Quotas are one such disincentive. Nonnegotiable quotas strike at growers without reference to the individual grower's ability to direct his resources to other activities. For example, a dry outer wheat belt farm that grows wheat efficiently but where stocking rates are low and rainfall too light for acceptable coarse grain yields receives the same proportionate cut in production as a property that might draw income from a stud and an excellent coarse grain enterprise. The operator of the latter business would need to be offered only a very small price to be induced to sell the quota. The operator of the former business could afford to pay a tidy price for wheat quota before opting for, say, barley production. No sale of quota would take place unless both farmers were advantaged by the deal. 
Quotas are inefficient in that they direct resources to other than the most profitable employment. I know a farmer who did not use his wheat quota because his property had reached the stage of development where it was more profitable to do other things with it. This man was and still is desperately short of cash. Other farms were geared up with plant and labour to grow wheat and to do little else but were denied the right to sell their produce at any price. Quotas are inefficient but much less so if negotiable. Quotas give rise to acrimony. I still think that Western Australia fared badly under the 1969 to 1973 quotas. Quotas limiting the right to sell at any price are not the only means of limiting production. Price can be used without abandoning the insurance of stabilisation. It would be possible to issue quotas, preferably negotiable, conferring the right to sell just so much wheat at the stabilised price while permitting further production and sales on a going world market- in other words, a 2-price scheme. Such a system would have appeal to efficient producers and to those who believed that quantitative restriction of the production of food in an underfed world is immoral. 
The 1969-72 wheat slump emphasised other restraints to Australian wheat production that are perhaps unnecessary. These arise from the fair average quality system and from the registration of varieties. I have no doubt that the great uniformity has some advantages. Australian standard white is well known and buyers know that it is what it is stated to be. There certainly are some cost savings associated with the sale of a big uniform product. 
Price and market opportunities lost, though substantial, are more difficult to identify. The grain market is probably a continuous range of requirements which we are trying to satisfy with a product identified by broad discreet classification. Wheat varieties are registered to ensure that they fall within that broad classification. We do not know what opportunities have been lost because of the inability to satisfy more exactly the requirements of the purchasers of Australian standard white wheat, but the fact that buyers sometimes endeavour to stipulate the port of shipment for reasons other than freight costs leads me to suspect that these opportunities merit further consideration. We do not know what opportunity exists for the production in Australia of varieties that fall outside the Australian standard white classification, and those classifications that are necessarily associated with it, such as the under-grade classifications. 
I suspect that some farmers could produce the low price high yielding varieties such as the dwarf varieties more profitably than the varieties which they are at present permitted to produce. These people would sell to different markets and in times of over-production they would not crowd the bread wheat market. Most importantly, some growers would be in a position to change from one market to another according to demand. 
If in 1969-70 some growers had found a profit from the production of stockfeed wheat varieties or from a specialist variety, other growers would have welcomed the extra quota available to producers of Australian standard white. Such opportunities can best be discovered and the necessary knowledge accumulated by permitting individual growers to pursue the opportunities as they see them. Of course there are very real administrative difficulties. Perhaps they really are prohibitive but it is time the industry asked itself whether it is paying too high a price for market simplicity. 
We know that in general buyers pay more for clean whole grain of high protein and high baking strength and yet the payment to growers of f.a.q. wheat begets f.a.q. deliveries. There are no market rewards that encourage the farmer to produce better than fair average quality except the fortunate general correlation between high fertility, high yield and high quality. There is no price disincentive against choosing to grow a wheat of low protein level from poor soil and high rainfall. It pays to deliver every wild oat seed possible up to the number allowed before dockage. A tonne of a soft variety such as insignia pays a grower as much as a tonne of gabo. Is it not possible to pay growers a price that would more closely reflect market preference? This price might be determined at the Wheat Board's leisure from samples from the individual grower's deliveries taken at the time of delivery. 
Finally, I question whether it is necessary to place in some of the complementary State wheat stabilisation acts and variety registration acts powers of search and entry we do not allow our police. Sometimes laws to control industry trespass on personal liberty to a degree not permitted under the criminal code where the purpose is to protect life and property. Few people realise that officers administering these Acts may enter and search homes without the warrant required by policemen. When we tamper with a market system in order to mitigate its harshness we certainly open up a can of worms. It is not impossible to sort out a can of worms but it is certainly very difficult; it certainly requires time and patience. There are not likely to be any panaceas and I do not suggest any. My purpose is to encourage a questioning of some of those things I believe ought to be questioned, not least by the members of the industry themselves, at a time when the industry is strong enough to place its house in order.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I commend the Bills to the House. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (10.13)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I support the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Amendment Bill 1976, the Wheat Export Charge Amendment Bill 1976 and the Wheat Products Export Adjustment Amendment Bill 1976. Because I am told that the Minister wants to get these Bills through the House tonight it is not my intention to deal with them at length. However, I do want to touch on one of the matters mentioned by the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde).  He said that there is always room for improvement in a stabilisation Bill. I agree with the honourable member. That is one of the reasons why I wish to support the legislation before the House tonight. I believe that the proposed amendment of the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act will result in a better stabilisation scheme. 
The inclusion of the labour component of the owner-operator of a wheat farm in the index used to vary the annual movement in the home consumption price of wheat will do much to improve the scheme. We should at all times endeavour to improve our stabilisation schemes, as the honourable member for Moore has pointed out, because they remove the uncertainty in the minds of the growers and allow them to plan their production over a longer period. This often results in greater financial investment and, with better planning, brings back a greater financial return to the grower. 
This House has already been informed that the Bill has the endorsement and ready acceptance of the industry. One would expect this to be so because its basic aim is to bring to the industry security or protection against price fluctuation. The value of a stabilisation scheme is the fact that it sets out to protect against price fluctuation without undue interference with the market price, although I must admit that on occasions this would be justified as it is in the wool industry already mentioned by the honourable member for Moore. These were the things that the Labor Government had in mind when an amendment to the Act was first proposed by the then Minister for Agriculture,  Dr Patterson. 
The inclusion of the labour component in the index in the owner operation of the wheat farm is a justified measure, and I believe one that is long overdue. As a matter of fact I cannot help recalling that in the Bill that has just been passed by the House we did not see this movement in the wage component. I do not think there is any justification for leaving out the labour component. Everyone must realise that it is a very significant part of wheat farming. Should something happen to the health of the wheat farmer or the wheat owner-operator and his ability to do the work himself, this provision could mean the success or failure of a wheat farm. So it is only natural that the labour component should be taken into consideration. It is of some satisfaction to me to know the history of this stabilisation scheme since it was introduced by the Chifley Government in 1948, to know that the labour component was included from 1948 to 1968 and to know that it was the Whitlam Government that first set out to reintroduce the labour component. 
The measure will help in the stabilisation of the price related to movement in the international wheat price. I support the amendment because no government should support a scheme which is not related to the requirements of either the international market or the home consumption market. If this were not so our valuable resources could be wasted or an excess production of wheat take place. We should be concerned not only with the fluctuation of the price of the wheat in the world market but also we should be conscious of the world consumers. A greater effort should be made to set up a world food bank. I have already mentioned this aspect tonight. The same argument applies to the wheat industry as it does to the dried fruit industry. I believe that Australia should give a lead in this direction. Not only would such a world food bank save many human lives but it would also provide a steadier income to the producer. I do not want to take up the Minister's time. It is very pleasing to support the Bills which I hope the Minister will be able to have passed by this House this evening. 
-The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  came into the chamber tonight and attacked the Opposition in a disgraceful way after not being able to defend his own legislation. He came in the House and introduced a piece of legislation with 1 5 lines of argument - 
-In directing a question to the Minister for Primary Industry I refer the Minister to his speech to members of the Royal Exchange of Sydney. Does the Government intend to preclude the Industries Assistance Commission from inquiring into Government assistance to the rural sector? Is the Minister planning to return to the pre-December 1972 era when major decisions on financial support for farmers were argued and taken behind the closed door of Cabinet with political consideration as the main criterion? Is he aware that the Chief Executive Officer of the Graziers Association of New South Wales in a note to the newspapers flowing from the speech the Minister made to the Royal Exchange has criticised any attempt to destroy the independence of the IAC? 
-The purpose of the legislation is to reintroduce the phosphate fertiliser bounty for a period from 1 1 February 1976 to 30 June 1977. The Opposition opposes this legislation. The former Labor Government decided to remove the superphosphate bounty because the costs to revenue were more than could be justified in the light of the benefits flowing from the application of the subsidy. The cost to revenue in the first half of 1976 will be approximately $ 17.4m or $30m in a full year at present rates of usage. In the last full year of operation of the bounty the cost to revenue was $67m. The subsidy is an across-the-board type which fails to discriminate in favour of those most in need. Approximately 70 per cent of the subsidy goes to only 20 per cent of the farmers. The reintroduction of the subsidy at $11.81 per tonne, which is the dollar value of the subsidy fixed in 1969, represents now a much smaller proportion of the cost of superphosphate than it did then. In January 1970 the average bulk price of single superphosphate per tonne was $ 1 4.8 1 compared to a bounty of $1 1.81. By January 1975 the average bulk price of single supherphosphate per tonne was $54.45. Consequently this legislation to reintroduce the subsidy is only of token assistance, with the $11.81 representing something less than 20 per cent of the cost of superphosphate. Obviously it will have little effect upon usage rates, as the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Government well know. 
The reasons given by the Industries Assistance Commission at page 4 of the interim report of 3 1 July 1975 are weak and should give little comfort to those farmers who believe that the final report due in June this year will recommend the retention or even the upgrading of the bounty. Let mc quote a few lines from the Commission's reasons: 
On balance it would be reasonable to give using industries the benefit of the doubt pending completion of its inquiry. It does this notwithstanding its view that, at this stage of the inquiry, the assistance could be achieved at lower cost through more direct measures. 
I shall be surprised if the final report does not recommend the discontinuation of the subsidy. and I shall be further surprised if the Government continues with the farce. Under Treasury pressure during Budget discussions it is highly likely that the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  and his leader,  Mr Anthony,  will cave in and drop the pretence altogether. If these Ministers were really interested in effective help for farmers they would be pursuing more substantial and progressive assistance schemes instead of hitching their wagons to this ineffective, discredited though nevertheless emotive subsidy. 
The farce of this bounty is perhaps best illustrated by figures released recently by the South Australian Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Brian  Chatterton, M.L.A. They showed that of the 25 052 farmers receiving the subsidy in South Australia only $141.72 on average per head of subsidy went to 18 500 of these farmers. Forty farmers received an average of $8,857.50 per head. Ten received $17,715 per head, and 2 received $59,050 average per head. The 18 500 used only 12 tonnes of superphosphate on average, which is a different picture from the 40 tonnes on average spoken of in official Australian Government documents as an indication of the average usage in South Australia. Naturally government documents referring to average figures for usage rates in all the other States fail to take account of the fact that the majority of producers are receiving less than the average amount. Obviously those most able to afford superphosphate application will receive most of the bounty. Those who use the most in terms of tonnage receive a commensurate wad of subsidy at the public expense. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is among those people receiving something like $9,500 per annum. He is receiving that for his properties in Victoria. Other Ministers in the Government are in a similar situation, much to their eternal discredit. Assistance to the needy is reduced by these people who vote themselves these large slabs of public funds by continuing this subsidy. 
Commissioner Robinson, in his dissenting opinion in the IAC report, points out that the bounty is an inequitable and ineffective means of tackling the urgent and varied problems faced by many rural producers. He said, amongst other things: 
Since the generalised nature of the bounty obscures the pattern of recipients it will also tend to obscure the legitimate claims of many farm sectors for immediate and effective assistance. 
Of course members of the National Country Party and the Liberal Party care little of this. They are more interested in token panacea than they are in providing effective help for farmers in trouble. 
The Australian Labor Party, in government, by contrast, did look at ways of trying to provide assistance by way of a superphosphate bounty to the many smaller producers who needed help. It did this by looking at a scheme to limit the tonnage which would be subsidised, to ensure that nearly all the funds went to the smaller farmers. It was advised, however, by the Department of Agriculture and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics- I quote directly from documents: 
1 ) the size of the task force needed to administer a tonnage limit/farmer claims system could not be justified; 
the complexities of establishing a 'per farm' system would be great, given such potential inequities us partnerships, etc. 
In the light of these considerations, the subsidy was removed and has now been reintroduced in only the most token way. Farm management adjustment changes that may have been affected since the termination of the bounty in 1974 will now be thrown completely out by this interim restoration. As  Mr Robinson  pointed out, a selective intensification of agricultural extension activity in the area of fertiliser application levels may be of more real assistance to a wider group of .farmers than would be a bounty based solely on fertiliser consumption. The bounty has no doubt contributed to wastage of superphosphate which could and should be corrected. The reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty by this legislation is a cynical attempt by the Government to appear genuinely interested in the plight of small needy farmers, when in fact this is not so. The legislation is regressive in its operation and is not deserving of support. 
By contrast, the second Bill in this cognate debate, the Nitrogenous Fertiliser Subsidy Amendment Bill 1976, is in a different category. This Bill extends the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy for a period of 12 months. The Bill does this so the Government, to paraphrase the words in the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry, can have time to make up its mind. Obviously on this issue the Government does not have a policy. During the election campaign the Minister for Primary Industry said in unequivocal terms that the Government would continue the subsidy at its present level indefinitely. It does not honour that undertaking. It is now hanging fire for 12 months to decide whether to phase out the subsidy. So much for Country Party commitments. On the other hand, the Opposition supports the legislation to extend the subsidy, as it intended to do when in government.  Dr Patterson,  a former Labor Minister for Agriculture, had a submission before the Labor Cabinet to extend the subsidy at the time of the Government's dismissal in November last year. 
The Opposition believes that there is a distinction between the equity in the application of the nitrogenous substances bounty and that of the superphosphate bounty. While the superphosphate bounty applies a subsidy on the basis of tonnages, as the nitrogenous bounty does, the disparity in acreages spread for farms using superphosphate is far greater than in farms using nitrogen, such as in the sugar industry. While the South Australian figures demonstrate the disparity in tonnages and the inequity of the superphosphate bounty, the horticultural industries generally have more uniformity of farm acreages. In the sugar industry, where there is controlled planting, disparity in the size of farms is nowhere as great as it is in farming generally. This means that the farm average spread of nitrogen is nearer the spread on the majority of farms. There is quite a distinction between average spread and the spread on the majority of properties. Obviously the bounty is applied more fairly and equitably. Besides this, the total value of the subsidy is $12m per annum, where the superphosphate bounty is estimated, at current rates of usage, at $30m, though it was $67m in the last full year of the subsidy. 
The reference to the IAC on manufactured nitrogenous substances was forwarded to the Commission by the former Prime Minister in June 1974. The Industries Assistance Commission was asked to report whether a subsidy should be available from the Australian Government and the amount, duration and consequences of the subsidy. The Commission pointed out at page 1 of its report that its analyses came largely under 3 headings. The first was the effect on the efficiency of resource use of continuing or terminating the subsidy. The second was the justification for the subsidy as a means of income support. The third was whether adjustment to change would be facilitated by the subsidy. While these criteria may be valid, the Opposition believes that other vital factors must be considerednamely, the equity in the application of the subsidy, as I have mentioned, and the desirability of maintaining the nitrogenous substances industry to ensure the continued growth of the sugar industry and other horticultural industries independent of supply fluctuations from the major nitrogenous substance exporting countries such as Japan and the United States. 
Nitrogenous substances are the by-product of certain gases and substances. Natural gas, refined gas and naptha are used in the production of urea, sulphate of ammonia and aqua ammonia in an industry which exclusively caters for the horticultural industries. From the time of the introduction of the subsidy in 1966 there has been a significant change in the market situation in Australia, where the local industry now supplies most of the domestic requirements. By contrast, in 1966-67 imports made up the major share of domestic consumption. Obviously there has been an upgrading of local capacity since that time which should now not be put at risk. 
Much of the local industry's protection against dumped imports and genuine imports stems from the operations of the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Act. Under the Act local producers are limited in the prices they can charge for these substances. The subsidy is then deducted by local producers from the prices charged to their customers. Subsidy is available on imports only if the local manufacturers arc not prepared to sell their products on terms equal to or as favourable as those which could be obtained on undumped imports. 
So to use the Industry Assistance Commission's own words; 'if Australian manufacturers offer fertilisers equivalent to those imported at prices no higher than the prices of the undumped imported fertilisers, the purchaser pays less for local fertiliser than for imports by at least the amount of the subsidy'. Therefore the local industry is protected by the operation of this Subsidy Act, enabling it to satisfy most domestic requirements. If the subsidy were terminated presumably imports at undumped prices would eat into domestic production, leading to an eventual higher domestic price, making the local producer again less competitive, leading to a further diminution in domestic production. While the Commission argues that export markets would be available for any excess local producers may produce to keep their unit costs down- I am not convinced that imports are more than competitive with local produce in Australia- why should it follow that Australian exports could be competitive on export markets against undumped produce or indeed against dumped produce? 
I believe the Opposition is on firm ground in arguing that the cessation of the nitrogenous subsidy would eventually lead to the elimination of the local nitrogen industry and would put the future of the Australian sugar industry and other horticultural industries at the whim and caprice of other major nitrogen exporting countries. 
Japan and the United States could, if they wished, hold the Australian sugar industry to ransom. Towns like Cairns, Ingham, Innisfail, Tully, Mackay, Ayr and Bundaberg, could be in jeopardy if the Australian sugar industry was so affected. Besides this argument, there is the quite valid argument that although the subsidy costs revenue $12m, the savings in foreign exchange would be quite considerable and worth saving, let alone the foreign earnings raised from sugar production and wheat production. Also, if the Government were to drop the nitrogen subsidy and decide to protect the local nitrogen industry with a tariff, not only would farmers have to pay more for nitrogen but it would not be long before domestic prices nudged up just a little below the imported price plus tariff. Therefore, it would still be better to stay with the present bounty instead of instituting a specific scheme for the protection of the local nitrogen industry. 
The Opposition accepts the Commission's view on the maintenance of existing application rates. We believe its conclusions are quite correct. We agree with the Commission's view that the subsidy is an inefficient means of basic income support. We do not demur from that. But these, as I said earlier, are not the only considerations. It is for the reasons I have outlined that on balance the Opposition must pass over the Commission's view and opt for the maintenance of the subsidy. The Opposition supports this legislation and urges the Government to make up its mind on the issue. With such little resolve on the part of the Minister for Primary Industry and the Country Party, who could blame the Treasury for believing the subsidy should go in the next Budget. 
I ask the Minister for National Resources a question. I refer him to his speech last night to the Australian Mining Industry Council in which he said,  inter alia,  that the future of Australia was threatened if Australia did not export material obtained through the extractive industries. If he believes that uranium involves the security of Australia, why has he eradicated all Government involvement in this industry, leaving the exploration for and processing of uranium to private companies, many of which have foreign content and many of which have very small amounts of paid-up capital? 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Are second-hand buses presently being imported into Australia. 
If so, will he indicate the (a) quantity, (b) type and (c) country of origin of vehicles (i) presently being imported and (ii) imported in the last 12 months. 
-On Monday evening the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  in a major speech to the Australian Mining Industry Council, revived the disgraceful and discredited yellow peril concept as a basis for the Government's resources policy. In a matter of minutes he fractured a relationship of trust and mutual interest that had been built up over the recent years with our major trading partners, particularly Japan. He said: 
I believe the best way to ensure that we do not provoke others to try to get access to our resources by force is to make those resources available to them on fair and reasonable terms. 
This statement attributed to our major trading partners, particularly Japan, attitudes and foreign policy initiatives for which there is absolutely no basis. The  Deputy  Prime Minister has caused severe embarrassment to the Australian Government and to the Department of Foreign Affairs, which has a better understanding of the fundamentals of our international relationships than he has. 
From the table he chides me. I say to him: Let him come clean. Let him say if and when he had some indication from another country of its intentions to resort to force. Let him identify that country. If he remains silent on these matters we can assume only that his utterances were a fabrication and the product of a bankrupt, cynical mind. All the editorials in this morning's Press, bar one, condemn the Deputy Prime Minister's statement. The editorial in the  Melbourne Age  stated: 
There may be good arguments for mining and selling Australia's uranium. But they are not the scaremongering and reckless arguments that  Sir Philip  Baxter and  Mr Doug  Anthony have been advancing in recent days. 
It also stated: 
It is a tactic which Australian politicians have long exploited, sometimes to their own cynical advantage and always to their shame. It is time they stopped. The public deserves better of its politicians than this simplistic and alarmist nonsense. In particular, it deserves better of its Deputy Prime Minister. 
The editorial in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  which is not known as a journal which supports the Australian Labor Party, stated something in the same vein. It stated: 
The scare-mongering engaged in by  Mr Anthony  on uranium exports is extraordinary behaviour for Australia's  Deputy  Prime Minister. To suggest that it is a case of export or be invaded is quite irresponsible. 
It also stated: 
It is a silly and dangerous approach to take, and  Mr Anthony  implicitly admitted as much when he sought to justify and modify his remarks in Parliament yesterday. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister's mouthings about needing to reassure Japan and other countries of our willingness to sell and to negotiate fair and reasonable prices, as he terms it, are so much jargon. How could Australia negotiate a price when the Government believes we should sell our uranium at break-neck speed to save ourselves from armed attack? What sort of bargaining position would we have? The  Deputy  Prime Minister has done nothing of significance in the minerals field since the Government took office. He dashed off on a fruitless junket to Japan to seek a trade-off for increased beef exports at, as we now find, the expense of valuable iron ore and coal contracts. Already the mining industry is concerned at the performance of the  Deputy  Prime Minister and at his inability to deliver the goods. Look at some of his remarks during his speech on Monday in relation to iron ore. They have similar application to coal. He said: 
In regard to iron ore, ... I made the point while in Japan that if cutbacks cannot be avoided, I will be looking to the Japanese steel mills to ensure that at least minimum contract tonnages are accepted. I indicated also that I want to see that the Australian producers are treated no less favourably than suppliers from other countries . . . 
Listen to this piece: both in terms of the reduction . . . 
It is apparently part of his state of mind- and the make-up of tonnages as conditions improve. 
This means that in the rough world of international commodity negotiations Australia has become the soft option. Each time the United States or any other supplier gets too tough or economic conditions are not favourable in Japan the respective overseas governments know that the Australian Government, under a LiberalNational Country Party coalition, can always be relied upon to agree to cutbacks in tonnages and prices. The last example of this was in 1 970 when the Liberal-Country Party Government agreed to cutbacks in iron ore shipments to Japan. Australia gives assurances on supply; apparently the Japanese are allowed now to renege on markets. The Labor Government gave firm assurances on supply, provided assurances on markets were kept. It was expressed as a relationship between a willing seller and a willing buyer. 
With respect to coal, the  Deputy  Prime Minister refused to ally his remarks to those he made about iron ore.  Mr Anthony  came away from Japan expecting reductions in the tonnages and price of coal- a complete negation of the terms of the famous Inayama Agreement of 1975 that was signed by the Australian Government and  Mr Yoshihiro  Inayama on behalf of the Japanese steel mills. Under this agreement- the largest trade deal in Australia's history, involving $7,000m worth of coal exports- Japanese producers were to double their purchases of Australian coking coal within the next 5 years. I quote from the text of the letter from  Mr Inayama  to  Mr R.  F. X. Connor, the then Minister for Minerals and Energy. This letter came from the  Chairman  of Nippon Steel, who negotiates on behalf of all Japanese steel mills. I want these words noted carefully. The letter states: 
We have now examined our expected requirements for the years up to 1980. It is our sincere intention then, and continuously, to purchase the maximum quantity of coking coal from Australia on the condition that such coal from Australia is competitive and its quality acceptable to Japanese consumers. 
This is the crunch clause: 
If, through economic circumstances, there should be any reduction in the manufacture of steel in Japan, we would not reduce our annual purchases committed under the long term contracts of coking coals from Australia. 
On the contrary, we would reduce our purchases under spot-sales contracts in order that there should be no reduction in purchases from your country. 
Those are the words of the  Chairman  of Nippon Steel. He went on to say: 
We appreciate your confirmation to us that in accordance with these forecasts you will ensure development of production from Australian coal mines sufficient to maintain shipments of this indicative order of magnitude. 
I ask: Do those quotations sound like a convenient let-out? Even with this agreement the  Deputy  Prime Minister has now been forced to settle for less. If we ask ourselves why, we find that the answer is because he fails to understand the rudiments of international negotiation and is prepared to trade off millions of dollars of coal export revenue for the sale of a few hundred tonnes of chilled beef. If I wanted to do so, I could again quote the words of  Mr Saburo  Tanabe the Managing Director of Nippon Steel, whom I have quoted earlier in this House. Upon the return of the  Deputy  Prime Minister from Japan,  Mr Tanabe  stated that he had given no undertakings to the  Deputy  Prime Minister that there would not be reductions in coal purchases. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister went on to say that he reassured the Japanese of our intentions as suppliers. Let me again quote  Mr Inayama  on this point. This quotation comes from the same letter. He said: 
We also appreciate your assurances of continuity of supplies and we look upon your country as the principal and reliable source of our requirements. 
I emphasise the words 'principal and reliable source of our requirements'. Does that sound like a note of equivocation? Of course it does not. We spent 3 years labouring the point to Japan and Japan understood and appreciated it. The Inayama Agreement was a vindication of the Labor Government's policy on price intervention and orderly development- and Japan recognised the legitimacy of this intervention. 
In respect of uranium,  Mr Anthony  said on Monday that there is no place for the Government in uranium development; yet he claimed that there was the question of security involved in Australia's resources, particularly uranium. In the 1950s the Menzies Government considered uranium to be a strategic resource and controlled all development and sales of it. The  Deputy  Prime Minister has now rejected this concept, even though during the life of the Labor Government he supported every initiative taken in this area- from the enrichment proposals to the joint venture in the Northern Territory. He now wants private enterprise to take over an industry in which, in every other country in the world, government has a major stake- a stake that is growing.  Mr Anthony's  backers among the uranium industry tried to pressure the Labor Government into signing long term contracts in 1973. They failed. Since then other factors have been taken into account, including the environmental considerations presently under scrutiny by  Mr Justice  Fox. 
In 1972, in the last 3 weeks of its term of office, the Liberal-Country Party Government agreed to long term uranium contracts at prices as low as $6.50 per lb. Today, on the Deputy Prime Minister's own admission, prices for spot sales are as high as $40 per lb. Now that the ploy of selling the reserves while the market was available in 1973 has failed, the new tune is sell it quickly before we are attacked for it- and the Deputy Prime Minister helps to create that spurious climate. 
The export controls give the Government all the power required to administer a sensible resources policy. The sensational and extraordinary comments the Deputy Prime Minister made last Monday night are not only inappropriate but also unnecessary inasmuch as the extractive industries have a firm understanding of the issues affecting resources policy. The Deputy Prime Minister's adoption of the Labor Government's export controls policy on all minerals recognises the extra influence the national Government is able to assert in respect of resources policy. The previous Liberal Government introduced export controls on an ad hoc basis, namely with a view to preserving what it considered to be Australia's inadequate reserves of iron ore, uranium, natural gas and mineral sands, because, basically, the controls at that time were a conservation mechanism. 
On the other hand, the Labor Government's policy of extending export controls to all minerals was to ensure not only that they were sensibly developed in the national interest but also that Australia achieved world parity prices on international markets. The spectacular results of this policy were seen in the four-fold increase in the price of coal exports between December 1973 and 1976 and a substantial increase in iron ore prices in January 1 974. Labor's policy was to match the Government intervention in the consumer countries, particularly the activities of MITI in Japan. It sought to stop once and for all the cut-throat competition between producers for a united Japanese market. The Japanese understood that policy as the Labor Government went out of its way constantly to reassure the Japanese that Australia would always be a willing seller of its resources to Japan and other trading nations as long as we achieved an equitable price and a guarantee of markets. 
The Deputy Prime Minister, in his speech to the Mining Industry Council, has now thrown this commercial relationship into total -jeopardy. This man does not understand the significance of what he says. He did not understand the impact of his statements on crude oil pricing during the 1974 election campaign and he does not understand today the potentially far greater significance of his statements in respect of our trading partners ' intentions. 
The Deputy Prime Minister can hardly be let out alone. I should imagine, nevertheless, that as the Minister for National Resources this episode has been at least a salutory experience for him. Maybe he will start to realise just how important this nation believes its relations with Japan and other countries to be to our future prosperity, and he should not play foolishly with that carefully built up relationship. 
-On 8 April 1975, exactly a year ago and on 9 April 1975 the Consolidated Press organisation on behalf of the  Bulletin  ran a series of advertisements on Sydney television about a wine flagon and cask guide that was to appear in the next issue of the  Bulletin  of 12 April that year. As a result of this advertisement the increase in the circulation of the  Bulletin  was of the order of 28 per cent. The advertisement led people to believe that in the edition of 12 April there would be a comprehensive wine flagon and cask guide. In fact the people who bought the 12 April edition of the  Bulletin  found that it contained only a guide to white wine and not to red wine and that the guide to red wine was to follow in the next edition. Many people complained, and finally on 10 May 1975 the management of the  Bulletin  offered a refund on the 12 April issue and agreed to forward a free copy of the 19 April issue, which contained the second part of the so-called complete guide, to any person who felt misled by advertising in respect of the 12 April issue. 
The matter ended up with the Trade Practices Commission for investigation under sections 53C and 79 of the Trade Practices Act, which sections deal with goods represented as having benefits they do not have. The Trade Practices Commission investigated this false advertising and found that amongst the evidence there was a letter from  Mr John  Singleton of the advertising agency for the  Bulletin  to his staff stating that there was no need to mention in the advertisements on television that only the first part of the wine guide was to be covered in the 12 April edition. 
I believe the Attorney-General's Department was consulted and that it gave an opinion that Consolidated Press had breached the Trade Practices Act. Further I believe that an opinion was sought from  Mr D.  G. McGregor, Q.C. and  Mr J.  G. Smythe, Q.C, who concurred that a prima facie case had been established. I believe the normal procedure that is followed before proceedings for prosecution are taken under this Act is for the Minister administering the Act, in this case the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard),  to advise the AttorneyGeneral to proceed with the prosecution. I am informed that on the last day- that was yesterday, 7 April- on which, under the provisions of the Act, proceedings could have been instituted against Consolidated Press the Minister administering the Act, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, despite opinions from the Attorney-General's Department,  Mr McGregor,  Q.C, and  Mr J.  C. Smythe, Q.C sent a communication to the Trade Practices Commission vetoing any move to prosecute Consolidated Press and the  Bulletin.  Apparently this decision would have been communicated to the AttorneyGeneral and therefore no action would have been taken. 
I ask the Minister 2 questions. Did the Commission recommend to the Minister that he consent to a prosecution? Did the Minister inform the Trade Practices Commission or the AttorneyGeneral 's Department yesterday afternoon, the last day available under the Act on which to institute prodeedings, that he was exercising his veto despite the advice tendered? If this is so, I think the Minister ought to explain his actions to the House. I may be misinformed, but the Minister should inform me of the true situation. I should like to make the point that constant charges have been made that the Minister has been somewhat more sympathetic than he should have been to companies or individuals which might have been prosecuted under this Act. 
A number of cases have been instanced in the Press where the Minister has failed to abide by the spirit and letter of the Trade Practices Act and where he has used his discretion not to proceed with a prosecution. It seems to me that by this procedure there has been a constant whittling away of the spirit of the Trade Practices Act. If on this occasion there is a clear case of a recommendation from the Trade Practices Commission or from the Attorney-General's Department, and if outside advice was taken and the Minister in fact did veto the prosecution of this case, I think he owes the House a quite definitive explanation. On face value, it would seem that this is another case of the Government failing to make companies and individuals accountable under the sections of the Act. The organisation involved is one sympathetic to the Government parties. Australian Consolidated Press, television Channel 9 in Sydney and the  Bulletin  are famously anti-Labor organisations. I do not make a charge, but I leave it for the Minister to explain whether some bias may have been executed in favour of these companies. I should like the Minister to respond tonight on this matter, if that is possible. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the honourable member for Blaxland be not further heard. 
-The foreign investment policies of the LiberalCountry Party Government announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  are vindication of the Labor Government's policies which were so much abused by the Liberal-National Country Parties when in Opposition. Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery and we in the Australian Labor Party can now point to these guidelines as a major legacy of the Labor Administration. 
The guidelines represent a major shift by the Government from its pre- 1972 attitudes where it considered that selling off the farm was the only way Australia could industrialise and develop its vast resources. Following the lead given by Labor in the past 3 years, the Liberal-National Country parties have now for the first time as part of their policy stipulated minimum specific percentages of Australian equity in development projects. This policy has already caused some rumblings in the board rooms of Martin Place and Collins Street and already a campaign to denigrate the Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony)  is under way. He is being accused of being the architect of the new policy. But the fact of the matter is that it was a Cabinet decision and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer are just as responsible for its formulation and implementation. Because of the discontent within industry, the question now is how long before the pressure on Cabinet forces a return in substance if not in form to the old  laissez-faire  days of pre- 1972? 
The major shift in policy as announced by the Treasurer is in the area of uranium mining and mineral exploration and production. Under the Labor Government's guidelines of 1975 the 50 per cent equity in all new mining projects was mandatory. This minimum level had to be reached or the project would not be given the goahead. However, under the guidelines of the Liberal-National Country parties the minimum equity requirement is discretionary. The requirement need be met at the discretion of the Minister for National Resources. The practical effect of this discretion is that Australian companies, notorious in the past for failing to risk money in large development projects, will have little trouble convincing the Minister that the equity target cannot be met. Without the mandatory requirement as to equity, foreign companies do not have to go out and 'sell' a project to Australian investors, but can be content with only a minor testing of the market. 
Obviously locating partners in a massive resource investment is a complex and wearying task as the Labor Government experienced with the Redcliffs petrochemical complex and the Hail Creek coal project. But without the mandatory Australian equity percentage provision who is to judge what efforts a foreign or Australian company has made to secure investment capital before it reports to the Minister on its lack of success? Obviously for the highly attractive investment projects there would be a persuasion for a foreign company to run dead in its efforts to bring in Australian partners. If the Minister then exercises his discretion in favour of the project going ahead without the requisite amount of local capital, he will be hard pressed to object to the next request for approval. The spirit, if not the letter, of the policy will be flouted. 
As I have mentioned, the Minister for National Resources has already been under attack in the Press because of this policy. The  Australian  newspaper devoted a whole front page story on this matter in its issue of Wednesday, 14 April 1976. The newspaper just editorialisedthese remarks were not attributable to anybody. It stated: 
Until the Government adopts a more flexible and open policy towards resources development,  Mr Anthony  will continue to attract criticism. So far the criticism of his leadership and ministerial performance has been kept within Government circles. 
It is the administration of the policy that is crucial to its effectiveness. The Government must understand that it cannot steal the letter of the Labor Party policy for its own political kudos and then get away with not administering the policy. The Opposition will expect the Minister for National Resources to make public the decisions he takes in respect of these equity requirements and the reasons for the decisions. 
In respect of uranium, the Government, like the Labor Government before it, has demanded a higher Australian equity than for other minerals. Because of its importance as an energy source in a world fast running out of cheap energy and because of its strategic and foreign policy implications the Labor Government stipulated that there should be 100 per cent Australian equity in all new projects. Without explanation the Liberal-National Country Party Government has reduced the equity requirement to 75 per cent Australian equity for all projects not already at the production stage. All projects other than the joint Atomic Energy CommissionPekoWallsend project will be affected by this policy. But the Government gives no reason for its change or for lowering the equity requirement. 
This modification is a ridiculous departure from the policy of Labor. Surely there can be no cogent argument why Australia should allow foreign companies and in some cases foreign governments, through such agencies as the Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi which is commonly referred to as ENI, to participate in the exploration and development of this strategic material. Australia already has the largest tonnage of uncommitted uranium in the western world and it is of the utmost importance that its development and sale be under the strictest supervision. This can be guaranteed only if Australians own it. The Labor Party's view is that as all title to uranium in the Northern Territory is vested in the Commonwealth under the terms of the Menzies 1952 Atomic Energy Act, then only a Commonwealth agency such as the Atomic Energy Commission should be allowed to explore for it in the Northern Territory and any new deposits would then have the 100 per cent Australian equity. Australian equity in the discoveries already made would be the subject of negotiation between the Australian Government and the company concerned. If the Government makes the distinction with uranium and requires 75 per cent local equity, on what basis does it make the distinction? The Labor Party opposes this distinction strongly and calls on the Government to adopt the 100 per cent equity principle that has operated for the past 3 years. 
The major flaw in the Liberal-Country Party's policy is that it provides no mechanism for raising large sums of capital to meet the Australian equity requirements. The Labor Government tried to remedy this problem by introducing a Bill to establish a national investment fund. It was rejected out of hand by the Liberal and Country parties. The Petroleum and Minerals Authority which had an investment budget of only $50m, and was therefore not in the big league of investors, was also painted by the Liberal-Country Party while in Opposition as some form of nationalisation monster. Nothing could have been further from the truth, as a reading of its objects would indicate. Before it was declared unconstitutional on a technicality it had already made some profitable and worthwhile investments to protect the national interest. 
So the Liberal-Country Party Government has the pious intent of increasing Australian equity in resource projects, but not the mechanism to do it. The Treasurer talked about the Australian Industry Development Corporation. He said: 
The Government believes that the Australian Industry Development Corporation has an important role to play in helping to mobilise funds required by Australian companies and in helping to bring together efficient Australian enterprises in order to foster Australian equity in local ventures of national importance. 
The AIDC, since it was established, has hardly been a great mobiliser of capital. How it is to perform this task the Treasurer has not indicated. Australia obviously needs a competent entrepreneurial body in the resources field. Other countries have such instrumentalities to supervise and encourage national private investment in major development projects. Australia is singularly lacking. The Liberal and Country parties as usual go against the tide. There is a great vacuum in this respect in Australia. The private enterprise answer- the Resources Bank- has proved itself a lemon and unable to marshal the large slabs of capital needed to establish Australian control of large resource projects. 
The other associated aspect of capital formation where the policy is not only vague but negligent is the question of domestic borrowing by foreign companies in Australia. Referring to foreign controlled companies, the Treasurer said: 
We expect such companies to give full consideration to the possibilities of raising additional capital requirements through equity issues in Australia as an alternative to borrowing. . . . 
He said that he did not need to lay down any rules to guarantee this. How naive is this view. If a foreign interest wants its investment in the paid-up capital of an Australian company to reflect a certain percentage, that percentage of foreign investment- I mean by that off-shore capital- should be reflected as near as possible in the total capital requirements of the project; otherwise all that Australia is getting from some types of foreign investment is management, not capital, and rarely any new technology that has not previously been used in Australia. 
If one looks at history in Australia one finds that major foreign investors with the preponderance of control of a company have raised large sums on the Australian capital and share market while the parent company's original capital contribution to the Australian subsidiary has been a huge percentage of a comparatively small level of original share capital compared with the capital funds required for the running and expansion of the project. The Fitzgerald Report of 1974, a conscientious and serious report that was shamefully attacked and discounted by the coalition parties, demonstrates that in respect to the example of Hamersley Holdings in Western Australia, and I quote directly: 
Of the remarkable increase of $552m in Hamersley 's capital expenditures in the 7 years ended December 1973, threequarters was financed by the retained cash flow plus the premium share issues to the Australian public. The remaining one-quarter was funded by additional borrowings. By far the greater part of the necessary finance was generated in Australia. While the Rio Tinto and Kaiser groups have not added to their original capital subscription of $45m, the value of the gross assets in their control has quintupled in 7 years while the ratio of term liabilities owing to creditors to the value of gross assets has been halved, falling from 66 per cent to 33 per cent. 
As technology in the extractive industries in Australia by and large has been developed by Australian companies and Australian ingenuityin some respects Australia leads the world- in many instances the only consequence of foreign investment has been a pile of headaches for the Government in dealing with such problems as inter-company pricing agreements, restrictive franchises and double taxation agreements. Foreign investment must be made to mean the investment of adequate levels of overseas capital for the operation and expansion of projects coupled with appreciable advantages in respect of foreign market access in the improvement in Australian technology. Without the full benefit of these aspects, foreigners are doing us no favours in bringing a small amount of money to Australia for share capital, then borrowing the major balance of development money in Australia and using Australian techniques long established to bring such projects to the production stage. This kind of help we can well do without. In the extractive industries where the returns are great and extend over a long period the contribution of foreign investors must be a genuine one. 
Another important implication of foreign investment where the Government's new policy is silent, is the question of permitting our customers to invest in resource projects which either supply or are associated with our own industries. For instance, Japanese investment in the coal industry permits the Japanese Ministry of International Trade and Industry effective access to the costing assessments and pricing policies of that industry. Could anyone believe, for instance, that the Government of Japan would allow, say, Theiss Holdings to buy a major share of Nippon Steel- apart from the fact that Theiss could not afford it and indeed would not want it- but the example stands. Japan would not tolerate an Australian coal producer having access to the market, cost and pricing information of a Japanese steel manufacturer. Yet previous Liberal-Country Party governments have allowed companies such as Mitsui into consortiums in Australia in industries that supply Japan. 
The present policy announced by the Treasurer does not deal with this problem- in my view perhaps the most crucial aspect of all in relation to foreign investment and participation in Australia. If the Government does not privately plan some administration of this aspect, I would be grateful if the Treasurer or the Minister for National Resources would let the Parliament know. My view on this aspect is not directed against Japan or any other country for any motive other than I have mentioned. I believe in the proprietary of certain investment prerogativesinvestments that suit the Australian interest taking into account the nature of the trade between Australia and the country of origin of the investment. For instance, considering the imbalance of trade with Japan in our favour, it would not worry me if the motor car companies of Japan completely dominated the vehicle market in Australia, at the expense of General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd and the Ford Motor Co. of Australia. If this meant that Australians held employment in an industry with rationalised efficiency, then acceptable franchise agreements would help Australian exports as efficiency made these products more export competitive. If multi-nationals are to dominate certain industries let us be selective about whose multi-nationals they are and where our economic interest hes. Foreign investment can militate in favour of reductions in trade imbalances, but our selectivity is crucial. Let us not show our commercial hand to the world while the world plays its hand close to the chest. It is time we grew up on this issue, and I hope the Government will take some cognisance of this view. 
-The Opposition supports both pieces of legislation. The first Bill- the Livestock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill 1976- flows from the passage of the Meat Export Charge Amendment Bill 1976, which lifted the 0.6c per lb charge for meat inspection and disease eradication imposed by the former Government and replaced this charge with a $1 a head slaughter levy for all cattle slaughtered after 1 July. The $1 a head slaughter levy will raise approximately the same amount in revenue as the 0.6c per lb charge did previously, although that applied only to exports. The $ 1 per head slaughter levy is to be carried by the whole of the industry, which does have the virtue of equity in it, whereas the previous charge applied only in respect of exports. 
The levy has been imposed to offset Commonwealth funding of the national endemic cattle disease eradication program. The program is primarily designed for the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. A complementary Bill- the Livestock Slaughter Levy Collection Amendment Bill 1976- seeks to establish a national cattle disease eradication trust account upon which this program will be funded. The future of Australia's beef and dairy export markets depends to a very large degree on the success of the brucellosis and tuberculosis campaign. 
The only criticism that the Opposition has of the legislation is that it does not apply the $1 slaughter levy until 1 July, although the 0.6c per lb charge was lifted on 1 March. The $2.5m in forgone revenue would not have been passed back to the producers; it would have remained with the exporters. It would have remained with them on the basis that there was no expectation that the general levy would be lifted and therefore the money would not have been refunded. It is a nice gift from the Government that is being made without the exporters even asking for it. The $1 a head levy should have been applied as from 1 March. However, the Opposition does not oppose the principle of the legislation. 
In respect of the Livestock Slaughter Levy Collection Amendment Bill 1976, the Opposition also agrees with this legislation. The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Livestock Slaughter Collection Act 1964-1974 to establish a national cattle disease eradication trust account into which the money raised by the $1 a head slaughter levy for disease eradication will be paid. The revenue from this levy will be used to augment a Commonwealth contribution towards the eradication of bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis in the Australian cattle herds. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  may authorise payments from the fund to the States for disease eradication or to the Commonwealth for the same purpose. The legislation is of a machinery nature to set up a suitable trust account, subject to normal audit procedures. The Opposition does not oppose this piece of legislation. 
I will not canvass the question of the beef industry or the manner in which these levies apply to it. They are matters which were covered in a debate earlier this year on the legislation to which I have referred. Both these bills are of a machinery nature. They flow from the lifting of the 1.6 per lb levy imposed upon export beef. To summarise, the Opposition supports this legislation, although it opposed the lifting of the lc per lb levy when other legislation was introduced a month ago. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What sum has been paid out (a) under the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Act and (b) in respect of bounty for butter and cheese under the Dairying Industry Act since the introduction of the bounties. 
What sum was paid out under these schemes in 1 974. 
-The purpose of these Bills is to extend the existing stabilisation scheme to cover the 1 976 season for apples and pears. The scheme, which has operated since 1971, was designed to protect the apple and pear industry against sineusiodal movements in incomes arising from export fluctuations. The Industries Assistance Commission recommends in its interim report the continuation of this scheme on a modified basis for the 1976 season. In its report it recommended a support price under the scheme for 1976 of $2 a box on apples on a maximum quantity of 2 million boxes, and in respect of pears a support price of 80c a box on a maximum quantity of 1 400 000 boxes, payments to be made on at risk sales to Europe in respect of apples and to Europe and North America in respect of pears. These Bills incorporate the recommendations. 
Like many horticultural industries, the apple and pear industry is facing export competition in the areas which have been its traditional markets. The competitive position of the industry in these markets has declined in recent years mainly because of increases in freight costs and the high labour inputs into Australian production. Because of the nature of the industry there is not the opportunity to capital intensify the industry to make it more efficient. Harvesting techniques are still carried out manually and it seems that the industry will be constantly suffering from labour cost increases. During the Labor Party's terms of office from 1972 to 1975 appreciable amounts of money were funded to the industry. Following the revaluation of the Australian dollar in 1972, emergency adjustment assistance was provided for the industry based on growers' average annual exports in the 2 calender years 1971 and 1972. Total payments to fruit growers on the post revaluation system was about $ 1.65m. Additional supplementary grants of $1,000 were made available to farmers experiencing extreme financial difficulties. Net assistance from Canberra under Labor in 1973 and 1974 was $2.73m and $ 1.98m respectively. In addition to stabilisation payments the Australian Government joined on a State for State basis with the Tasmanian, Western Australian and 
Queensland governments in providing special assistance to growers exporting at risk to the United Kingdom and other European markets in the 1974 season. This committed the Australian Government to a maximum of $2. 6m though the final cost was $2.1m which, on the matching grants basis with the States, totalled $4.2m. In 1975 the Labor Government joined with all State governments except New South Wales in providing joint additional assistance for the 1975 export season to all markets except North America. The assistance amounted to $ 1 .2m. 
The Industries Assistance Commission recommends in its final report on apples and pears, dated 16 January 1976 and released only last week, that this apple and pear stabilisation scheme be terminated after an interim 2-year period. It goes on to say: 
Contingent upon the termination of this scheme the Commission recommends that the adjustment assistance measures outlined in the separate report on fruit growing reconstruction apply to the apple and pear industry and in particular that area redevelopment authorities be established in the apple and pear growing regions of south-west Western Australia, southern Tasmania and the Stanthorpe region of Queensland and that the feasibility studies necessary to determine the nature and extent of these authorities be undertaken as expeditiously as possible. 
Like many horticultural industries, the apple and pear industry will continue to face declining export markets. Obviously there comes a point at which governments are forced to look at assistance in terms of rationalisation rather than price supports which will continue indefinately. The International Assistance Commission no doubt believes that within 2 years of the continued operation of this scheme that point will be reached. Of course the sad reality is that many growers and their families will suffer subsistence levels of income and be forced off their places before this rationalisation comes about. 
While the scheme may operate for another 2 years, depending on the Government's view of the LAC recommendations, stabilisation schemes like this scheme give support to an industry in general but do not assist to any great degree the smaller grower. On the contrary, a scheme like the current one which is production orientated gives the larger grower a larger proportion of the funds available and the smaller grower receives only a small amount of the funds available which, in many cases, just becomes a form of welfare assistance rather than viable support to take growers over the hump of any particular crisis. As Commonwealth social welfare benefits are not available to growers because of the work test, the stabilisation payments in many cases are just a substitute for this kind of benefit. I point out to those people who are listening to this debate that under the work test a person who registers for Commonwealth benefits must be prepared to take work that is offered. Obviously a farmer is unable to accept any work that is offered, therefore he does not qualify under the work test for benefits. Even with the operation of tree pull schemes the industry will probably decline further and the number of smaller growers leaving the industry may increase before the stabilisation scheme expires. It would be a great thing for these growers if there were a larger domestic market in Australia which could sustain a higher proportion of production. A larger domestic market would, of course, help most of the horticultural industries. 
Overall production has declined in respect of both apples and pears since the peak of 1970-71. In that year the quantity of apples produced was 442 700 tonnes. It has declined steadily through to the 1975-76 season when it reached 315 000 tonnes. In respect of pears, for the same years the production has declined from 184 000 tonnes to 142 000 tonnes. Unfortunately, while exports account for about only 25 per cent of Australian apple production, the States of Tasmania and Western Australia are hit much harder. In Tasmania the proportion of production going to export varies from 55 per cent to 65 per cent depending on the season, and in Western Australia it varies from 45 per cent to 60 per cent depending on the season. The Tasmanian Labor Government made an offer to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to extend additional cover other than the stabilisaton scheme on 340 000 boxes on a dollar for dollar basis with the Commonwealth. This would have brought its expenditure on this item up to what it spent last year. However, the Federal Government refused this offer and Tasmania is now going to extend the scheme on the basis of $2 a box to be paid entirely by the State Government of Tasmania on only 170 000 boxes. I would have thought that the Federal Minister would have been more receptive than he has been. 
In respect of the mechanics of this legislation, varietal stabilisation funds have been established in respect to each type of fruit, into which Government contributions are paid and from which payments to growers are made. In the circumstances where charges are imposed upon growers, this is authorised under the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Act 1971, and collection is made under the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Collection Act 1971-73. 
The purpose of this amending legislation is to limit the rate of export duty that growers may be required to pay in respect of the 1976 season in accordance with the limits on stabilisation payments proposed for this season under the extended stabilisation scheme. Naturally export duties would be limited only in respect of those export markets covered by the scheme. The Opposition does not oppose the legislation but calls upon the Government to consider sympathetically the plight of small growers in their endeavours to extricate themselves from a declining market situation, particularly in Tasmania and Western Australia, and not to string out their misery with the extension of this scheme when they ought to be moving rapidly into the stabilisation process. 
-I address a question to the Minister for National Resources. Is it a fact as reported that the New South Wales soft coking coal producers received an increase of only 20c per tonne in their recent negotiations with Japanese importers? Has the Minister approved these contracts and if so why did he approve them? In view of the massive increase in export earnings resulting from Government intervention in export negotiations during the 3 years of Labor administration, is it not imperative at a time when the national exchequer needs every penny it can get that the policy of supervision of contract negotiations be continued? Will the Minister tell the Parliament and the mining industry what role he and his Department intend to play in the future sale of Australian resources overseas? 
-This is just more evidence of how the coalition connived, deceived and cheated its way into power. We found on examination of the letters that the authority was issued by the Premier of Queensland on 14 November, 3 days after the general election campaign had begun. This was a conscious breaking of the undertaking given by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the prominent members of the Government to the Governor-General that they would abide by the guidelines for the caretaker Government and that they would not be involved in muck-raking. But we find that they could not be trusted. Let me quote from the letter from  Mr Todd  to the Prime Minister. It states: 

 Mr Fancher stated that you 
That is  Mr Fraser-  were working through  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  because you had a gentleman s agreement with the Governor-General,  Sir John  Kerr, not to pursue the Whitlam situation until after the general election on December 1 3. 
What do we find? We find that honourable members opposite broke the spirit of the undertaking that they gave to the Governor-General. Not only did they not abide by the decision when the House did not have confidence in them, but they also did not have the decency to stay within the Governor-General's guidelines and not muck-rake. So what did they do? They abided by the letter of the law. They did not have any Government instrumentalities or department out doing their dirty work. They had the Premier of Queensland doing it by way of an agreement with the Leader of the Country Party and the 
Leader of the Liberal Party had arranged with him. The Premier of Queensland issued the letter on 14 November to this character Todd asking him to go and look and to investigate the socalled bribery. Not only is the question of the propriety of the activities of the Premier of Queensland brought into - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! No point of order is involved in the matter raised by the honourable member for Deakin. 
-The point is that the Premier of Queensland was a party to the breaking of the undertaking given by the present Prime Minister and the Leader of the National Country Party to the Governor-General. This meant they could not even keep the word they had given. Amongst the material which has been released is a telegram from  Mr Todd  addressed to  Mr Fancher  which states: 
Congratulations on  Mr Fraser's  victory. When will you be prepared to proceed with the financing? 
Do honourable members think that these people were not involved in some political machinations? Another letter dated 14 January from the Agent-General of Queensland in London addressed to  Mr Todd  of the Whitney Todd bank states: 
When it comes to great guys I can feel I can number you among my acquaintances. 
This is the sort of relationship that the AgentGeneral of the Queensland Government had with an American banker involved in political muck-raking during the election campaign. The American banker goes on to say in another letter dated 16 February which is addressed to the same Agent-General of Queensland in London: 
I expect my billing to be paid in full by 1 March 1976. 
Not only are these people opposite cheats but they are also welshers. They will not even pay for the rotten services that were undertaken upon their behalf. No matter where one looks into the behaviour of the members of the then Opposition last year, one finds that they used every conceivable instrument at their disposal to cheat their way into power. Honourable members should look at the behaviour of the present Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  when he was the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. It would be nice to have a royal commission to find out who financed him in his trips and who financed the hotel bills and air travel expenses of  Mr Andrew 
Hay who was running all over Europe. Who financed them? We will find that three corporation in Australia put the money into the can which was, of course, carried by the present Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  He was the bag man in the operation to try to discredit the then Prime Minister and senior Ministers of the Whitlam Government, men who had their names besmirched, all because of cheap politicking. 
The Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  now has to expose his whole party by saying that there was not any evidence of any corruption at all. We find that the movements of  Mr Khemlani,  who appeared fortuitously during the election campaign and in the time leading up to the dismissal of the Government on 11 November, were financed from the slush funds by the present Treasurer,  Mr Lynch. Mr Licardy,  a solicitor in Sydney who was representing Khemlani, finally had his bills paid, after Khemlani skipped the country, again by  Mr Lynch  and probably carried by  Mr Hay.  This is the behaviour of this despicable party opposite which cheated its way into power. 
The charge is a substantial one. The charge we lay is that the present Prime Minister of Australia broke an indertaking that he had given to the Governor-General during the time that the Liberal-Country Party was the caretaker Government. These people who did not have a majority in the House of Representatives, these people who lost the previous election and were masquerading as the Government of Australia could not even abide by the agreement they had given to the Governor-General even though they were suggesting that the Governor-General was acting with completely propriety. 
It was on 14 November. You are quite wrong. You do not even know. The letter of 14 November 1975 to  Mr Richard  Todd from the Premier of Queensland states: 
I hereby appoint you as my financial adviser concerning loan raising efforts by the Australian Government . . . 
That was 3 days after the campaign started. It just means that the Government will do anything for political power. You will cheat, you will lie, you will deceive, you will break agreements, you will do anything. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Blaxland will withdraw that remark. 
I say it in a corporate sense against the Government. I do not say it against any individual in the Government but against the Government in general, against the Party. It did these things. 
-It would be accurate. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I say quite clearly against the former Opposition, the caretaker Government, that in the corporate sense it cheated and lied and deceived its way into power. 
I will withdraw it,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  so that I do not take up the time of the debate. But I can assure you that my feelings stand. The point is that members of the then Opposition were prepared to use any instrument at their disposal to try to discredit the Whitlam Government and its Ministers. The matter is still being litigated in the courts in New South Wales, obviously dragged on with money financed from the original slush fund which was managed by the present Treasurer. I had occasion during the proceedings to illustrate how shoddy the whole thing was. My Lynch accosted me in Kings Hall at about midnight one night during the debate to say that he knew more of what was going on in the Treasury than the then Treasurer; that the original leaks about the loans affair came to him from the Treasury; that the Opposition used former confidences it had with public servants in departments of the Commonwealth while it was in government to threaten those people because when it became the Government it wanted to keep all the information coming in. 
When the then Opposition finally got into a situation where it could not hide behind parliamentary privilege, when the House of Representatives had risen for the election campaign, when the caretaker Government had given an undertaking to the Governor-General that it would not continue muckraking in the disgraceful way that it had been doing, what did it then do? The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  would have given a call to the Queensland Premier and it would have been all sorted out 3 days later. Fraser would have given him a call, and the next thing you know he has this character running around over there in London trying to muckrake, trying to get around the letter of the undertaking given to the Governor-General. I believe that that is a serious charge and that the Prime Minister ought to answer it. The Prime Minister ought to be big enough to come into the House and disclose his dealings with the Queensland Premier, disclose what was a specific undertaking given to the Governor-General. 
That just illustrates the lengths to which the then Opposition, the present Government, the establishment of Australia, would go to get into power, to rob the legitimate government of power. Even in this Parliament it is obvious that it is not an elated government. I have never seen a drearier looking government in my life. When Labor was elected in 1972 we were happy about our election, but this crowd look as if they have stolen the Crown jewels. They know that they have done the wrong thing, that they have cheated their way into power. I have not seen the  Deputy  Prime Minister looking pallid until tonight. He has not said a word since he took on his ministerial portfolio. The great lions of the Opposition a few months ago are now all lying doggo. Why? It is because they cheated themselves into power, and now the Australian people are waking up to them. They have just elected a Labor Government in New South Wales, the largest State in Australia. This crowd is now lying doggo, but gradually their dirty behaviour comes out. Gradually they are being exposed. The dirty work of last year is being exposed. I would like to find out through a royal commission where  Mr Lynch  got the money from and which Australian enterprises contributed. I know which ones they were, but I want it to go on the record which corporations contributed. Who paid Andrew Hay's hotel bills all through Europe? Who paid for the flights backwards and forwards to London chasing up the bankers? Who paid Khemlani? Khemlani is absolutely broke, obviously. Who paid his fares to Australia all the time? Who picked up Licardy's bills- the Liberal Party. Now its members are afraid. Finally they are exposed by an honest man, their own Attorney-General. They probably will hold his honesty against him because he is not a muckraker like the rest of them. Where is the Prime Minister? He has scurried out of the chamber. Honourable members opposite bring on this matter when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  is out of the chamber. They knew that the Leader of the Opposition was not in the House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest that the House come to order; otherwise the honourable member for Blaxland might not be looking at anybody on either side of the House. I suggest also that on this occasion the debate and the House are not being assisted by either interjections or encouragement from both sides when one honourable member is speaking. I suggest that the House spend the remaining minutes of the debate in order. 
The fact is that the debate was brought on in the absence of the Leader of the Opposition, and the Government knew that he would not be here tonight. In the absence of the Prime Minister, who is not here to face the charges, let the  Deputy  Prime Minister say whether he was present when  Mr Fancher  called him from overseas. Let the  Deputy  Prime Minister say whether he knew about the details of his dealings with the Queensland Premier. He can make a statement. We will give him leave to make a statement, to tell us of his dealings with the Queensland Premier and to deny that he phoned the Queensland Premier. Let him tell the House of Representatives. Let him stand up and tell the truth as a Minister and say that he had no dealings or that the Prime Minister had no dealings. Of course, they cannot do it and they will not do it. 
Honourable members opposite are gradually being found out for the type of people they are. They are not interested in parliamentary government, Cabinet government or democracy. All they are interested in is power- nothing but pure political power. That is why they have run so doggo in the House of Representatives since being elected to office. They are not the jeering brigade they were last September and October on the scent of power. They know that, if they had pressed things too far, they were on the edge of civil strife. It was only because the decent people in the Labor Party held the thing back that the country survived. Honourable members opposite were prepared to see family against family. They were prepared to see the social fabric of this country ripped in half because they would not wait 1 8 months for an election. That is the real issue; they would not wait 1 8 months for an election. All the precedents they have established- the precedent in the Senate, the precedent involving the Governor-General, and so on- will rebound on them. History has a way of repeating itself and they will be found out for the way in which they came to power. A specific charge has been laid against honourable members opposite tonight by their own AttorneyGeneral. Let the Prime Minister come here, be a man, stand up and say whether he did flout the terms of the agreement with the GovernorGeneral, whether he did deal with the Premier of Queensland and what his relationship is with  Mr Fancher.  Let him for the first time in his life give an honest statement to the Australian people, instead of trying to deceive them for his own shabby political purposes. 

 Mr ANTHONY (Richmond-Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I have been misrepresented - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Wills will resume his seat. 
Yes, that is our charge. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I raise a point of order. It is 14 November. 
You gave the damn thing to us. 

 Mr KEATING (Blaxland) -On the same point,  Mr Deputy Speaker  - 
I claim to have been misrepresented. A letter was tabled by the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  in the Parliament tonight. I hold it up for you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and for anybody else to see. It is headed 'Premier's Department, Brisbane, Q.4000. 14th November, 1975'. It is addressed to Richard Bradburn Todd. 
That is 3 days after the former Government was dismissed. The letter reads: 
I hereby appoint you as my financial adviser concerning loan raising efforts by the Australian Government that was dismissed on 1 11th November, 197S. 
The authority conferred on you by this appointment may be terminated at any time by written notice under my hand. 
In acting as my financial adviser you are requested to cooperate with  Mr W.  A. R. Rae, Agent-General for Queensland. 
I make the charge. The Government ought to answer it. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
How many aircraft movements took place at Bankstown Airport (a) in each of the 10 years to 31 December 197S and (b) in each of the first three months of the years 1970- 1976 inclusive? 
What proportion of these movements were attributable to (a) trainee pilot training, (b) charter work, (c) aircraft servicing and maintenance and (d) private flying? 
-After that scintillating defence of the Government's economic package, perhaps we can look at what is really behind it. I think it would be fair to say that the only description of what the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  have done to this country is to say that they have introduced a cynical grab-bag of new policies that are inspired more by ideology than by common sense. The Prime Minister and the Treasurer have decided to bite the economic bullet but, after the reaction that they have had to their actions, they are not sure whether what they have done will backfire and blow off their heads. Certainly they would have every reason to be worried men. 
Basically the Treasurer's statement was made because of the Prime Minister's own slavish commitment to the concept of small government. Reductions in the size of the public sector, tax indexation and the Medibank changes are all evidence of what one honourable member described as the Prime Minister's pre-copernican preoccupations. The son of establishment figures who drafted the Australian Constitution around the turn of the century have been reincarnated in the present Prime Minister. He wants to reduce the role of the Commonwealth Parliament and the public sector in Australia. Not only is he committing himself to this course, but also he is doing it on the disgraceful premise of a package that is designed to soften up the unions for a wage pause- in fact, a cut in real wages. In other words he has accepted the line that the Federal Treasury has been promoting for the last three or four years- the line that the Australian Labor Party rejected in 1974- that a pool of unemployment is the only way in which one will achieve anything in respect of a reduction in wages. He never says to business that there ought to be increases in productivity. No. He says that there can be an investment recovery only when there is a cut in real wages. 
The people whom the Liberal Party of Australia and the National Country Party of Australia humiliated throughout the last 2 years and throughout the election campaign by calling them dole bludgers are now suffering from a policy of planned unemployment. How hypocritical and how squalid can those Parties and this Government be to embark upon such a policy. But, bad enough as it is that the Government is hypocritical, the Treasurer's statement also reveals the duplicity with which the Government always operates. In this respect he has told only half the story. The statement which he delivered the other night identifies only about $ 1,600m of the $2,600m which will be cut from expenditure in the forward estimates of the Budget. So another $ 1,600m of public expenditure which affects people vitally is still unidentified. We heard that the Treasury advice to the Government was that by the time the next Budget was introduced an extra $700m to $ 1,000m would be cut to achieve the Budget deficit in 1977-78 of between $2,200m and $2,500m. Again, where those cuts are to be made is not identified. Not only have we seen the dastardly deeds which have been identified in relation to the next Budget, but also we have  yet  to be told details of another $2,000m worth of good news in relation to expenditure cuts. The Government, of course, has failed to identify those. 
The so-called investment led recovery- the rubbish we heard last year and the rubbish we heard constantly during the election campaignnow, apparently in the Government's view, has failed. The investment allowance, which the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  referred to as a naked subsidy, which it is, has not been taken up by those sections of business which should be using it. It is not working, and the reason it is not working is that there is no demand in the Australian community to take from production. No businessman, particularly those with moderate size or small businesses in which most people in Australia are employed, are prepared to invest in productive plant when they know that there is no demand for products. While they have only 50 per cent or 60 per cent utilisation of their plant, they would be absolutely stupid to invest in new plant, even if the Government holds out the carrot to them. So that policy has failed. 
Now we are witnessing a great switch in strategy. The Government has been in office for only 6 months. It has already spoken about the need for consumer recovery, now that the investment recovery concept has failed. In Perth just a couple of weeks ago the Prime Minister said: 'Buy, buy, buy; spend, spend, spend'. He could have paraphrased that by saying 'Save my skin', because the whole future of his Government is wrapped up in the success of the next Budget. In other words, the policies he sets in train this year, 1976, will decide his electoral fortunes at the end of this Parliament. He knows that the concept of the Labor Party's Budget last year was correct, and he is now talking only of consumer recovery. 
So I think the Prime Minister's TreasurerTreasury approach is this: Reduce public sector outlays to allow the national slack to be taken up by free enterprise- this has to be done in a climate of reduced inflation which has to be achieved by a drop in real wages- and then there will be a consumer recovery which will lead to continuing demand and finally regenerate employment. That is the magic scenario. All that is to be done without any specific government intervention. Enterprise is to be left to the pressures of the market place, and the people in the market place are to come up with the goods; all the Government has got to do is set the scene and the whole show will take off. But when have we ever seen an increase in consumer confidence when there has been unemployment? 
I had the Parliamentary Library take out a table for me which may interest honourable members and which I will show to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  who is at the table. It illustrates very plainly that savings bank deposits increased dramatically in the 2 years of unemployment. At the moment savings bank deposits stand somewhere at about $ 1 3,500m, with unemployment at about 270 000 on a seasonally adjusted basis. So the Government has based its package on the premise that consumer confidence will recover, but when has there ever been consumer confidence when at the same time there has been unemployment? I say that there has not been, and that will be the rock upon which the whole concept will perish. In 1974 there was a 26 per cent movement in wages. That happened at a time of continuing unemployment; it did not slow down the movement of wages. Why should the Treasury be right on this occasion in believing that because there will be planned unemployment there will be a slowing down in wages- in fact, a cut in real wages? That is the second reason why I believe that this policy will fail. 
The whole rationale is cynical because it relies upon a cut in real wages, and it is defective because it believes there will be consumer spending at a time of unemployment. The total package, so-called, is then disguised by all the other measures which have been introduced, and I shall deal with those. I refer to such things as the cancellation of the rebate for dependants and its replacement with a family allowance or increased child endowment payments; the disbanding of Medibank and the forced return of people to the private health insurance funds, with a slug to taxpayers to pay for it; and income tax indexation as a trade-off to the Medibank tax or the Medibank levy- call it what you will, because it is one and the same thing. As I said earlier, these matters are not a product of the Treasury's pre-occupation with a wage cut; they are the product of the Prime Minister's own warped mentality in relation to small government. 
Let us analyse some of these measures. Not every aspect of the Government's proposals is bad, but the motivation is bad. Let us look at the dependants' rebate and the family allowance in terms of dollars and cents. Why did the Government decide to take away the rebate for dependent children and turn it into a family allowance or an increase in the child endowment? The reason is that it refused to index the rebate for dependants. So what it has done is to push a certain amount of money across to mothers. The Government will save about $l,025m with the elimination of the rebate for dependants, and the cost of the new child endowment payments is the same amount, $ 1,025m. In other words, there is no cost to the Government. But the Government has not introduced this measure because of any welfare motive. The 2 Government parties have never been interested in welfare. Throughout the 1950s and the 1960s they kept pensioners on the breadline with increases of only 50c and $1. The reason for that was that when they wanted to introduce a stimulus in consumer demand they pushed out a bit of money by means of an increase of 50c or $1 in pensions. The Labor Party said during that period that what it would do was introduce pensions that were indexedour motivation was social welfare- so that they always kept their value. But, of course, the Government is not indexing the child endowment payments. It refused to index the rebates for dependents, and we will not see it index the new child endowment payments. 
What we have seen is the introduction of a concept which the Government believes will lead to mothers, who are the recipients of the endowment payments, spending their money rather than leaving it on deposit. Again that is another assumption which may not and probably will not pay off. There is no reason to believe that the money will necessarily be spent, although it is true to say that the breadwinner of the family will receive a reduced pay packet because the dependant's allowance which was made available to him each week under the rebate system introduced in the last Labor Budget has been taken away. Therefore his pay packet will be reduced. In the light of that the Government believes that the money which is being given to the mothers will be spent. It may well be spent to make up for the leeway in dad's pay packet, but it may stay on deposit. Child endowment payments are paid into the banks, and I think it is true to say that many mothers will leave the money there as a nest egg, call it what you will. All one can say is that it is a cynical exercise in sexism to use women as an investment stimulus for the Government's own shabby economic package. At any time in the future that the Government may want to increase child endowment payments it can add to consumer stimulus by doing so. 
I turn now to Medibank. The Prime Minister has again broken his promise in regard to Medibank. Since the beginning of this Parliament we have seen promise upon promisespecific promises- broken by this Government. Only the other night an Australian Broadcasting Commission program enlightened us by telling us that the Prime Minister regards promises as being only in the 'immediate term'. Whatever the phrase 'immediate term' means, I do not know. So we can take it that any promise he makes during an election campaign will last only a day, a week, a month- who knows?- but certainly only in the 'immediate term'. That statement is very true in respect of Medibank. He said unequivocally that the Government would maintain Medibank. He has failed to do that and he has imposed a 2.5 per cent tax on it. He calls it a levy, but in fact it is a tax and nothing else but a tax. To add insult to injury he has done so at the express wish of the private health funds in Australia. Not only is he again pandering to his own views on small government but also he is pandering to the private health funds, which helped to put him in power, and giving them the pay-off. The pay-off is that the Committee set up to investigate Medibank arrangements was told that it had to come up with a scheme which forced 50 per cent of people over to the funds. The  Deputy Speaker  may laugh, but the scheme was outlined a few moments ago by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  the former Treasurer. 
Under the new arrangements the maximum Medibank cover available is $300 with an extra $135 available for privately insured people wanting intermediate care. It adds up to $435 for the total package if one stays in Medibank. But anyone who chooses to go to the private funds will be able to get the same package for both medical care and hospital care in private and intermediate wards for $350. So there is a $85 disincentive for anybody above a certain income to stay in Medibank. Of course, this is the Government's scheme. It was not actuarily worked out. The Government set the conclusion and worked back. The conclusion was that half the people had to leave Medibank so the Government devised a scheme under which a certain number of people would be forced out. Even the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  had the temerity to say the other day that the Government gave no commitment that there would not be any cost increases in the Medibank package. So if it just happended that the Medibank package did finally become competitive with the private funds the Government would increase the levy to make sure that the scheme worked as it intends it should, that is, with a 50 per cent drop out rate. That is what that statement means. This Government, of course, is not believable and cannot be trusted. 
I now refer to tax indexation which was a trade-off from Medibank and, again, another product of the mental block of the Prime Minister in respect of big government. But what the Prime Minister proposes is not tax indexation; it is not a tax cut as such. People believe that he is talking about a tax cut. But it is only a tax cut if wages are not moving up in the 12 months in which tax indexation operates. Tax indexation is designed to hold the rate of tax by indexing the brackets. In other words the brackets expand with inflation so that the same rate of tax applies. This is given as a palliative, a sort of sugar coating to the Medibank pill which, of course, is an enormous tax slug to most people in the community. 
A Government document released, or leaked, a couple of days ago indicates that 57 per cent of taxpayers will be worse off as a result of the 3 changes announced by the Treasurer, that is child endowment, Medibank and tax indexation. Fifty-seven per cent are worse off! Not only are most people in the community worse off in respect of their arrangements with the Commonwealth but also the States will be far worse off under this package. Specific purpose grants will go by the board. Most of the States will be forced to resort to indirect taxation. Not only will the States be forced to do this but also the Federal Government will be forced to resort to indirect taxation in the next Budget. Of course, if this does happen the result will be another attack on real wages because if tax indexation is introduced to account for inflation and indirect taxes are imposed this, of course, will eat away at real wages. 
Again, local government will be another area vitally affected by the nature of the cuts. Of course, we are told that the Government's policy is designed to promote recovery. But ultimately this policy must hinder recovery. Just take the Medibank item alone. The $400m that will be paid by taxpayers in a full year towards Medibank in the net sense will be, of course, an inhibitor to consumer demand. It will be money taken away from taxpayers which they would otherwise spend; money which will go to the Government coffers. So the result will be a disaster for this nation. Not only is the package deflationary, it will also create confusion with the buying public and with investing enterprise. It must damage consumer confidence. 
The package is designed deliberately to create unemployment. Not only that, but also it robs people of essential Government services which they will now not have made available to them. It will burden the States with costs and an absence of revenue which must be made up by resort to other indirect taxes. The total package relies upon a cut in real wages. Not only that, but the proposals for Medibank, child endowment and others form a policy for the redistribution of wealth which in itself is not an economic policy. These items are only put in the policy to disguise the general intent of the Government's program, which is, as I said earlier, to make sure that there is a reduction in real wages. On that basis there is supposed to be some let up in inflation. Therefore everything in the garden is to be rosy, people will spend again and Australia will get out of its present economic mess. That will not happen. The middle class has been slugged to death by a party which basically it supported. The working class can now see how untrustworthy the Prime Minister and his colleagues are in respect of specific undertakings they have given. In short, the whole policy is a dastardly one. It is dishonest. It is a major breach of faith with the Australian electorate. I believe it sets the pace for this Parliament in respect of the economy of this country. Ultimately it will show the Prime Minister that his policy will fail. I believe that the volatility of Australian politics is such that the Government and the Prime Minister will be flat out to be returned to office at the next election. 
I thought it ill behoved the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  to cast reflections upon his predecessor in his role in establishing the floor price support scheme last year. I also thought it ill behoved him to say that the Labor Government followed the initiatives of the former Liberal-Country Party Government. What initiatives? It never had any initiatives. We established the floor price scheme exclusively and the Government now is trying to cash in on what we did. However, there will be no cashing in while the Australian electorate remembers that this Government did nothing to stabilise this major export industry. The floor price plan, so called, was a product of the Whitlam Labor Government, and certainly nothing in the legislation controlling it had anything to do with legislation introduced earlier by the former Liberal-Country Party Government. If one wants to continue to refer to the debate on the 250c price plan last year, and it is competent for any Government to consider it when the scheme comes up for renewal, I remind the honourable member for Eden-Monaro that his own Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  was not so many months ago fearing the day when the market price would drop below 250c. He would have been run over by the Treasury and there was no way that the Government would have supported the price of 250c. That was his great fear, that the market would slip below 250c. 
Do not tell us that we did our best. We set up the plan. The Government should come out and tell us what it intends to do next year and what price it will support instead of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  sitting nitpicking at the table. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest that the Minister leave his remarks until such stage as he may be speaking on the Bill. 
The Opposition, the former Labor Government, established the legislation and set the price at 250c on 2 occasions. Now it is up to this Government to say where it stands but to date we have heard nothing except that it will do it at the end of the season. Let the Government give the industry some indication. 
The Opposition supports the legislation the subject of this cognate debate. The purpose of the Wool Industry Amendment Bill is to amend the Wool Industry Act 1972-74 to extend the wool floor price schemes to include the 1976-77 season and provide accounting machinery during the current season and the 1976-77 season. With minor exceptions the legislation is the same as the legislation proposed by the former Labor Government. The amendments to the legislation also provide for the inclusion of any profit or loss arising from the trading or manufacture of woollen products in the Wool Corporation's trading results. When the powers of the Corporation were expanded by the 1974 amendments to the Act no provision was made for accounting procedures to cover such trading. 
The Bill will also amend the principal Act so that the Corporation is obliged to consult with and have regard to the views of trade union and employer organisations before taking action likely to affect conditions of employment or the demand for labour in the wool industry. This provision again was to have been provided for in Labor legislation. The present Government when in Opposition requested this amendment in November 1974. The then Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt,  said on that occasion: 
There is not a great deal of difference of viewpoint here between the Government and the Opposition . . . and ... I am quite prepared to review both of these provisions . . . in the new year. 
The present legislation with its amendments will provide that the results of the floor price scheme are to be accounted for in a number of periods. They are: Firstly, from 2 September 1974, when the floor price arrangement commenced, to 30 June 1975; secondly, the period July 1975 to June 1976; thirdly, the subsequent period July 1976 to June 1977; and fourthly, and further periods as necessary until wool purchased under the reserve price arrangements during the 3 seasons has been disposed of. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  points out in the second reading speech that the amendments provide only for continuing accounting procedures and that details of the Government's policy on the floor price arrangements for 1976-77, including the level of the floor price, will be announced after the end of the 1976-77 season. Need I say that I hope the Government will be as generous and understanding to the industry at that time as was the previous Labor Government. Of course the major problem for the Minister for Primary Industry will be beating the Treasury off particularly as it now has the moral backing of the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  with his obsessive pre-occupation with 'small government' and holding down government expenditure. It was common knowledge earlier this year that the Minister was worried lest the market price for 21 micron wool slipped by any significant degree below the floor price.  His  concern stemmed from the realisation that the Prime Minister and the Treasury would have- to use a colloquial expression- 'put the cleaners through him' when he asked for a supporting commitment to allow the Corporation to hold the price. Fortunately for the industry this did not arise and the Country Party's delivery capability within the Government did not have to be tested. 
The former Labor Government's legislation of 1974 authorising government loans of up to $3 50m for the 1974-75 season was a milestone in the history of the wool industry providing for the first time legislation to stabilise the price to growers for Australian wool. It is pleasing in the extreme to know that the scheme has been successful inasmuch as the Corporation is able to repay loans that were provided to stabilise the industry. The Government should now make its long-term plans for the industry clear. It is obvious that costs are eating away at the returns to growers and some increase in the minimum price will be necessary to maintain their real income. The former Opposition ranted and raved when the former Government considered its plans for the 1975-76 season, suggesting with some validity that any malaise in resolution on the part of the then Government would damage confidence in the operation of the scheme. The same argument is now just as valid. The Labor Party rose to the occasion and clearly came out supporting the 250c price. Let the Government put its cards on the table and have done with the pennypinching frugal approach of the Prime Minister and the Treasury. A price of 250c is now only subsistence level for the industry. The Government should indicate to what degree it is pre-' pared to support a reserve price increase in the scheme. 
I reiterate that point to the House. Last year there was a debate as to whether a price of 250c was applicable. If the then Opposition had not gone out of its way to make some capital out of the debate there would not have been any scaremongering of the industry at all. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro referred to an address by his predecessor to people in front of Parliament House. He had argued consistently in the Party Caucus for 250c and was successful by an overwhelming majority, but when he met the wool growers out on the steps of Parliament House they booed him for his efforts. They might just well remember that he was instrumental in persuading the Government of the day that price ought to be implemented. 
In respect of the Wool Tax Amendment Bills (Nos 1 to 5) 1976, these Bills amend the Wool Tax Acts 1964-1975 to extend for another year the 5 per cent levy on the sale value of shorn wool which is collected to cover the operations of the wool floor price scheme. The levy was introduced by the former Labor Government legislation of 1974 when it established the minimum reserve price scheme. The Opposition supports this amending legislation. As the Government has pledged support for the 1 976-77 season at 250c per kilogram for 2 1 micron wool, it feels a 5 per cent levy is still appropriate. The money contributed by growers to the levy can be used by the Corporation for purchasing wool in its floor price operations or for advances to growers in respect of wool that has been withheld from sale. 
The 5 Bills are a consequence of constitutional requirements that laws imposing taxes should deal with one subject of taxation only. Again, like the Wool Industry Amendment Bill, these Bills are of a machinery nature to extend the total operation of the wool reserve price scheme for another season. Let us hope the Government will abide by the spirit of its apparent commitment in support of the scheme and not falter as it has with so many promises made by the present Prime Minister. As the Prime Minister outlined last week on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  Monday Conference,  his promises are promises only for the 'immediate future '. The question is. Who is to interpret the word 'immediate1? Again, the Opposition supports the legislation. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.1S p.m. 
-The purpose of the Dairy Adjustment Amendment Bill is to amend the Labor Government's Dairy Adjustment Act of 1974 to appropriate a further $3.5m for the purposes of the dairy adjustment program to extend assistance to dairy farmers in difficult economic circumstances. The Opposition does not oppose the legislation. Perhaps the best description of the Bill is in the last paragraph of the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  in which he said: 
The range of measures now proposed will certainly assist the industry to contract production to a level that should ensure more adequate incomes to efficient farmers. 
He also said: 
The States have joined with the Commonwealth in accepting responsibility for providing financial relief to help farmers weather this crisis or facilitate their exit from dairying where this seems to be the more prudent course. 
In fact, the Minister's statement is rather glib. What will happen, of course, is that many more dairy farmers will be forced out of the industry. In the 10 years to 1974 the number of dairy farms in Australia declined from 62 000 to 29 000, and now the industry is headed for an even greater fall with suggestions that a further 10 000 farmers will be forced out of dairying. 
The current crisis in the dairy industry is yet another manifestation of the effect of sinusoidal fluctuations in the world supply and price of manufactured milk products. In the last 12 months the world price of skim milk powder has plummeted to US$350 a tonne, and this situation was aggravated by the fact that Canada decided to abandon the US$520 a tonne 4-nation floor price agreement. Last week, the Minister had the audacity to suggest in a Press release that the problems of the rural industry in general and the dairy industry in particular had been aggravated by a lack of government assistance to rural industries in the 3 years of Labor government. He then went on to say, in a display of naked opportunism, that this so-called lack of assistance, plus lack of forward planning under Labor, meant that the dairy industry is facing a problem which should concern all Australians, not only the ones living in country areas. How cynical and irresponsible can this Government be? How cynical and irresponsible can this Minister be? He well knows that the Labor Government was concerned about the state of the dairy industry and commissioned an Industries Assistance Commission inquiry into it. The Commission's report was published on 23 October 1975. Coupled with this, the former Labor Government commissioned the IAC to report on the general question of rural reconstruction, and the report on that subject was tabled on 13 January 1976. 
Even more specifically, the Minister now seeks to amend the Labor Government's Dairy Adjustment Act of 1974, which it introduced after critcism from the National Country Party and the Liberal Party concerning the removal of the dairy bounty, and yet he still has the hide to say that the Labor Government was not interested in adjustment of the dairy industry or its reconstruction. This should be contrasted with the former Liberal-Country Party Government's obsession with bounties and, in particular, the dairy bounty which was still operative until the Labor Government phased it out over 2 years from July 1973 to June 1975. The former Liberal-Country Party Government had a puny marginal dairy farm reconstruction scheme operating at the same time as it had the dairy bounty encouraging greater productivity in a market that was spasmodically affected by world oversupply. That was a contradiction in policy if ever we have seen one. Yet the Minister said in last week's apologia for his own inaction that the Labor Government had no forward planning. This is the sort of nonsense that he tried to put over to the farmers in Launceston last week, in the State most affected by this dairying crisis. I am sure that the thousands of dairy farmers in Tasmania were not impressed; nor were their Victorian counterparts who face the same fatecommercial extinction. 
The old Country Party shibboleth has manifested itself- again-encourage production, ignore world trends, wait until a crisis is around one's ears and then vacillate, call for a second, superflous IAC report on the industry, which the Minister has just done, and waffle at farmer meetings month in and month out while thousands of families go destitute across the nation. Shame on this Government and former LiberalCountry Party governments for refusing to take a sensible attitude to rural production in the past. Shame on them for buying their seats with publicsupport schemes for over-producing industries. This has finally led to the disappointment and doom of thousands of Australians. So much for National Country Party ad hockery so much for this Minister's hollow charge against the former Labor Government. 
Let us look at the first Bill. The Labor Party does not disparage this Bill. We do not oppose it. It is a case of too little about 15 years too late. Obviously past Liberal-Country governments should have tailored the level of production in dairy products as far as practicable to balance with realistic domestic and overseas market demand, with production designed to suit the long term trends in markets for agricultural commodities, such as the decline in access to the European Economic Community markets. Sadly this was never done. So now we look at the Government 's emergency measures. I will detail them for the information of the House. They are: To underwrite the equalisation value of skim milk powder for the 1975-76 season at $300 per tonne and increase the rate of Government advances from 80 per cent to 100 per cent; to vary the conditions of eligibility for unemployment benefits to enable dairy farmers and other primary producers suffering financial hardship to qualify for assistance; to suspend the issue of new dairy licences in the coming financial year, as if that could not have been done a few years ago, to change the quota system for market milk to remove the requirement on farmers to fill individual quotas during the offseason. 
The purpose of this legislation fundamentally is: To extend the Dairy Adjustment Act 1974 to provide a maximum loan of $4,000 to an individual on a term of up to 7 years at 4 per cent, with a repayment holiday of 12 months; to extend relocation assistance by increasing the maximum loan from $3,000 to $5,000. What a desperate collection of measures for a government that had the management of this industry for such a long period, and finds that it now must promote policies with a single purpose of a rapid contraction of production and welfare assistance. 
All of a sudden the dole has become a fashionable instrument of government policy. This much mocked, much maligned unemployment benefit increased by the Labor Government during its tenure of office is now resurrected to paper over the cracks in Country Party neglect. I suspect the easy catch-cry dole bludger which we heard last year from the former Opposition, now the Government, will become just a memory of their squalid road to power. These great men of business, these men born to rule, these men who know the vagaries of international trade, sat by and watched the EEC foster the agricultural interests of its own member nations which have this year culminated in a skim milk powder stockpile of 2 million tons. Despite the ominous portens of the EEC's self interest, Austalian dairy production was actively encouraged without prior identification of permanent markets which could be relied upon at a time of general world over supply. The Australian dairy industry has now to accept the realities of the world market and tailor its production to satisfy a permanent domestic demand plus known viable export markets. Contraction in dairy farm produce to arrive at this point has to be assisted by governments generally in Australia with compassion and understanding. 
I turn now to the second Bill in this cognate debate- the Dairy Industry Research and Promotion Levy Bill 1976. Its purpose is to impose a levy on whole milk or on butter fat, as the case may be, to provide a more equitable and effective form of financing the administration and promotion activities of the Australian Dairy Corporation. As the Minister for Primary Industry has said, the Bill, in effect, provides for the existing levy, which contributes towards the cost of financing the dairy industry's research program, to be extended to finance the operation of the Corporation. The Opposition supports the legislation as it does any legislation which will assist the dairy industry in making a conscious effort to put its rather disorganised house into some sort of order. 
However, it is interesting to note the hesitancy with which the Government and industry have come to the conclusion that it is high time the artificial boundaries and prejudices of State governments, which have bedevilled and exacerbated the problems in the dairy industry, should be laid aside. The fact is that State governments have established dairy industries which compete for resources and protect their markets to the detriment of efficient producers in other States. These efficient producers have been deprived of lucrative markets in one State or another because of the petty, protective jealousies of State governments. I am pleased to see the State governments have accepted the proposals contained in these Bills and that the market milk sector, while having some reservations, is prepared to participate in this program. 
Why has it taken so long for the partners in this whole sorry affair to realise the extent of their difficulties? It must now be quite clear that those self professed masters of business acumen who now sit on the Government benches have no answer. The case of the quick and convenient excuse and the postponement of consideration of the industry's problems are long since gone and the Minister, who I am sure knows this but refuses to admit it, will find that when his reconsidered LAC report is received in August the problems will not have disappeared but will remain. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill, but rather than a very precise and accounting-like presentation of the elements of the Bill by the Minister, we would have preferred to hear from him something of his proposals for research and promotion of dairy products. Are we to assume the Australian consumer is to continue to pay high prices for second grade butter while first quality butter is exported at bargain basement prices? Are we to expect the industry to adopt its past practices of serving up butter to the consumer in greaseproof paper rather than in a tub which can be resealed? I know some changes have been made, but where are the market proposals this Government has in mind? Why has the Government failed to indicate what its research and marketing proposals are for this industry? Are we to assume that the dairy industry will continue to produce for the European markets without first undertaking market research studies to determine whether their products can be sold there, or can we now expect a more intelligent approach which will first explore and promote dairy products on markets more likely to provide profitable returns? Where are the proposals for penetration of the more lucrative markets of Japan, the Pacific region and the Middle East? 
One might also seek some explanation of the industry's inability to come to grips with the problem of stagnant sales of fluid milk and the decline in consumption of butter. Over the years the industry has sought to solve the problems of diminishing returns by seeking and obtaining price increases. There has never been any indication, to my knowledge, that the industry carried out research to see what effects continual price hikes would have and whether it was in the best interests of the industry. Did the industry not think that the limit would be reached when consumers would look for alternatives such as dried full cream and milk powders, non-dairy coffee whiteners and the cheaper soft drinks as well as fresh fruit juices? Did the industry give these matters any consideration, or is its research policy now one of shutting the gate after the horse has bolted? Why, it can be asked, has the industry refused to produce a more spreadable butter using vegetable oils if this would have maintained sales? Will the industry be conducting research only on a commodity basis, or will it now face the realities of the industry situation and look into the economic and marketing aspects of rural industries, into its farming systems, into diversification of its products as well as adjustment and sociological issues associated with changes which are now so much more necessary than ever before in the Australian dairy industry? The Minister should have spelled these matters out clearly. However, I believe that this levy will allow the Australian Dairy Corporation to pursue more actively the process of change within the industry and to give attention to the types of matters I have raised. 
It is true that the Corporation has worked under extremely difficult conditions in the past through lack of finances and resources, but with the broom which was put through the former Dairy Produce Board by the former Labor Agriculture Minister,  Senator Wriedt,  and with the appointment of a full time  Chairman,  it is now likely that the Australian Dairy Corporation will provide the necessary breathing space to formulate long term plans for the industry. It is certainly to be hoped that the industry refrains from its traditional internal bickering and gives the Corporation much needed support in having its plans implemented. The distrust of large sections of the industry of the Corporation should be put aside and the industry, together with the Corporation and all governments in Australia, should try to forge a new way forward to give the industry a secure place in Australian agriculture. 
The third and final Bill associated with this cognate debate is the Dairy Industry Research and Promotion (Miscellaneous Amendments) Bill 1976. The purpose of this Bill is to supplement the Dairy Industry Research and Promotion Levy Bill to repeal the existing butter fat levy legislation and make a number of consequential amendments to the Bill. As the Opposition has not opposed the 2 previous Bills involved in this cognate debate, it does not oppose this Bill either. 
I ask the Treasurer a question. Does the Treasurer agree that the foreign  investment guidelines are deficient in that there is no mechanism for the marshalling of capital in Australia for Australian companies, particularly for investment in long term resource projects? Will he announce specific criteria on which the Government will decide whether a project can go ahead with a predominance of foreign equity without adequate Australian participation? Will he clear up the Government's policy? 
-The Northern Territory (Administration) Amendment Bill 1976 is designed for the progressive transfer of administrative responsibility to a Northern Territory executive. To this end the Bill establishes an Executive Council of the Northern Territory of Australia. The functions of this Executive are broadly related to matters arising under laws of the Territory, other than laws of the Commonwealth and matters to which the functions of a specified department of the Public Service of the Territory relate. 
This measure flows from the recommendations of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Constitutional Development of the Northern Territory, known as the James Committee, which was chaired by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  The report recommended the steady devolution of executive autonomy for the Territory Assembly- a body which is now an elected body thanks to the initiative of the former Labor Government. 
The Northern Territory is developing towards the stage where it is becoming a self-sustaining region, although at the moment it relies heavily upon Commonwealth spending. The mineral wealth of the Territory and the production faculties associated with these large deposits will require much more local scrutiny and management as resource projects move towards production. The Territory is rich in copper, bauxite, alumina, manganese and uranium, to name but a few metals, as well as oil and gas reserves particularly offshore. 
Last year I had the pleasure of serving the people of the Northern Territory as Minister for Northern Australia and would probably have been introducing this legislation myself had the term of the Parliament not been cut short by the grab for power of the present Government- the former Opposition. The Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  made reference in his second reading speech to the Labor Party's initiative for a fully elected Legislative Assembly but went on to say: 'The promises and assurances were speedily forgotten and the Assembly ignored . This is not true. At the time of the dismissal of the Labor Government I had advised the Cabinet secretariat to regard as active a Cabinet submission listed for Cabinet decision by my predecessor, the Honourable Rex Patterson. The former Minister's officers would confirm this. 
It was the clear intention of the former Labor Cabinet to agree to the submissions which would have commenced the steady devolution of executive power to the Legislative Assembly and its executive. Statements to this effect were also made by me during the election campaign. This move was in line with the Labor Party's adoption of the spirit of the James Committee report for the transfer of executive functions. The Labor Party established the Legislative Assembly in the first place. The Whitlam Labor Government carried this concept further to a fully elected House. Despite 23 years in government, the previous Liberal and National Country Parties did nothing whatsoever to promote autonomy. As well as this, Labor passed legislation for the representation of the 2 Northern Territory senators in the Australian Senate despite opposition from the present coalition when in Opposition. Again no action was taken in this respect by our predecessors during their 23-year reign in national office. 
The extravagant promises of statehood by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  during the election campaign were a death-bed repentance for 23 years of Liberal Party and National Country Party inaction in the Territory. In the crucial early days of the 1975 election campaign the coalition was prepared to offer anything to keep its grip on the Northern Territory seat in the House of Representatives despite the fact that its promise was inconsistent with its past performance. 
Let me turn now to the question of Government spending in the Territory and examine the Government's  bona fides.  In the last round of Government expenditure cuts announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his mini-Budget, one finds drastic cuts in Government programs. These include the reduction of spending by the Department of the Northern Territory by $5m this financial year; the deferral of uncommitted civil works projects totalling between $4m and $5m; the reduction in expenditure in the field of plant and equipment for transport and general services by $lm; the deferral of subsidies to the Darwin and Alice Springs City Corporations by the order of $ 1.1m; threatened increases in rates and taxes; threatened increases in the rentals of government houses in the Territory, and many more refusals on commitments to various major works programs. This is some program for a Government with the supposed interest of the Territory at heart! This is what we often hear from the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  in particular. Contrast this behaviour with the Labor Government's spending during its tenure of office. The Labor Government made massive increases - 
-These proposals amount to a loss in revenue estimated at $37m in a full year. While one can understand that some applications of the coal export duty tax in fact did not discriminate as to the profitability of companies- 
Motion ( by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. I refer to the accelerated write-off provisions allowed for mining expenditure on capital equipment. As the Treasurer did his best last night, with a play on words, to conceal the fact that the Industries Assistance Commission - 
-The purpose of this Bill is to obtain legislative authority to provide financial assistance to the Government of Queensland towards the cost of construction of flood mitigation works along the Proserpine River in North Queensland. The Bill is the same as the Bill I had the pleasure of introducing as Minister for Northern Australia late last year. The debate on the Bill was interrupted by the double dissolution. The assistance proposed is a non-repayable grant, not exceeding $374,400, representing 40 per cent of the estimated cost of works to protect the town of Proserpine and adjacent valuable sugar-cane farmland from floods of estimated frequency of once in 10 years. The grant by the Australian Government is conditional upon the Queensland Government also contributing 40 per cent of the cost of the works and the Proserpine River Improvement Trust contributing 20 per cent. This apportionment of Federal, State and local authority contributions- 40 per cent, 40 per cent and 20 per cent- is consistent with the former Australian Government's overall approach to the problems of flood mitigation and, I believe, the approach of this Government. 
Members of the House will recall the extremely serious flooding which occurred over extensive areas of north Queensland in December 1973 and in early 1974. Recognising that those disastrous floods demonstrated the need for an adequate approach to flood mitigation in areas likely to be affected in Queensland, the then Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  wrote to the Premier early in 1974 proposing that an investigation should be undertaken directed at the whole problem of flood mitigation in Queensland. The then Prime Minister also invited the Queensland Premier to submit a State-wide plan on flood mitigation which could be a basis of consideration for Australian Government assistance. The Queensland Premier in response made clear the Queensland Government's view that one of the most urgent priorities was a flood mitigation scheme for the Proserpine River. 
The floods of December 1973 and January 1974 caused such substantial damage to the existing levee system that it immediately became evident that there was an urgent need for restoration works before the onset of the 1974-75 wet season. Indeed, it was apparent that the damaged levee system could not have contained even a modest river flow in the wet season. The former Australian Labor Government considered the special situation of the Proserpine River as a matter of urgency and a nonrepayable grant of $120,000 was authorised under the Queensland Grant (Proserpine Flood Mitigation) Act 1974 to assist the Queensland Government in meeting the cost of urgent restoration works. It was evident at the time, however, that there was insufficient information available on which to base decisions for construction work and financial assistance for a Proserpine River flood mitigation scheme as a whole. Since then, a detailed investigation of the scheme has been carried out in accordance with national water policy procedures with the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation providing expert advice on the proposals. 
The Proserpine area is one of the most important sugar producing regions in Australia. The town of Proserpine and nearby sugar cane farms adjoin the Proserpine River and its tributaries. The town and these farms have been afforded some protection against floods by unlicensed levee banks constructed over the years by farmers. In the main, these levee banks were constructed in an  ad hoc  fashion without full knowledge of overall hydrological implications or engineering practices. Consequently, these levee banks are susceptible to unpredictable failure. Moreover, floodwaters have been prevented by the levee banks from flowing into extensive natural pondages. The problems have been compounded by low natural river capacity downstream from the town of Proserpine. It is quite clear that, although allowing for completion of the necessary restoration works, the present system of levee banks overall is structurally unsound and inadequate to protect the town and farms. Summed up, assuming no levee failures, the levee bank system is capable only of containing flood flows of an assessed frequency of less that once in three years. It has to be recognised that potential points of failures during future floods are still largely unpredictable. The present situation is entirely unsatisfactory. The town and nearby farms must be afforded a greater degree of protection. 
The flood mitigation works for which financial assistance is to be authorised under the Bill are set out in the Schedule to the Bill. Briefly, these works consist of river improvement works; construction, reconstruction and realignment of levees; construction of spillways, overflow structures and levees to divert flood flows together with works on diversion channels; and regrading of a road. The estimated cost of the scheme is $936,000, of which the Australian Government's contribution, 40 per cent, is $374,000. Construction is scheduled for a period of 3 years. Apart from the value of the scheme from the flood mitigation and safety points of view, it will bring economic and social benefits to the region. It is anticipated that the environmental impact of the scheme will be largely beneficial. The Opposition supports the legislation, and I commend the Bill to the House. 
-The Opposition has chosen as a matter of public importance the question of the continuing mismanagement by the Government of Australia's natural resources and their marketing. It does so because of the Government's ineptitude in an area of business on which Australia has come to depend and will depend more in the future. After constantly berating the Labor Government for 3 years one now finds that the Fraser-Anthony Government is bankrupt in its administration of Australia's resource development and marketing. 
Australia now has the words of all worlds- a government without a minerals policy of its own attempting to live off the policies of the former Labor Government and camouflaging its inadequacy by distorting and dismembering the former policy to suit an ideological view which demands a diminishing role for government in an industry lacking national direction. One could at least respect the Government's view if it was backed up with a policy that accommodated its ideology. Sadly, however, the policy is but a concoction of public statements which mean little to the industry, to our overseas customers or to interested Australians. 
I will take the export control policy. The Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  boasts about the export controls providing an opportunity for benigned supervision of Australian resource industries. That was the policy of the former Government. But his supervision is so benign as to be non-existent.  His  supervision of export contracts has been so lax that the mining industry, the one industry that did so much in support of his election last year, is now expressing reservations about his administrative capacity. The reason is that without government backing and appropriate intervention in international resource negotiation, whether direct or indirect, the mining companies, the national revenue and the ordinary man in the street, lose out. 
Australia needs every export dollar it can earn, yet this Minister will not exercise the export control power as he should. He has shown himself to be afraid of the Japanese and our other major customers. They have walked all over him; they have frightened him off. The result of course is that the Japanese steel industry and other international industries are being subsidised by the incidence of lower Australian resource prices. Take coal, for example. Recent price negotiations by Australian coal companies in Japan indicate that in real terms Australian coal producers are between $A3 and $A5 a tonne worse off than they should be. Indications are that Australia supplies the cheapest coal to Japan of the 4 major suppliers, which include the United States, Canada and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. It is small wonder overseas buyers and their governments are losing respect for the Australian mining industry and its Government at the international negotiating table. 
Overseas buyers now realise Australia is becoming the soft option in resource procurement. The Liberals have returned to the pre- 1972 days when our customers totally dominated resource negotiations, by cutting prices and placing Australian producers in a marginal position where they were just covering costs with a nominal profit. Buyers are again determining the profitability of Australia's resource industry. As a united force they are able to split the Australian producers in all directions, play one off against the other so as to procure prices and conditions to their liking. 
The need for government intervention and backing for Australia's resource companies was illustrated by the extremely large price increases achieved for resources during the 3 years of Labor administration. This fact is now belatedly recognised in Australian financial Press and by the extractive industries themselves. I shall quote from the  Australian Financial Review  of 28 August this year. No less a personage than  Mr Warwick  Parer, an executive of Utah Mining Co. and  Chairman  of the Exporters Division of the 
Australian Coal Association, told the Securities Institute of Australia that in the last round of coal price negotiations the Japanese steel mills had succeeded in playing Australian coal exporters off against each other and as a result Australia had secured a lower price than may otherwise have been obtained. The  Australian Financial Review  notes: 

 Mr Parer's comments represent a turn around in the industries attitude to the Government being involved in coal price negotiations. 

 Mr Parer said ... in recent negotiations with the Japanese steel mills the Government went to great lengths to avoid interfering. 
It is quite clear that the Minister, who has abrogated his responsibility in this matter, must once again assert the role of the Government in this area. Every other government but Australia's involved with resource based industries, whether buyer or supplier- and I stress buyer- has interventionist policies in resource negotiations. 
Let us look at iron ore for a moment. The financial Press quite rightly has described the current negotiations on additional Australian productive capacity as an iron ore scramble. This Government is allowing the steel mills of Japan to determine the priorities for development in our iron ore industry. Let us look at the competing forces in the current iron ore scramble. Take the existing producers- the Hamersley expansion, the Mt Newman expansion and the Robe River expansion- or the new projects such as the Goldsworthy Area C, the Marandoo project or BHP's Deepdale project. All of them are battling for a share of a limited market. At least one of the projects- Marandoo- is prepared to sell its soul in terms of its export price, to arrange an investment involving a 10 : 1 gearing ratio. The plan, of course, is premised on the acquisition of large slabs of Japanese capital in return for a  quid pro quo  on price which could jeopardise other Australian producers. 
I am certain that the Minister has no plan for this industry. For instance, does he believe that existing projects should be accommodated first in any additional market? I refer to companies such as Hamersley and Mt Newman. Does he believe that Goldsworthy, as an existing producer, is entitled to additional contract tonnages before such projects as Marandoo and Deepdale? Should we not believe that the right course to follow is the setting of priorities between the 
Federal Government and the Western Australian Government as to the order of development, or does the minister believe that the decision should be taken in the board room of Nippon Steel, or any other Japanese company for that matter? The plain fact is that this Minister has no idea of what he is doing. His  laissez-faire  approach is nothing more than a blind for his incompetence. 
Let us consider the subject of petroleum. We have heard much bleating from the Minister about the need to fix guidelines for exploration companies searching for oil in Australia. But look at the performance. There has been a failure by the Minister and the Government to outline the correct legal position to potential Australian oil explorers and producers searching in offshore Australia.  His  colleague the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  is a willing accomplice in a desperate play to smother the differences between the State and Federal organisations of the Government Parties. They are prepared to abdicate the Commonwealth's proper role in offshore administration in the face of a spirited bluff by some conservative State Premiers. 
The fact of the matter is that the High Court judgment on the Seas and Submerged Lands Act, which was deferred until 17 December 1 975, clearly established once and for all that the Australian Government has sovereignty over the seabed, superjacent waters and air space. The decision is based on section 51 of the Constitution and the dictum 'external affairs commences from the low water mark'. Perhaps I should remind the Minister that, in his judgment, Chief Justice Barwick said that sovereign rights to explore and exploit this area belong to the Australian Government in the right of the Crown and not the States. There is no 3-mile limit to State sovereignty. The States may have powers to pass laws for 'peace, order and good government' over off-shore areas in such matters as crimes, workers compensation and the like; but, even so, if Commonwealth laws exist or are later enacted, State laws inconsistent with them are invalid. The Attorney-General, when asked a question on this subject, said, as recorded in  Hansard: 
I am prepared to indicate that I have taken the view that, although there may be some doubt as to the validity of the State Acts, the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act of the Commonwealth remains valid and the permits that are granted pursuant to it by State Ministers who are the Designated Authority under that Act are valid. 
What a piece of studied evasion that was! The Attorney-General knows, as does the Minister for National Resources, that the State Acts are invalid- and I am speaking of the mirror legislation for the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. 
The Attorney-General also would realise that the High Court decisions of 1916 and 1921 are based on the principle that the executive powers of the Commonwealth can be exercised only by Commonwealth Ministers and by officers of the Commonwealth and that under no circumstances can a State Minister of the Crown, such as a State Minister for Mines, be considered an officer of the Commonwealth, as he answers to a State parliament- and the same applies to a State public servant. Yet the Government persists with this foolish charade and leads the Australian oil exploration and production industry into a quagmire of uncertainty. The Government asserts that it wants a clear policy for exploration; yet it is prepared to coax these companies into a position of illegality to satisfy the internal politics of its combatant Federal and State Parties. The functions of the Designated Authority under the Federal Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act in the granting of exploration or production rights, the definition of areas, the payment and collection of royalties and other moneys and the conditions of drilling intensity are exclusively Commonwealth functions in the exercise of Commonwealth sovereignty. 
I have said before and I say again that a future Australian Labor government will permit development in accordance with the law and on no other basis. The Commonwealth Government must be directly involved in the administering of resource development in off-shore areas. It is high time the Minister for National Resources introduced legislation to give administrative effect to the sovereignty asserted by the Seas and Submerged Lands Act. It is time the industry was dealt with honestly by this Government and not tricked and hoodwinked into believing that its position is legally sound. In respect of oil exploration activity, I made it clear in a Press statement I released after the Budget that the Opposition was not opposed to the lifting of the $2 a barrel crude oil excise on new oil to promote development. I made it clear in an earlier Press release that a future Labor government would agree to sufficient gas exports to guarantee the viability of the North- West Shelf BOCAL development. The Opposition clearly sees the need for a rapid and effective oil exploration program, but it will have no part of  Mr Anthony's  and  Mr Ellicott  's pantomime. 
The other area in which the Minister for National Resources and the Government are culpable is their so-called foreign investment policy. The Government's high-minded ideals, as set out in the speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in April of this year, have turned into nothing but a retreat to the old policies that existed before 1972. Ministers have constantly watered down the import of the original guidelines with statements assuring foreign investors of their 'flexibility'. The Minister told all and sundry in Europe during his recent visit there that projects do not have to have a SO per cent Australian equity to begin and that he will even consider 100 per cent foreign companies, provided they can show that they were unable to attract Australian capital. Yet what is the test of their  bona fides  in this respect? It is a subjective test that is applied by the Minister for National Resources on the one hand and the Foreign Investment Review Board on the other. 
Three weeks ago we had the incredible spectacle of the Government sending 2 members of the Foreign Investment Review Board overseas to drum up foreign investment in Australia. The men who were to be reviewing foreign investment proposals are the men who are now drumming up the business. The week before that we saw  Sir William  Pettingell, the other member of the Review Board, changing the Government's investment policy by unilaterally announcing that the Board's criterion on foreign investment will be only an economic one. In other words, the Government's foreign investment policy can be changed at the whim of the Foreign Investment Review Board and the Board's policy is determined by the individual views of its members. So much for the Treasurer's statement in April. 
If I had time, I would instance more than just some of the cringing remarks that the  Deputy  Prime Minister made overseas recently in his endeavours to attract foreign capital to Australia. He said in one of his statements that it was soon likely that there would be American investment in the BOCAL consortium. He was not going to insist upon Burmah Oil disposing of its shares to an Australian company. He would have been content to see them fall into American hands. It is no thanks to him that BHP concluded a deal with Burmah Oil. As it turns out, there is now a majority Australian holding in the venture; but if Australia had had to rely on the strength of the Government 's foreign investment policy it would not have happened. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister is always talking about how difficult it is to get Australians to invest in resource projects, but he knows full well that Australian companies have to borrow most of their debt money outside of Australia. How does he expect any sound Australian company to go overseas at the moment seeking large sums of debt capital when a currency devaluation of the order of 15 per cent would mean a massive loss in the first year of operation? Until the Government clearly articulates the reasons why it believes that the parity of the Australian dollar is appropriate or otherwise, Australian corporations will not risk their necks by borrowing other currencies. 
-Very briefly, I want to make a couple of pertinent points to rebut the glib but nevertheless evasive reply given by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson).  The Opposition's basic objection to this piece of legislation was that the Government was trying to conceal the real level of the deficit had it dealt with this capital raising in the manner in which it is normally dealt with. While the Opposition does not cavil at the legality or indeed the manner in which this money will now be raised, it does make the point that had the Government included this in its normal budgetary arrangements the deficit would have been larger. No amount of fancy phrases or glib terms from the Minister can disguise that fact. 
The Minister made a couple of erroneous points that need to be answered. He said the deficit of the Labor Budget was approaching $5,000m. In fact, the cuts made by this Government to the Hayden Budget amounted to only $3 70m. The growth in the deficit arose from a shortfall in tax collections because the rate of growth in wages was lower than that budgeted for by the Treasurer and the Treasury at the time of the introduction of the Hayden Budget. It was estimated that the growth in wages would be 22 per cent. In fact it turned out to be only 14 per cent. Because there was a smaller increase in wages less tax was collected, and because less tax was collected and not because there was an increase in spending there was a larger deficit. Had the Labor Government's term of office not been chopped short by the behaviour of the then Opposition, the Labor Government, like the present Government, would have attempted to finance some of the deficit by capital raisings, as the Government is doing now, some time this year. So let us cut out the political nonsense. The fact is that the Labor deficit was as large as it was because of a shortfall in collections. The present Government did virtually nothing to reduce that deficit. It made a token cut in spending of $370m when it said it would do more. In fact, this little operation- this $200m borrowing on the Australian capital market- introduces a new concept of statutory corporations going on to the market in their own right in much the same way as the Sydney County Council in New South Wales, the State Electricity Commission in Victoria or the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board in New South Wales presently does. 
We do not object to that. What we object to is that the Minister is trying to deceive the Parliament and the people about the size of the deficit. It ill-behoves him to try to disguise the weakness of his own argument by attacking Opposition personalities such as the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  That is not the way a Minister defends his case. If I might say so, the Minister defended his case most inadequately. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
Sitting suspended from 5.56 to 8 p.m. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No.  1) 1976-77  Second Reading (Budget Debate) 
Debate resumed from 9 September, on motion by  Mr Lynch: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Upon which  Mr E.  G. Whitlam had moved by way of amendment: 
That all the words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the House condemns the Budget because- 
it pursues a policy of unemployment as a weapon to reduce real wages and salaries: 
it abdicates federal government responsibilities and forces the State governments and local governments either to reduce their services or institute additional charges, or both; 
it introduces an additional tax in the form of the Medibank levy, thus further reducing consumer spending; 
it reduces the availability of services to the whole community but particularly to those most vulnerable to hardship notably Aborigines, the unemployed and migrants, and 
it fails to institute selective stimulatory expenditure to reduce unemployment and restore consumer confidence'. 
-When we cut through all of the nonsense that Government members have spoken about their economic policy, we get back to this simple fact: They were elected to reduce inflation and unemployment. They have been in office for 10 months and they have failed to do either. Basically, their economic policy is a conundrum, a riddle. In essence, the Government is saying to the work force that through a reduction in real wages it should earn less but go out and spend more. This is a contradiction in terms and it is no wonder that people in this country have no confidence in the Government. Contrary to what the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon)  says, the Ministers in his own Government are now out. As recently as today, the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator Cotton)  is reported in the newspapers trying to drum up confidence in retailing. There is no confidence in the community. Basically, the Budget reinforces the spurious proposition of earn less and spend more. We find again in the Budget the obsession with the deficit, the reduction in Commonwealth services and reductions in the rate of growth of payments to the States, obliging them ultimately to levy additional charges which, of course, add to cost pressures. These are policies that produce growing unemployment and add to costs. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  are enslaved with the import of the monetarist theory. Just this week they appointed 10 people to an economic council. They were professors of economics who are all monetarists and right wing economists. So we can expect that this monetarist theme will run through Government policies in the future. 
It is basically a theme of rigid money supply management and a holding down of government spending. In respect of money supply management we saw the risque performance of the Government earlier this year when it went on to the Australian capital market with Australian savings bonds which were called the 'Lynch bonds'. The Government stopped offering the bonds just in time to prevent interest rates going through the roof. It was lucky enough to cream off about $ 1,600m. The Government then issued a bond with a rate of about 9.5 per cent which creamed off something like another $ 1,000m. The way in which the Government floated the bonds meant a reduction in the deficit. But it was not without some risk to the whole question of interest rates in this country. The Government is now preaching a policy of encouraging foreign investment back into Australia in large slabs not only to enhance its balance of payments on current account, but to alleviate the problem of a future devaluation. Rigid money supply management and the inflow of foreign capital will mean a diminution in the money available domestically to Australian business. The only result of that can be less money available to Australian companies and more available to foreign companies. 
Basically the matter revolves around 2 things. One of them is the question of holding down government spending. Statement No. 1 attached to the Budget Papers for 1 976-77 indicates that outlays have increased by 11.3 per cent while receipts have increased by 18.8 per cent. An increase of 11.3 per cent would have kept the 
Budget outlays about the same in real terms as they were last year, presuming that the Government could decrease inflation in this country by about one per cent, that is, reduce the current inflation rate of 12 per cent to around 11 per cent. However the phoneyness of the Government's claim of keeping the Budget outlays the same as they were last year is exposed by the fact that included in the 1 1.3 per cent increase in outlays is child endowment or the family allowance payments which were a consequence of the abolition of a tax deduction which amounted to $700m in a full year. As the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  pointed out, this means in fact that actual outlays will be increased by only about 8 per cent in the face of an inflation level of about 12 per cent. So in real terms there is a 4 per cent diminution in Commonwealth outlays when compared with last year. This is 4 per cent less than the Government is prepared to admit because it well knows that it has reduced public sector outlays by such a substantial amount, all in the interest of having the field taken up by the so-called private sector. So the Government's claim that it has adjusted last year's Budget outlays with an inflation rate of 1 1 per cent is not true. It is another one of its continuing deceptions. 
Another clear objective of the Government is the reduction of the level of wages. Perhaps 3 quotes from the speech of the Treasurer, best sum up what the Government's objectives are all about. The Treasurer refers to 'turning back the recent trend towards bigger and bigger government'. He then refers to the 'need to rectify the wage-profit distortion' induced in 1974. What that means is that any increase in the level of wages during 1974 is now to go back to companies. That is what he means by 'rectifying the wage-profit distortion'. Then he referred to 'restraint on Budget outlays and on the size of the public sector' as necessary 'to foster expansion of the private sector'. What the Government means by that is that by a reduction of 4 per cent in real Commonwealth outlays, the resources which the Commonwealth would normally be trying to reap to itself are to be made available to the private sector. So in a nutshell, the Government's policy is based on an investment led recovery. It is as cynical as this: A reduction in wage relativities through partial indexation adjustment is to remain in the pockets of the private sector. 
So what the Government is saying is that while the Prime Minister said during the general election campaign that he agreed with wage indexation, he broke his promise after he came into power. His broken promise meant a claim for partial wage indexation which was granted by the Arbitration Commission. What that means is that working people do not have their wages adjusted as inflation erodes their pay packets. Therefore they have a reduction in their real earnings. Another item of Government policy is a reduction in all government outlays to free the private sector from the competition of resources. The Government has treated companies very generously- more generously than I believe they needed to. The result is that the investment allowance has been reinstated as an incentive for the installation of productive plant which will cost revenue $600m in a full year. The Government has given companies concessions for stock replacement at current values rather than on the original cost of the stock. In a full year this will cost revenue $700m. This is quite a lot when one considers that the total company tax base was only $2,500m in the last financial year. So in one full year the stock adjustment scheme equals 28 per cent of the total company tax base. The Government has given generous concesssions to the mining industry which means forgone revenue to the tune of $ 100m in a full year. 
If we add up the investment allowance for a full year, the stock replacement value of $700m in a full year, the $ 100m concessions to the mining industry and other concessions we find that about $ 1,400m or 56 per cent of the total company tax collections has been wiped off the slate. So on the one hand the Government is saying to the work force that it is not prepared to see that workers get an increase in their wages to meet the inflation cost but on the other hand it is prepared to give half the company tax base to companies. This amounts to $ 1,400m when these concessions operate in a full year. 
I should just like to trace the movement of pay-as-you-earn taxation to show how ordinary individual taxpayers have been slugged over the years and how they have been continually slugged to the benefit of companies. In 1 970-7 1 , payasyouearn tax formed 34 per cent of general tax revenue. Today it is 44 per cent- an increase of 10 per cent. By contrast, in 1970-71 companies were paying 19.5 per cent of general taxation revenue in company tax. This amount is now down to 14.5 per cent. So in the 6-year period, individual income tax collections have increased by 10 per cent of general taxation revenue and company tax has decreased by 5 per cent. In 1970-71 company tax collections represented 57 per cent of individual income tax payasyouearn collections. Today they represent only 32.9 per cent. So it is very easy to demonstrate how the Government is feather-bedding the private sector very much at the expense of ordinary individuals. 
The question is: Will the plan work? The Opposition believes it will not work because productive capacity will not be installed by business unless businessmen can see some market for their product; no matter how generous the investment allowance, small businessmen in particular will not invest until they can see some market for their products. A policy of planned unemployment flowing from cuts in government spending reduces the capacity of the public to buy because if there are cuts in government spending, which means growing unemployment, obviously unemployed people do not have wages to spend and also the presence of unemployment saps consumer confidence. It is obvious to everybody in the House that while unemployment is around and growing, people will leave their money in the bank and will not spend it. This is borne out by the report in the Melbourne  Age  today in which the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  tried to talk the retailers into improving their performance. An inordinate growth in savings bank deposits results when the public locks its money up until the storm is past. For that reason the Opposition believes the Government's policy will fail. The Government put all its eggs in an investment led recovery basket. Now it is changing its tune back to the Labor theme of last year which was that of a consumer led recovery. I quote from an article on retail sales which appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  recently. The article states: 
Recovery in retail sales slackened in July according to figures released yesterday by the Statistics Bureau. 
It went on to say: 
Nevertheless, they scarcely provide glad tidings for the Government in its quest for a strengthening in consumer demand. 
Of course that strengthening in consumer demand is not there. One can also look at the level of savings bank deposits. An article in the  Australian Financial Review  of 9 September stated: 
Savings bank deposits continued to grow firmly during July, according to Statistics Bureau figures released yesterday in Canberra. 
The rate of growth in deposits provides little evidence that consumers are beginning to unlock their savings . . . 
Of course they are not. No amount of chatter from the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  who has overstayed his time in this place, can overcome the problem that people will not spend and confidence has not returned. The simple election of the Fraser Government did not provide the magical formula for a return to confidence. Retail sales have dropped. The total number of vehicle registrations have dropped by 14.5 per cent this year. The building industry is in a state of collapse. Unemployment is increasing. This year 200 000 school leavers will hit the dole. Already 100 000 of their comrades are on the dole. According to the food prices index which was released a couple of days ago, the rate of inflation is still running at 12 per cent. So we are really in a very happy position! So much for 10 months of Liberal-Country Party Government. So much for the magic wand of  Mr Fraser.  In short, the lights are going off, not on.  Mr Fraser  's skyrocket of hope which was launched so confidently last November has produced nothing but sparks, and we are left completely in the dark. A report in the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  of 8 December 1975, in dealing with remarks made by the then caretaker Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  reads: '200 000 cut in Jobless', says  Mr Fraser.  'Australia's unemployment figures could be slashed by up to 200 000 under a Liberal-National Country Party Government', the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  said yesterday. 
He said at the same time he would try to cut inflation by 1 1 percent. 
So much for brave words. In fact, none of what was said then has come true, and I think the Australian people now realise that rape of democracy which took place last November in the name of economic sanity was a furphy and that all they are getting out of it is growing unemployment and a level of inflation which is higher than they could have expected under a Labor administration. Even the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  was forced to make an admission in this regard. In the Press a few weeks ago he was reported as saying: 
I am aware that the new Government has not come up to the expectations of many people. 
He is aware of it all right. He is being kicked to death all around the countryside because the Government has not come up to the expectations of many people. Back bench members on the Government side might smile in the chamber, but they are quivering in the corridors. There are a lot of oncers among them. In the 7 years in which I have been a member of this place I think that there has been a turnover of about 60 per cent in the membership of this House. It is very likely that with the support which I have in the electorate of Blaxland I will see many of the oncers on the Government side disappear. So the cocky  Mr Fraser  might just be brought down to size when his own back benchers go carping at his door regarding his actions on the economic front. Even last week the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  when he was asked on television whether he believed that his Government was doing enough about unemployment, replied: 'Frankly, no'. What greater criticism can the Prime Minister get than his own back benchers belting him to death? Then the honourable member for Mackellar went on to say that he does not want to see a generation of Andy Capps in Australia. He meant that he does not want to see a generation of young people leaving school and going immediately on to the dole. He does not want to see people who have never been used to moving into the work force going straight on to unemployment benefits, on to the dole. Some of my opponents are trying to interject. I know that I am getting too rough for them. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! I would like to hear the honourable member for Blaxland. 
I desire to ask the Treasurer a question. I refer him to his approval of the purchase by Nippon Steel of a 3 per cent interest in the Robe River project, giving Nippon Steel a place on the Robe River board. In view of the fact that Nippon Steel is the purchasing agent for all Japanese steel mills, can the Treasurer say what is the Government's attitude to the principle of having our major customers involved in the management of our major productive enterprises? Does he believe that our customers' access to such matters as cost of production and marketing policy is in the national interest? 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  this motion need not have been moved had the Government not behaved in the manner in which it did. Indeed, the former Government - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the honourable member for Blaxland be not further heard. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry conscious of the constant urging by the Australian Wool Corporation and the Australian Wool Industry Conference for the Government to make a decision on the wool marketing report? Has there been pressure on the Minister and the Government from wool brokers to procrastinate on the issue? When can the industry expect the Government to honour its promise for a decision on the report? In short, when will the Government stop fooling the wool industry around and make up its mind on this vital issue? 
-This debate, which is known as the estimates debate, is a debate about the expenditure of money by the Department of Primary Industry and about the realm of this Department in the administration of Australia's agricultural industries and I hope it will be an interesting one. The Budget of course provided little relief especially to those industries suffering depressed markets. During the last election the Australian farmers were told that the Labor Government had virtually ruined agriculture. We were led to believe that the election of a Liberal-Country Party Government would see the dawning of a new era. Of course we can now see how worthless this election propaganda was. Let me recount just a couple of items which were fundamental promises by the former Opposition, now the Government, during the election campaign. It promised a national rural bank. We have heard no more of it since those cynical days. It promised a scheme to lease farms to young farmers. Again that was forgotten in the flurry of the election campaign. It also promised long term loans to fishermen. That disappeared from the pages of the Australian Press and reports in the Australian Parliament. Other promises included the appointment of more agricultural attaches; tax incentives to farmers; animal quarantine stations; and an examination of the Australian Meat Board. I could go on and on with specific promises which this Government made when in Opposition and of course promptly ignored in the first Budget it has introduced. 
Let me deal with a couple of things this Government has done. One is the income equalisation deposit scheme. This is now hailed as the great savings scheme for Australian rural enterprise. Under this scheme a farmer buys bonds in periods of high incomes and cashes bonds in a future period, presumably one of low income. While the scheme does have some merit, I believe, in assisting long term income equalisation it is useless as a means of assisting farmers during this period of depressed returns. Most farmers of course have no money to invest in bonds. The current unattractiveness of the scheme is emphasised by the fact that revenue foregone in 1976-77 is estimated at a meagre $2m. So all it is costing the Government in revenue for this great income equalisation scheme is a lousy $2m in this financial year. 
Let me deal with the wool industry. We have heard much about how bad the Labor Party was, but where does the Government stand on this issue? Labor, during its tenure of office, introduced the wool reserve price scheme which has now re-established the Australian wool industry. Previous Liberal-Country Party governments had failed to do so. In June 1974 average prices for 2 1 micron wool were down to 129c per kilo. The Labor Government outlaid $350m to prop up this scheme. If the scheme had failed one wonders whether the industry would have been able to repay the loan money. If it had not been able to repay the money the Government would have made a grant to it. What do we find now? This Government, proudly says it is increasing the wool floor price under this scheme from 250c to 275c per kilo, but it will cost the Government nothing for this year because it has a bet running for nothing. The price of wool is exceeding these figures. This year it will cost the Government nothing like the huge bet which the Labor Government had to take in its term in office. The Labor Party put up $3 50m. In these 2 major areas this Government is up for only $2m. 
Let me talk about carry-on finance for beef producers. This is also a continuation of a scheme which was implemented by the former Labor Government. Last financial year the 
Labor Government provided $ 19.6m in matching grants to the States to lend funds to beef producers at 4 per cent interest. All this Government has done in this Budget is to commit a maximum of $ 15m on a dollar for dollar basis with the States. As the financial position of most beef producers has worsened, because of continuing depressed markets and drought, since the new Government came to power, this allocation is miserly in the extreme. Let me refer to rural reconstruction. Again, this is a continuation of Labor's scheme. Up to December 1976 the Labor Government had committed $30m but this year the present Government has committed only $27m. With inflation running at 12 per cent this Government would have had to spend $34m even to maintain the dollar value of the Labor Government's commitment. Again at a time when reconstruction is needed in some of the depressed sectors of rural industry it is not forthcoming. 
I turn to fertilisers. Without warning the Government has decided to phase out the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty over a period of 3 years. It has broken a specific promise to industry. Of course the sugar and the fruit industries are the ones most affected by the phasing out of this bounty. Yet the superphosphate bounty was reintroduced. When one looks at the number of Cabinet Ministers who were recipients of the superphosphate bounty one can understand why the Government is phasing out the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty- none of them use nitrogen fertilisersand has reintroduced the superphosphate bounty. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)-  all Cabinet Ministersare all recipients of the superphosphate bounty. The sugar producers in north Queensland are having their bounty phased out. According to this Government it is all right to phase out the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty but it is not all right to phase out the superposphate subsidy. 
Let me deal with the dairy industry which of course is in serious trouble. In the Budget there is provision for only $ 14.5m to continue Labor's dairy adjustment program. Last year the Labor Government gave the program $ 18.7m. With inflation running at 12 per cent, even to maintain the dollar value of the Labor Government's commitment this Government should have outlaid $21m as against the $14.5m it has allocated to an industry where thousands of farmers are leaving their farms, where farmers' families are dismayed and distressed. 
After years of senseless Country Party policies, putting $773m into the dairy bounty payments over 30 years, it can be seen that absolutely nothing was done to solve the major problem of the Australian dairy industry, that is, to adjust production to realistic domestic and overseas demands. It was only when Labor phased out the dairy bounty and introduced a reconstruction scheme that the dairy industry had a chance to rationalise itself. All that the Country Party dairy bounty did was drive up land prices and inequitably distribute the funds of the bounty to the wealthiest sections of the dairy industry. Had skim milk powder prices not declined on the world market, I believe that the reconstruction would have been painless. The drastic drop in price was unforeseen, but at least the Country Party has now paid the Labor Party the compliment of extending the dairy farm reconstruction scheme. The money it will pay out, miserly as it might be, at least pays lip service to the concept of reconstruction, rather than pursuing the foolish policy of trying to foster overproduction with stabilisation schemes, as has been done in the past. No matter where one looks, it is obvious that the Country Party believes it has the rural vote in the bag, and I think that in some respects the same thing can be said of the Liberal Party. 
I think it is worth while to say a few words about the leaders of some of the farmer organisations in Australia. Had this Budget been a Labor budget it would not have been welcomed in the way this Budget has been welcomed. There would have been blatant condemnation. I believe that ordinary Australian farmers would do well to examine and question the attitude of some of their more vocal farm organisation leaders. Farmers really do have to ask themselves whether their welfare and their future have been discounted by their organisation leaders in the interests of Country Party politics. The public statements of farmer organisation leaders should not be an apologia for Country Party policy but should reflect the interests and the aspirations of the people the Party is supposed to represent. Farmers would do well to look critically at what this Government has done and to analyse the promises it made before it was elected. 
It is quite obvious that the Country Party now sees its major interests lying with the mineral industry. It thinks it has the rural vote sewn up. It believes it has sufficiently squeezed Labor out of the political reckoning in the countryside to a degree which allows  Mr Anthony  and  Mr Sinclair  to discount the real needs of the Australian rural areas and the real needs of Australian farmers. In its 10 months of office the Country Party has shown that it can no longer be trusted to manage the fortunes of the Australian rural dweller and the Australian rural producer. Its statements in opposition and its constant ranting and raving have shown little result in government. It is time the Australian farmer woke up to himself. It is time for him to assess the integrity of Australian political parties and Australian political leaders and understand clearly who is genuinely concerned about him and who is not. 

 -Mr Speaker, the last election campaign - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the business of the day be called on. 

 -Mr Speaker, when the last election campaign was on - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
-I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Blaxland moving a motion relating to the Government's failure to establish a definite trade relationship with the Government of the United States and the limiting effect of this failure upon access to the United States domestic market for Australian beef. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Will the Government accede to the request of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation to pay a first advance on the 1976-77 wheat crop of $65 per tonne or about $1.80 per bushel? Will the Government make a prompt decision on this matter in order to enable wheatgrowers, many of whom are facing greatly reduced incomes, to plan their financial needs for the next year? 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Would the Government look at the role of the Australian Industry Development Corporation in respect of both its appointment of a receiver to the Poseidon company and its approach to the international market for a loan raising in Australian dollars? Is the Government concerned that the AIDC, while acting legally, has nevertheless jeopardised Australia's reputation by issuing a prospectus which failed to indicate that its major investment- its $24m in Poseidon- was in financial trouble? Could the Government ascertain whether the AIDC has in fact been pumping $250,000 a week into Poseidon to keep it afloat through the period of the loan raising? 
-The purpose of the New South Wales (Namoi River Weirs) Bill is to provide assistance by way of a non-repayable grant to the Government of New South Wales towards the cost of constructing weirs and associated works at Wee Waa in the north-west of the State. The level of assistance by way of the grant will be $lm in 1976-77 and up to $2m for the completion of the project. The weirs which will be situated on the Namoi River are to be constructed for irrigation of land in the Namoi Valley. Much of the project has been completed. The Mollee and Gunidgera weirs are almost complete but for some minor works. Next year construction will begin on the  Weeta weir and this work should be completed by the end of the year. 
The system of weirs will go a long way towards the reduction of water losses by further controlling releases from the Keepit Dam and as a consequence will reduce pumping costs to farmers in the region by the creation of pumping pools. The Wee Waa district has developed substantially in the last decade. Cotton, oil seeds and other grains are grown in the district and the construction of these weirs should increase the capacity of the district substantially. The weir system, which will cost somewhere in the vicinity of $5. 5m, will be sufficient to irrigate an area of about 2500 hectares. The former Labor Government was to introduce legislation similar to this to authorise the granting of up to $2m following a commitment made by the previous Government in 1972. Of course the dismissal of that Labor Government last year precluded that happening. 
There have been a number of issues which have delayed a final agreement on the measure but this legislation will contribute substantially to the cost of the project. The Commonwealth over the last few years has been giving an increasing amount of money towards irrigation and flood mitigation schemes. It seems both major parties are committed to assist the States in this way. I think this is a healthy development. For those who are interested the details of the specific works covered by this legislation are listed in the Schedule to the Bill. It is not necessary that I should recount them at this time. However, I should make it clear that the Opposition supports the measure and hopes that the project will reach completion on schedule. 
-The Opposition opposes this legislation. It does so primarily because the Government has not announced its intention to introduce a tax measure as a substitute for the present coal export duty. In my Press statement following the Budget I said that whilst the present levy was indiscriminate and unfair in operating across the board on all coal company profits, the industry was healthy enough to sustain a selective tax to increase the return to the Australian people. The Government, by announcing the phasing out of the levy with the reduction of $1.50 per tonne this financial year, has not only met its stated objective of providing an impetus for new coal projects but also has gone beyond that to return a huge amount of revenue to the most profitable section of the Australian extractive industry. 
It would have been possible for the Government to amend the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Act to lift the imposition of the levy on new projects but it has rejected this course by phasing out the levy- on all projects, existing or otherwise. The Bill will reduce the export duty on high quality coking coal from $6 a tonne to $4.50 a tonne and reduce the export duty on other coal from $2 to $1.50 per tonne. The legislation is effective from 17 August 1976. 
The Budget documents reveal that under the provisions of the existing Act the actual revenue in 1975-76 was $1 1 1.6m and it estimates that the 1976-77 collection will be $ 1 12m. Had the existing rates of duty applied, revenue from the levy on all coal exports for 1976-77 was estimated at about $145m, or $33m more than will now be collected. Of course company profits will be inflated by the amount of revenue forgone and normal company tax will apply to these profits. But with the generous new write-off provisions announced in the Budget, some companies with expansion programs will pay little extra in tax as much of the tax will be deferred for a considerable period. 
The original legislation was introduced by the former Treasurer in 1975. At that time the then Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  pointed out that since the Labor Government had taken office, the price of Queensland coal had increased from $A1 1.26 to $A37 per tonne. He went on to point out that export prices were renegotiated under the Labor Government on an annual basis and payments were provided in Australian dollars. He pointed out that contracts were renegotiated by the good graces of the Japanese steel mills following representations by the then Australian Labor Government. As an aside I might say I was interested to read this week where the Department of National Resources has communicated to the coal companies in Australia the Government's desire to retain annual renegotiation of coal contracts with Japan. The Japanese steel mills are seeking a three year contract period. It is interesting to observe how much the present Government's policy has changed from its stated policy when in opposition. 
In 1975 the coking coal industry netted profits of approximately $500m and sections of the industry, particularly some Queensland producers, were well able to withstand the impost of this tax. It is true that the tax did not discriminate as to the profit of companies and to that extent I believe a profits related tax is now applicable. Need I say the original tax, an exclusive Treasury invention, was ill conceived and hastily forced upon the former Government as a revenue raising measure. 
The other undesirable feature of the present tax is that it can be manipulated by the blending of higher grade coals with coals of a lower carbon content so that the blend would be in the vicinity of 84.5 per cent of carbon content, which being below the 85 per cent stipulated by the legislation meant that some producers were paying only the $2 levy when others in excess of the 85 per cent were paying the $6 levy. Clearly the Government should be turning its attention to a profits related tax to deal with companies which are presently highly profitable. 
The other compelling reason for giving attention to a new tax mechanism of this type is the recommendations by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on crude oil pricing dealing with a royalty tax or a resources renttype tax which could be superimposed upon the existing company tax system. The Government should be considering a tax mechanism which deals not only with any windfalls which may accrue to the Bass Stait and other oil producers but also to some of the North Queensland coal producers, particularly Utah Development Corporation, which is now the most profitable company in Australia and which recently has been given  gratis  a 50 per cent increase in its orebody by the 
Queensland Government with export approval by the present Federal Government on that additional export potential. 
The main companies affected by the $6 a tonne levy are from the Bowen Basin: 
Utah Development Corp- 89.2 per cent owned by Utah International Inc. of United States of America. 
Central Queensland Coal Associates- 85 per cent owned by Utah Development Corporation, 15 per cent owned by Mit.suibishi Development Company. 
Thiess Bros Pty Ltd- an Australian company. 
Collinsville Coal Pty Ltd-60 per cent owned by Mt Isa Mines and 40 per cent by Wood Hall Ltd, which is controlled by Wood Hall Trust Ltd (UK). from New South Wales: 
Bellambi Coal Company- 65 per cent owned by Consolidated Goldfields of United Kingdom.  (0  Kembla Coal and Coke Pty Ltd-50 per cent owned by Australian Mining and Smelting. Conzinc Riotinto of Australia owns 73.6 per cent of this company; North Broken Hill Ltd and Broken Hill South Ltd own the remaining 50 per cent. 
Huntley Collieries Pty Ltd owned by the Electricity Commission of New South Wales. 
Austin and Butta Ltd- 32 per cent owned by Brascan Resources Ltd of Canada, 4.6 per cent by Marubena Iida Co. Ltd and 4.6 per cent by Mitsuibishi Chemical Industries, both of Japan. 
Clutha Development Pty Ltd- this company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Universe Tankships Inc. of Liberia through their Australian holding company, Wollclift Pty Ltd. 
At first glance it could be assumed that the $6 a tonne levy would be just an increase in production costs which the companies should have been able to absorb as the price they receive for their coal is now around $US53 per tonne instead of the mid- 1974 price of around $US30 per tonne. However, this is not the case for all the companies involved. 
Production from Utah Development Corporation and Central Queensland Associates represented 46.5 per cent of the $32m total exports for the last financial year. These two companies' exports of 15.1 million tonnes is 81.8 per cent of all Queensland coal export. It is therefore obvious that Utah Development Corporation and Central Queensland Coal Associates were meant to pay a large proportion of the revenue from the levy. Last year Utah Development Corporation's prospects for profit were $ 1 60m. From this point of view the levy has been operating successfully as Utah Development Corporation's profit after tax and levy for the year ended October 1975 was just over $10Om However, the levy only operated for  Vh  months before the end of the Corporation's financial year. Assuming the 1975 production rate, UDC will have an equivalent profit in 1976 of about $140m, which is slightly above $A10 per tonne profit for coal production even if the Norwich Park mine is excluded. With the change in the levy rates now applying under the phase out, this figure of course will be different. However, had the levy been completely lifted, UDC's after- tax profit for 1976 would be in excess of $A185m, which is well in excess of any other corporate enterprise in Australia. The levy thus will have a substantial effect on the rate of return on funds employed by UDC. Nonetheless, despite the impact of the levy the rate of return for the company would still have prospects of being high, expected to be approximately 32 per cent return after tax. 
Although not as efficient as the UDC- Central Queensland Coal Associates operations, the other two Queensland collieries affected, Thiess and Collinsvale, should have after-tax and levy profits above $A5 per tonne. The major companies which appear to be feeling the effects of the levy are the southern New South Wales collieries such as Bellambi Coal Company Limited and other New South Wales mines. In the half yearly report of this company, released on 24 February, consolidated operating profit was given as $A426,000, down 14.2 per cent on the equivalent period 12 months previously. This after-tax and levy profit corresponds to a profit of slightly in excess of SA1.80 per tonne. Two factors are given for the downturn in profit; industrial disturbances reduced output by 40 per cent; and $l.lm was paid to the Government under the levy. From inquiries made to the South Coast collieries, these figures are somewhat standard for the area. This lack of profit is given as the major reason for a lack of capital investment in development by these collieries. The differences between Bowen Basin and South Coast collieries is not efficiency of operation. The coal exported from Queensland is mostly extracted by open-cut methods and hence is capital intensive. Almost all coal, and in particular South Coast coal, from New South Wales is mined by traditional underground techniques which are labour intensive. The operating costs of the underground mines are considerably higher than open cut operations, hence while the prices received are uniform the profits are considerably lower. 
I will now turn to the $2 per tonne levy which is applicable to coal with a carbon content below 85 per cent. This affects mostly steaming coal. Thiess Peabody Mitsui, which is a North Queensland Bowen Basin colliery, is one exporting colliery which is paying the $2 per tonne levy. This colliery produces coking coal in underground and open-cut operations at both Kianga and Moura. I was pleased last week to hear that the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd has taken up the Peabody holding in this consortium which was formerly held by Kennecott of the United States. Kennecott was forced to divest itself of its holding under the United States anti-trust legislation. It is worth recalling that the former Minister for Minerals and Energy, the  Hon.  R. F. X. Connor, made it clear that the former Australian Government would require Peabody Kennecott to sell its Queensland interests to a suitable Australian company or consortium and that the Government would not tolerate the interest being sold as part of a world package deal. It is again another compliment to the former Minister that this situation has come to pass. 
Thiess Peabody Mitsui have blended Kianga coals with the higher grade Moura coals to give a carbon content in the blend of 84.7 per cent which, being below the 85 per cent, attracts only the $2 levy. The profit margin per tonne exported by Thiess Peabody Mitsui is similar to that obtained by Utah Development Corporation, that is, in excess of $A10 per tonne. This will give Thiess Peabody Mitsui in excess of $A40m after tax and levy profit in a full year. However, I believe it is true that if Thiess Peabody Mitsui was placed in the position of paying $6 a tonne- in other words, if it was unable to reduce its carbon content below 85 per cent- over 70 per cent of the surplus remaining after all operating costs were deducted would disappear in taxes; of this I am quite certain. This is perhaps one of the costs which highlights the indiscriminate nature of the present levy. I think we generally accept that fact. 
The 3 new major Queensland coal projects which will probably proceed are Norwick Park owned by Utah, Nebo which has always been owned by Thiess Peabody Mitsui which is the consortium into which BHP has now bought and 
Hail Creek which will be undertaken by Hail Creek Associates, a consortium of large companies. In this respect in the last couple of yean we have seen much 'to-ing' and 'fro-ing' by large companies moving into and out of this consortium. All of these projects would under present legislation attract the $6 a tonne levy. Nebo and Hail Creek would be open cut operations initially but ultimately would be underground. Norwick Park would be an open-cut strip mine, the same as Blackwater, Saraji and all the other Utah mines in the Bowen Basin. The full impost in the early days of these projects would be a very heavy burden for them to carry. With capital expenditures of between $2 50m and $450m a project and financing costs with high rates of interest, the imposition of the present levy could be too much for the projects to stand or to carry. However, it would be reasonable to assume that the companies should pay more than just company tax when the projects have been operating long enough to write off their capital expenditure costs and when they start producing large profits. After all, the deposits were given to these companies by the State to be mined and exported and it is therefore reasonable that they not be treated for tax purposes in the same way as, say, a manufacturing business which is not being given anything by the State at all. 
The Government must now begin to think, I believe, of an additional profits related tax. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  during a debate on an urgency motion in this House last week, poured scorn on the concept I have mentioned of a profits related tax to deal with windfall situations. The Government will be quite negligent if it does not fully investigate this proposal. The other reason why such a tax is desirable is the very high proportion of foreign ownership in the coal industry. In Queensland, before the AMP acquisition of a share of Utah, 85 per cent of black coal production was controlled by overseas companies. This picture will have changed only by a few percentage points due to the AMP and BHP acquisitions. By contrast, in New South Wales 85 per cent of the black coal production is in Australian hands. Perhaps more of it might have been if the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fife)  had not disposed of State coal mines to international companies. 
Coal can be mined underground up to depths of 2000 feet. The cheapest and most highly profitable coal mining is by open-cut or strip mining methods. Only 21 per cent of Queensland's massive coal reserves can be won by open-cut methods and the remaining 79 per cent by underground mining. The disturbing feature of the Queensland coal picture is that foreign companies have been allowed to dominate Queensland's coal mining and are extracting over 80 per cent of the coal produced by opencut methods. Whilst it is reasonable to allow a company to develop a new coal area to recoup its initial outlay by open-cut methods, the time has long since arrived in Queensland when underground mining must be seriously considered. Strip rnining poses huge problems to future underground mining, particularly in Queensland. Because of the soft roof of underground mines in the Bowen Basin district, compared with, say, New South Wales mines, the blasting of the exposed coal seam to break up the material for transport by front end loaders has the effect of shattering what would be the roof of an underground operation below the strip. This can mean that very valuable reserves of high quality coking coal would be left languishing for ever because their extraction would be uneconomic. 
As well as this the open cut mines, particularly the mines of Utah Mining Aust. Ltd, have miles of overburden mounded up along the seams. I am told only a modest deposit has been left with the Queensland Government by Utah to guarantee the reclamation and restoration of these areas. It is because reclamation costs far outstrip any financial obligations imposed on Utah by the Queensland Government that it is not inconceivable that these mountains of overburden will be left in perpetuity. The Queensland Government should be much more vigilant about requiring companies that have been given generous orebodies to develop, to be decent enough to restore the areas from which they have extracted this vast wealth. 
By and large the Australian coal industry has a bright future. Australia's exports of coking coal, particularly to Japan, will increase considerably over the next decade. With recovery now fairly evident in the Japanese economy, she is already demanding greater import tonnages of coking coal. Australia is in a convenient position of being in close proximity to Japan and having the benefit of freight costs which are more than competitive with other, parts of the world. At the moment Australia is exporting about 37 per cent of Japan's total coking coal requirements. This represents about 81 per cent of Australian production. In 1975 the former Labor Minister for Minerals and Energy negotiated an arrangement with Nippon Steel Corporation for the continuation of the growth of coking coal exports to Japan of the order of 44 to 49 million tonnes per annum commencing in 1980. 
At the moment Australia's coal exports total 32 million tonnes. Most of the increased tonnage will be contributed from major new coal projects in Queensland and a growing percentage from New South Wales. Norwich Park has a planned capacity of 4 300 000 tonnes and will meet most of the new export tonnages from Queensland. Ultimately, Nebo will share with Norwich Park the growth in Queensland production. However, the New South Wales coal mines will also improve their share of the export picture. It is quite likely that a very large proportion of the 12 to 13 million additional tonnes per annum that will go to Japan will some from New South Wales coal mines. Overall the position of the coal mining industry looks healthy and it is on this basis that I assert what I said at the beginning of this speech. That is, that the industry can afford to contribute more than it pays in simple company tax to the Australian people. It is after all the people's resources which these companies have been given, generously to mine and export and there must be an increment to the national wealth from this activity. 
In conclusion I urge the Government to consider the establishment of a profits related tax which will fairly treat this industry in the raising of revenue, will discriminate as to the capacity of companies to pay, but most of all will be the kind of tax that would be applicable to other elements of the extractive industries. Consideration of such a tax is long overdue in Australia. It falls to this Government to do something about it. 
I ask the Treasurer Has the Government talked to the Goldsworthy consortium about the percentage of Australian equity in its proposed Area C iron ore project in Western Australia? If so, has the Government approved the proposed equity arrangements? Has the case been before the Foreign Investment Review Board? If so, what was the Board's decision and the reasons for the decision? Lastly, when can I expect an answer to the question I asked without notice 6 weeks ago concerning the 3 per cent Nippon steel purchase of Robe River to which the Minister promised me a reply? 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. The purpose of the Bill is to extend the fruit growing reconstruction scheme until 31 December 1976 by the provision of up to $ lm to assist in the pulling of canning fruit trees in the States of Victoria and South Australia. This scheme, which began in 1972, complements the rural reconstruction scheme inasmuch as it is peculiar to the horticultural industries. The basic thrust of the scheme is to assist the fruit growers in financial difficulties either to extricate themselves from the industry completely or partially to pull trees on properties which may become viable if some trees were removed and the land put to alternate use. The scheme offers assistance by way of a loan which is converted to a grant after 5 years, conditional upon the farmer not replacing fruit trees during the 5-year period. The scheme is applicable only to fresh pears, apples, canning peaches and canning apricot trees. The Bill relates only to the deciduous fruit industry. 
While the Opposition welcomes continued support for primary industry, particularly those industries hard hit by diminishing markets and cost pressures, the Opposition nevertheless points out that the tree pull scheme for deciduous fruit will not be extended beyond the end of 1976. This decision could cause severe hardship if markets for canned fruit do not improve and at the moment this seems unlikely. The indications are that domestic sales are sluggish at around the 3 million basic carton level. The cause of this is the resistance to a price tag of 65c. 
The Bill is in itself an admission by the Country Party of its bankruptcy in dealing with the problems of primary industry in general and the horticultural industry in particular. The tree pull scheme was intended to provide funds for deciduous fruit growers to move into other areas of primary production. But, of course, we have heard nothing of this from the Country Party. Apparently these growers now have to pull their trees and politely and quietly move onto die dole. With great promises during the election campaign, which fostered high expectations for the growers in this industry, the Government has produced just an extension of a patch and fill scheme which will end at the end of this year. 
For instance, what can the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  who is sitting in the House tonight, offer his factory workers and fruit growers. Perhaps he can offer them a mere referral of the repayments on their loans. That is not a policy. It is just agonising their lives from one year to the next. The Government has given them absolutely no hope for the future. Not only is there no hope but also this scheme operates in direct opposition to the apple and pear stabilisation scheme. This is another fruit growing scheme which, on the one hand, encourages apple and pear growers to produce fruit because it guarantees a payment of* $2 a bushel, yet the fruit growing reconstruction scheme encourages growers to pull out their trees. So one scheme conflicts with the aims of the other. The real issue is, of course, that a policy which looks purely at reconstruction from a horticultural standpoint is bound to fail. 
Australia needs a combination of a reconstruction policy based on the substitution of other forms of employment such as secondary industry, other than avenues of exclusively agricultural production. A combination of various industries in the regional areas where fruit growing takes place would provide alternative employment. It is not possible to solve the problems of an area engaged in the fruit growing of apples and pears because of the regional factors involved, such as in the Goulburn Valley in Victoria, Riverland in South Australia and Manjimup in Western Australia. 
The Government, of course, hails as a great advantage the fact that farmers are allowed to collect the dole without the work test. This is a great achievement for a Party which professes to represent rural interests. What does it matter if the farmers can collect the dole? It does not mean that their families or their businesses will survive or that there will be prosperity for their families. The plain fact of the matter is that Country Party policy over the years has done nothing to discourage production in market areas with diminishing demands so that production has been maintained by stabilisation schemes that have been to the detriment of the industry and at the expense of the taxpayer. 
The Australian Labor Party, on the other hand, is concerned about the welfare of the people and the families involved in this section of the horticultural industry. It recognises that piecemeal reconstruction schemes are not the answer to the problems of this industry. It regards many of the recommendations in the Industries Assistance Commission Report on fruit growing released in January this year as relevant to the problems of this industry and considers that these recommendations go right to the kernel of the problem. I list some of the proposals of the IAC. Its first major proposal was the establishment of a national reconstruction authority. Other proposals were for area reconstruction authorities, counselling services and finance. 
These are the mechanisms which the Government should be looking at if it genuinely has the interest of these people at hean. Of course, it does not. It uses them cynically to hold its Country Party seats in rural Australia. It has tried to persuade rural dwellers for years that the Labor Party does not have their best interests at heart. Behind this very loose charge it rests upon its laurels. It has been the Australian Labor Party only which has made significant contributions to the long term welfare of Australian agriculture. One of these contributions was the wool reserve price scheme, which has again refurbished the Australian wool industry. In addition, the wheat stabilisation scheme was introduced many years ago to eliminate the sinusoidal peaks and troughs out of the growers' returns in this industry which have plagued this scheme, of course, almost since its inception. 
I refer also to the recent dairy farm reconstruction scheme, an ambitious $26m project introduced in the days of the former Labor Government. When have we seen the Country Party embark upon ambitious schemes of this nature? The government will retain the wool reserve price scheme, as has been stated in the Budget. This is easy while the market is ahead of the reserve price. It was not easy for the former Labor Government when the difference was $320m. It was a $320m punt. At the moment, the Government is taking no punt on the reserve price system and it rejected the pleas for a reserve price system when it was last in government. We had to introduce a scheme when wool prices were around 1 1 9c per kilo. We guaranteed 250c per kilo. And the same is the case for fruit growing. The Labor Party believes there has to be a completely new approach to reconstruction if it is to take place in a meaningful and humane way. The communities depend upon adequate adjustment to help more fruit growers rationalise their properties. 
Price stabilisation support schemes will not help in the longer term. Extensions to cover the 1976 and 1977 crops were recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission to limit dislocation in these industries while alternative measures were being considered and adopted. At the same time, the extension of the stabilisation schemes slowed down the rate of adjustment while conditions in the economy were such as practically to guarantee that alternative employment would not be available to former fruit growers. Reconstruction of this industry is not easy. That is obvious. It is intrinsically a labour intensive industry and the small area of land per farm in most of the fruit growing industries severely inhibits the scope for adjustments into other avenues of farming. As well as this, because fruit is sensitive to climate, soil and the availability of water and markets, the industry has concentrated itself in specific areas in Australia. Some areas are highly export orientated while others exist primarily on domestic demand. 
While many problems have faced fruit growers in the areas where their industry is dependent upon export markets, other welfare problems have become evident in non-export areas due to the fact that stabilisation schemes distort the pattern of production. We then see a huge flood of fruit into other market areas. For instance, Batlow and Orange in New South Wales and the granite belt in Queensland have been dramatically affected by the consequences of the Tasmanian fruit equalisation scheme. Perhaps the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  and the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Gillard)  can explain to their growers why they are being battered to death commercially in the interests of the Government Parties' politicking in Tasmania. In essence the Government has not thought seriously about fruit growing reconstruction. This Bill is an easy resort to a patch and fill operation for a mere $lm addition to the scheme affecting only 2 States. It is, as I said earlier, another demonstration of the inadequacies of the Country Party's agricultural policy, or to be more accurate the Country Party's agricultural non-policy. The Opposition does not oppose the legislation because it does help some producers in these fruit growing areas. However, it deplores the manner in which the Government has deceived these people and the way in which it plays so cynically with the lives of growers. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Broadcasting and Television Act to exclude present and future newspaper investment from radio and television holdings. Clause 2 of the Bill seeks to amend the principal Broadcasting and Television Act in Division 2 of Part 4 with the insertion: 
The Parliament approves the principle that it is undesirable that a person who has, either directly or indirectly, a substantial financial interest in a newspaper, should also have, either directly or indirectly, a financial interest in a commercial broadcasting station, and regulations may be made in this Act to give effect to that principle. 
The same words would also be inserted in Division 3 of Part 4 of the principal Act for Section 92KA. The legislation seeks to come to terms with the undesirable concentration of ownership of the Australian electronic media in the hands of newspaper monopolies. The present provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act allow 3 groups of companies to dominate the Australian media to an extent that would not be tolerated in countries comparable with Australia. These groups are the John Fairfax group, the Herald and Weekly Times group and the Murdoch group. 
The John Fairfax group controls 4 daily newspapers, the  Sydney Morning Herald,  the Sydney  Sun,  the  Australian Financial Review  and the  Canberra Times,  as well as a range of country newspapers such as the  Newcastle Morning Herald,  the  Newcastle Sun  and the Wollongong  Daily Mercury.  It also controls numerous weekly publications. This group controls a 3- station television network in Sydney, Brisbane and Canberra and directly owns 6 radio stations in the capital cities along with a spate of radio stations it controls through interlocking company structures. 
The second group- Herald and Weekly Times group- controls 8 daily newspapers in every city but Sydney and controls S television stations, one in every major city but Sydney, along with a network of 14 directly owned radio stations and others it controls again through interlocking companies. The News Limited group, or better known as the Murdoch group, operates one national daily newspaper plus S daily metropolitan newspapers, a number of weekly specialist publications and daily country newspapers. It owns two television stations, one in Adelaide and one in Wollongong. 
The other group which requires a mention is the Consolidated Press/Packer group which has television stations and though it does not own any daily newspapers, nevertheless operates IS country newspapers in significant country towns. This group also operates television stations in Melbourne and Sydney, the 2 largest cities in Australia and S radio stations, two of which are in capital cities. The incestuous nature of the interlocking companies and directorships provides this small clique of proprietors with perhaps the most effective grip on the instruments of a national media that could be witnessed in any part of the western world. Of course it should never have been allowed to occur. But no positive moves have been made by any government to break up the multi-media combinations. No serious attempt has yet been undertaken. 
What also makes the situation frightening is that most of the proprietors who operate these groups share a common social background and in political terms share a common point of view. This present monopolisation of the media is not a reflection of the pattern of ownership in the past. 
It is worth recounting that in 1 903 there were 2 1 capital city daily newspapers owned by 17 different proprietors. By 1950 there were 15 newspapers owned by 10 proprietors. Today there are 16 daily newspapers owned by 3 proprietors. Henry Mayer, in his  Reader of Australian Politics  of 1972, shows the proportion of the total circulation in Australia going to the 4 major groupings which in those days included the Packer interests in the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  and the  Sunday Telegraph.  These newspapers, of course, now have been sold to the Murdoch group. The Melbourne  Herald  group controls 53.2 per cent of the total national circulation, Fairfax 22.33 per cent, Murdoch 15.89 per cent and the Packer interests when they held the Sydney daily newspapers 8.06 per cent. The Packer interests could now be added to the Murdoch intersts which would bring the News Ltd figures to 23.95 per cent of the national circulation. How any nation can be complacent about these kind of figures is beyond me. 
Looking at the circulation figures of the capital city newspapers controlled by the groupings on a city by city basis, Fairfax controls 47 per cent of circulation in Sydney, 14.4 per cent in Melbourne, and 87 per cent in Canberra. Since then the Fairfax organisation has bought controlling interests in the Melbourne  Age  which would have increased significantly the Melbourne figure. The Melbourne  Herald  controls 82.7 per cent in Melbourne, 98.5 per cent in Perth, 98.1 per cent in Hobart, 93.5 per cent in Brisbane and 53.8 per cent in Adelaide. Murdoch controls 45.6 per cent in Adelaide, 43 per cent in Sydney, 2.8 per cent in Melbourne, 2.4 per cent in Brisbane and some small percentage in Hobart and Perth. The proportion of the State figures attributable to the national newspaper the  Australian  owned by News Limited is difficult to obtain and therefore the Murdoch interest in Perth and Hobart is difficult to assess. However, the degree of concentration is obviously beyond acceptable limits for all of these groupings. 
Naturally, with the proliferation of broadcasting and television the control in this area went into much the same hands as I demonstrated with respect to newspapers. Therefore a large proportion of news dissemination and digestion comes from these massive media groupings. This stranglehold of course has side effects upon the way in which news is written and programs presented. Because of the limited opportunities for employment there is the constant yet subtle pressure on editorial staff and journalists to fall into line with the views of the proprietors. Persistent bouts of independence of view can guarantee that employment for a journalist is difficult to come by. Hence the easy resort to a story that will not provoke a response from the management. A tight grouping of media companies can ensure that issues are discussed on their terms and on their priorities, particularly in respect of important political debate. What is objectionable is the arbitrary nature of the power which is available to proprietors- whether it is used or not- to fix the priorities on public issues. This is the worrying thing. The Broadcasting and Television Act is deficient in that it does nothing to come to terms with this problem. 
The only hedge available against proprietorial power is the libel laws and even here the proprietors constantly prevail upon governments to amend these, of course with the intention of easing the burden upon the media companies. Journalists themselves have not been able in an organised way to make any inroads into powers of proprietors. The Australian Journalists Association, which is the major union involved with the Press, has had little or no success in securing structural change in the Australian media. The Association was vocal during the last national election campaign in Australia when proprietors were directing journalists to frame stories in the direction of their own political bias. Yet even this did not have any significant effect upon the unbalanced tirade that on that occasion the Labor Party had to suffer at the hands of the proprietors. 
It is a fact that because the media instruments are concentrated in so few hands the structural issue so rarely arises for public debate in Australia. It has never been a matter of urgent debate within the Australian community. Even organised labour has tolerated some disgraceful forays against it by the media conglomerates without the massive retaliation of which it is capable. Unions have on many occasions remained silent while their membership has churned out heavily biased material designed to jeopardise the advancement of organised labour goals, particularly during the crucial days of some election campaigns. Perhaps a greater sense on the part of unions of the arbitrary nature of the powers of proprietors and of the stifling structure of the private media may serve to galvanise the union movement into some kind of organised campaign to break the iron grip these few executives have upon public opinion. 
Of course the passage of this legislation would go a long way towards that objective. At least holdings in the electronic media would be diversified and this, I believe, would have a desirable impact in as much that a broader range of issue priorities would be in evidence and the slant of reporting more balanced. Naturally this proposition will be vigorously opposed by the proprietors, particularly as in many cases the earnings from radio and television subsidise the flagging commercial performance of daily newspapers. It would be interesting to know how many metropolitan dailies could stand commercially on their own without some subsidisation. 
Another aspect which arises from the concentration of ownership in the private media is the standard of programming on Australian private television. The resources of newspaper monopolies in the days before television, which included substantial radio holdings, allowed the 4 major groupings to considerably influence the government of the day as to the direction Australian television should take. The propensity was for the government to structure television on basically the same pattern that existed in radio, that is, with the Australian Broadcasting Commission holding being the only government media operator and holding about the same proportion of television licences as it did in radio. The decision to move towards a substantial proportion of private television ownership has, I believe, mitigated against the quality of viewing and programming which could have been available to the Australian community. 
Because of the demands of commercial viability the public is saturated with television advertising, and radio advertising for that matter, and a high proportion of cheap television production. The need to make money is forever present with the executives of the major groupings and therefore television programs are slanted towards that end rather than an alternative which could be more beneficial to the community at large. When one has the experience of British and European television, one is left with the distinct impression that the standard of Australian commercial television is poor by comparison, and I believe much of this can be laid at the door of its commercial nature. 
If the concentration of private media ownership in radio had not been allowed to develop in earlier days, it is quite likely that the direction of television development may have been towards more government involvement and less private involvement. But of course the persuasive influence of the proprietors particularly on the Menzies Government in the early 1960s would no doubt have turned the tide in the direction television has now taken. Still, this is one egg that can be unscrambled. Determination on the part of the Parliament and the Government could come to terms with this problem. 
Other countries have been faced with a similar situation. The American Congress empowered the Federal Communications Commission in the United States of America in 1970 to regulate the broadcasting media in order to protect the public interest and proposed new drastic multiple ownership rules designed to affect the wholesale re-, alignment of the communications industry. Development of this proposal after much litigation in the United States Supreme Court now represents a significant development in communication law and now provides the Federal Communications Commission with rules directly affecting newspaper interests. The Commission, since 1970, has broken up a number of major multi-media combinations with divestiture orders and has adopted prospective rules barring any future newspaper interest in broadcasting and television stations in the same market. As well as that the Commission has ruled that it is contrary to the public interest for a single network to control a broadcasting and television station in the same area. While the United States interests are peculiar to the United States, and different to ours, the principle nevertheless is worthy of adoption. 
Divestment must occur. In future, newspaper groupings should not be permitted to take over other groupings with holdings in radio and television. Nor should newspaper groupings be permitted to acquire any new radio and television licences. This Bill deals with these problems. Its carriage into law could be accompanied by an orderly program of divestment of the major groupings that would ensure that dislocation does not occur. This legislation is, I believe, long overdue. I urge honourable members to give it their most earnest consideration and support. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 
-The purpose of this Bill, the States Grants (Beef Industry) Amendment Bill, is to amend the States Grants (Beef Industry) Act 1975, legislation enacted by the former Labor Government, to enable the Commonwealth to provide up to $ 15m to match on a dollar for dollar basis State funds approved for lending in 1976-77 under the beef carry-on loans scheme. The scheme provides low interest carry-on finance to specialist beef producers with a sound asset structure who would be viable given a return to more normal beef market conditions. The words used in the introduction of this legislation must be a great let down to the beef industry of Australia- to those thousands of beef producers who thought great promise would be shown by the present LiberalCountry Party Government. After all of its extravagant election talk and all of the massive claims and promises throughout the election campaign the Government has finally got down to extending an existing Australian Labor Party scheme that was initiated in 1974. It might be worth while at this point to quote the words of the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  during those irresponsible days of the election campaign of last year and before it I refer firstly to an article in the  Australian  of 18 August of last year headed 'Sinclair puts plan to save beef industry', which reads: 
The program also calls for more carry-on finance for beef producers, claiming the present $39.6m government allocation is inadequate. 
The present Minister for Primary Industry claimed then that the Labor Government's scheme was inadequate; yet his Government is now putting up only $ 1 5m. The article continues: 
It is understood the Country Party wants at least S 100m lent to producers at 4 per cent interest with an initial 2-year interest moratorium. 
So much for the $ 100m and so much for how bad the $39.6m given by the Labor Government was when this Bill provides for the provision of only $15m. Let me quote again from another of the pearls of wisdom that fell from the lips of the present Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to a Press statement of 5 September, which reads: 'Beef crisis is a social and economic crisis', says Ian Sinclair. 'The time is rapidly passing for the Australian Government to take amon to relieve the position of the beef industry - 
Of course, it was the Labor Government which he said should be taking action- the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party,  Mr Sinclair,  said today. Speaking to a public meeting at Wan- garatta,  Mr Sinclair  said: "The economic problems facing the eef industry are generating grave social problems for the families of beef producers and their employees. These social problems will become more pronounced as long as the Government fails to act to assist the industry. The total failure to act will bring down on Australia not only an economic tragedy but also a widespread, lingering social tragedy. This basic fact needs to be recognised by the Government. Up until now the Labor Government has chosen to callously disregard the position of the beef industry and its problemseven though, only a few years ago, it was Australia's major export earning industry. 
One can see what hollow words they were when one looks at the legislation introduced by the Minister for Primary Industry during the 12 months in office of this Government. He was critical of the Labor Government, but he has done little even to match what that Government was prepared to do. I refer now to an article in the  Canberra Times  of 1 1 October of last year, which was just before the election, headed 'Beef industry dying '. It reads: 
The death warrant of the Australian beef industry would be signed unless the Government took action to assist the beef industry, the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party,  Mr Sinclair,  told a Queanbeyan-Canberra branch Graziers Association meeting . . . Assistance for the beef industry was urgently needed and long overdue. 
It says so much for the words of the National Country Party and so much for its interest in the great Australian beef industry that all it has now done is meekly introduce a BUI to enable the provision of $ 15m for a carry-on scheme initiated by the former Government. When one looks at the former Government's scheme one sees that it was for $ 19.5m and not $15m, that the $ 19.5m was at 4 per cent interest and that an additional $20m was provided on a commercial interest rate basis. So $39.5m was made available. The sum of $15,000 a year was provided for producers in Queensland and the Northern Territory, and $10,000 a year to those elsewhere. The Government has now brought those recommendations into this legislation. To all producers in the pastoral zone it is prepared to give $15,000 and to those elsewhere it is prepared to give $10,000 at an interest rate of not less than 4 per cent per annum. But the point is that the situation in the beef industry now is much worse than it was when the Labor Party was in office. Costs are higher and markets have not improved. In fact, the markets have been hit by the Canadian quotas and could feel the effects of United States quotas in the future. Let me again quote the Minister. A report in the Hobart  Mercury  of 26 September of last year reads: 
Australia 's agricultural marketing position overseas would improve dramatically under a Liberal-Country Party Government ...  Mr Ian  Sinclair said in Hobart yesterday. 
So much for that claim, because he was the Minister who trailed his coat and was successful in getting a quota imposed on Australian beef imports into Canada. What do we find? We find that this Minister's performance has led to a deterioration in the market situation for Australian beef overseas. 
I think it is probably opportune to put on the record what the Labor Government did for the industry lest there be any more of this double talk and, in fact, these irresponsible deceptions by the Minister. I will cite some of the things that the Labor Government did. I deal firstly with the Australian Government and State government concessional loans. The States Grants (Beef Industry) Act, to which I have already referred, provided for the provision of $ 19.6m to match State funds for the provision of carry-on loan finance to beef producers. An additional $600,000 was subsequently made available to Northern Territory producers. The loans were to be administered by the State rural reconstruction authorities. Persons eligible as specialist beef producers whose incomes were traditionally derived preponderantly from beef and who were judged as viable on the resumption of market recovery were also given carry-on funds. There was an interest rate of 4 per cent in all States except Queensland, where the State funds were at  2Vi  per cent for the first year, giving an overall average rate in that State of  3V*  per cent. No capital repayments were required in the first year and the first year's interest was capitalised. There was a maximum term of 7 years. There was a maximum loan of $10,000, except in respect of Queensland and the Northern Territory, where it was $15,000, and there was to be a review of loans after 12 months with a view to commencing normal service arrangements. That is not bad when one considers that this Government cannot match that record in any way. 
I refer now to specific Australian Government assistance under the Labor Government. I refer to the Development Bank loans. The Government decided in November 1974 to provide $20m to augment Development Bank funds to enable the Bank to broaden its lending to seriously affected beef producers. A further $8m was provided in the 1975-76 Budget. The funds were lent at commercial rates of interest. The Bank also used the funds to assist those producers preponderantly relying on cattle whose capital structures were seriously affected by trends in cattle prices but who, in the opinion of the Bank, would have remained viable. For instance, the Bank took over some burdensome short term debts and funded them in the longer term. That is an indication of what the Labor Government in fact did for the beef industry during its tenure of office. One can see from that how poorly the present Government has performed. As I said earlier, after all its extravagant election promises it has quietly slipped into the House this amendment to a piece of Labor Party legislation which provides for the provision of $ 15m to the beef industry. 
This Government has failed to do anything substantial about the plight of the Australian beef industry. The Government- particularly the Country Party section of it- has failed to honour its election promises and bring to fruition the promise it gave to the industry in those heady days during the election campaign. Instead of looking for new markets all that we find is that the Minister has gone overseas- to Canada in particular and the United States of Americaand bad mouthed the Australian beef producers to such an extent that the Canadian Government has been forced to put quotas upon the importation of Australian beef. Let me quote the Minister's words in Ottawa as reported in an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 17 June. The article reads: 
The Australian Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  told Canadian officials today he was concerned that Australian beef was being re-exported through Canada to the United States at less than home market prices. 
In other words, he was saying: 'My producers back home are dumping beef on you. You are foolish not to try to correct the trend'. Of course, the Canadians were quick on the uptake. They took the hint and put quotas on beef imports. The  Australian Financial Review  has pointed out that it will cost us sales of about 8000 tonnes of beef a year. So much for a Minister saying that he will improve the market conditions. Because of this little procedure the United States of America then started to look at the matter again and breached the upper limit of the beef import quotas. That was directly attributable to what the Minister said. The Minister could not sustain an argument that the beef was being sold at less than the Australian domestic price and he could not sustain an argument that it was being dumped because the definition of 'dumping' is the selling of goods to other countries at less than the home consumption price. So, in terms of the Australian beef industry, the Minister cannot be trusted out of Australia. He cannot be let out of this country. The industry needs to keep a watch on every word he utters because he is an outside devil and an inside angel. When he gets back he will go around the north and all the beef producing areas and tell them anything they want to hear. When he gets overseas he is  Mr Responsible.  He talks about the irresponsibility of his producers and politely and quietly sells them down the drain. 
Let us look at the situation in the United States of America. On what basis could  President  Ford withstand pressure for quotas after the Australian Minister went over there and said that his own industry was dumping beef?  President  Ford subsequently lost the election in the United States. He laboured under difficult circumstances trying to carry the mid west and areas where there are beef producers. It is no wonder that the United States Administration was forced to put on beef quotas. We find not only is the deception promulgated by the Minister for Primary Industry but also by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It was interesting to note that  The 

 Bulletin ran a story on 14 August about Australia losing its beef cattle..  The Bulletin  is not what could be described as a Labor journal by any manner of means. I Will read a couple of little jewels from that article. It states: 
In contrast with its success in ideologically icy Moscow, the Fraser Government has failed as a salesman for Australian beef in the much more intimate atmosphere of Washington. The failure has been accompanied by official misrepresentation. 
That is a fairly strong claim for a very conservative journal like this. The article refers to a question addressed to the Prime Minister and what he said about our beef negotiations. The Prime Minister's reply was: 
I think that's an area where you could say 2 good friends are having a vigorous discussion. The vigour of that discussion will continue. 
What do we find later in the story?  Mr Roland  Anderson, the Director of the Dairy Livestock and Poultry Division of the Foreign Agricultural Services Section of the United States Agriculture Department, said: 
The issue has been put to bed. The numbers stand on their own . . . 
Further on the article said: "The thing is over, but I don't think he (Fraser) wanted to announce that it was over', another official said. 'It probably would have got headlines in Australia saying 'Ford rebuffs Fraser'. 
The article went on to say that in the American view the whole matter was closed and that the Prime Minister came back and said that he had continuing negotiations and the negotiations were to continue. Later in the story the writer said: 
This action was taken at the request of Agriculture Secretary, Erl Butz, Sinclair's 'close personal friend' who, the Minister said in June, had given him an understanding on the subject that made him, Sinclair, 'very happy'.- 

 Mr Sinclair was very happy about the way he was very nicely done over in the United States. So much for the special relationship that this Government claims to enjoy with the United States. The charge against the Labor Government was that because of its foreign policy stance, in the view of the then Opposition which is now the Government, the Labor Government had blotted its copy book with the United States administration and was jeopardising Australia's market position, particularly for beef, in the United States. But we found that that was not the case. The Labor Government did very nicely, thank you. This present Government claims to enjoy a special relationship. The Prime Minister ran over there without reason to talk to  President  Ford and other people in the administration. He foisted himself on them in a year when they could have well done without him. We now find that the special relationship does not mean a thing in terms of United States imports of Australian beef and in terms. of dollars and cents. Not only are there no new markets; there is also a diminishing market in the United States. 
Contrast that with the way the Fraser Government is kicking the Russians to death in terms of foreign policy. At any chance it has a jibe at the Soviet Union yet its Ministers are still trotting off to Moscow and trying to arrange meat quotas, meat imports, in order to save their bacon back in what they believe are traditionally National Country Party electorates. The point is that the National Country Party believes it has the rural vote sown up and its interest is in the big mineral areas. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  the Leader of the National Country Party, is the Minister for National Resources. He is interested in the mining companies- the iron ore, the coal, the uranium, the oil and all the rest. The beef people and the other people exist just to vote him into Parliament. The mining companies are there to contribute to election slush funds and that is where the interest of the National Country Party is to be found. 
Getting back to beef, scant regard is paid to our trading prospects overseas. When these Ministers go overseas they are not strong enough to stand up for their own industry. Let us take the position of the United States, because 70 per cent of Australia's total beef exports go there. Of the total imports to the United States, 52 per cent come from Australia. Therefore if the United States drops out there will be a sizable impact upon the Australian beef industry. The United States, as honourable members well know, is the only market for some types of beef, particularly beef from the Northern Territory and Queensland. But, of course, people are prone to believe what the Minister for Primary Industry says on his junketeering through the Northern Territory or Queensland and do not analyse his performance in this House or overseas, or his legislation. 
The result of all these risque promises and bad mouthings about the former Labor Government is a Bill to amend a former Labor Government scheme and provide $15m. That is not even as much as the Labor Government gave. I give the present Government credit for the fact that it did lift the beef export charge levy. Its supporters will point to that and say that that represents $20m going back to the producers. However they know damn well that that money has gone straight into the pockets of the exporters and nowhere near the producers. There is no relief for the beef industry in that direction. It has just made all the meat companies and the exporting companies much fatter than they would be otherwise. My colleague the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  will demonstrate later in the debate how much these companies have been fattened by the decision of the Government and responsible Minister who are always happy to oblige these companies all under the ruse that this will help the Australian beef producers who the Minister knows, politely, have been forgotten. 
So much for what this Minister and this Government say about the beef industry. They have been looked at and scrutinised for 12 months now and have been found wanting. They have not done anything significant about the beef industry. They do not care about it. They had to at least amend the Labor Government's scheme to show some regard for the state of the industry. In fact the industry now is in a much worse state, as I said earner, than it was when the Labor Government introduced assistance worth $39m for the industry. 
No matter where one looks, in relation to the United States market or other markets, this Government has been powerless to do anything. Take dairy products. In no way have dairy products gone to the United States of America. In respect of the wool industry, this Government and previous Liberal-National Country Party Governments have never been able to remove the 25 per cent excise duty on imported wool to the United States. This is a big factor in keeping down the consumption of Australian wool in that market. There is a massive clothing market in the United States, as honourable members know. Not even the European Economic Community imposes a tariff on wool but the United States does and this Government, which is supposed to enjoy a special relationship with the Government of the United States of America, cannot do anything to get that excise dropped. What are this Government's trade relations worth? They are worth nothing. They are regarded around the world as a joke, particularly by the United States. The United States thinks it has this Government where it wants it and it does not have to oblige it one way or the other. 
I will instance the contempt with which the beef industry should regard statements by leaders of the National-Country Party. I hark back to some of the statements made a couple of years ago by the Leader of the National Country Party about beef production. In a submission to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices a couple of years ago the Leader of the National Country Party stated: 
The Country Party believes that Government policy inasmuch as it relates to the beef industry should be directed to: (a) the encouragement of production. 
He went on to state: 
If, as appears likely, a world beef shortage is developing, then Australia must respond in the most effective manner possible to meet this position. 
The date of that statement was August 1973. In other statements made at about the same time, for example in an address to the Agricultural Machinery Exhibition at Gunnedah, New South Wales, the Leader of the National Country Party said: 
As incomes rise demand for meat will rise. In fact, I think demand will rise so fast that well be flat out trying to keep up with it. The thing that will most help us to meet the demand will be encouragement of higher production- and if people will restrain themselves from doing silly things about meat prices, production will rise quickly. 
In the same address he went on to state: 
There will be industries for which production increases will be the appropriate policy at particular times. The meat industry, the wheat industry and the wool industry are current examples. 
Among the many statements made at about that time was a Press statement about the Budget issued on 21 August 1973 in which  Mr Anthony  went on to explain: 
At a time when production should be encouraged and decentralisation encouraged, the Government's strategy is to reallocate resources away from the rural sector. 
In September 1973 he concluded a statement by saying: 
At time when the urgent need is for stimulation of meat production, the Government seems to be going out of its way to find ways of discouraging production. 
That is the kind of advice the National Country Party has been giving to the beef industry for years. That is the kind of cheap, irresponsible politics it engages in. It has no concern about the dislocation it causes to families, to districts and to a great industry. It has no concern or worry about the heartburning it causes producers. It just happens to suit the politics of the Country Party at that time. That is the overriding consideration. All other considerations fall into the background. If the industry collapses the attitude of the Country Party seems to be that that is a contingency with which it will deal in the future. A great swag of regional newspapers throughout Australia, mostly controlled by conservative individuals many of whom are associated with the Country Party, will always guarantee to give these people protection in the public media. They will always be protected from the irresponsibility of their actions and when the industry is going bad. But the industry is not going bad. It has gone bad and it has gone a lot worse since this Government has been in office. 
All we see today is an amendment to an Australian Labor Party scheme to make available $15m for carry-on loans to the beef industry at a low interest rate. Yet this amount compares with $ 19.6m which was given by the Labor Government. Since then we have had a year and a half of double figure inflation which means that $ 19.6m would look like $22m if, in real terms, that amount were to be equalled. But we find that it is $15m, not $22m. Criticism was offered because of the $39.6m support which was given by the Labor Government to the beef industry. Now we find that the Government trots in this Bill to provide $15m. The beef industry should laugh the Government out of the Parliament and laugh Government supporters out of their place in office. The Government has dismally failed the Australian beef industry. I hope that honourable members on the Government side who follow me in this debate will not have the hide to get up and try to talk their way out of the predicament the Australian beef industry is in. The Government has an absolute disregard for the seriousness of the situation. Let it be honest and say: 'What we have done is not good enough. We are buttressing and reinforcing a scheme which was introduced by the Labor Government. But we will do this and this as we promised during the election campaign'. It is time that this Government put its money where its mouth was and is, particularly where its mouth was during the election campaign, and showed the Australian beef producer that this is not the cynical display of politics which the producers are beginning to believe it is. 
The National Country Party which has just used this situation unscrupulously for its electoral advantage has thrown the beef industry in the rubbish can. Later it has come in with this trite piece of legislation and is concentrating all its efforts and interests, as usual, in the mineral sector. The Opposition supports the legislation because it will help the beef industry. We are interested in doing that. We certainly demonstrated our  bona fides  when in Government. We will do so again. We urge the Government to consider this industry and to treat it better than it has done. The Government should not persist with the notion that the lifting of the beef export charge of $20m helped the industry at all. It has helped only meat exporters, not the industry. The industry needs more help than has been given by the Government. I believe the Government would do well to consider the words I have directed to it today. 
-The purpose of this Bill is for the Parliament to authorise the appropriation of non-repayable grants to the States over the 3 year period 1976-77 to 1978-79 to qualify and quantify the underground and surface water resources of the various States. Initially this program was aimed at quantifying water resources. It was established for this purpose back in 1964. In 1974 the program was extended by the then Labor Government to include an assessment of the quality of underground and surface water as well as the quantity. The Commonwealth implements its own program on water research in the various Commonwealth Territories as well as assisting the States to do the same. Grants which have been payable to the States to date total $34.4m over a 12 year period. 
One pleasing characteristic about this scheme is that it is not one where the Commonwealth has the only growth contribution operating. The States, encouraged by the Commonwealth, have incurred expenditures under these water resource programs in excess of that required to attract the maximum Commonwealth grant. The statistics on stream gauging stations bear this out. They have increased from 1450 in 1964 to 2750 in 1975. During this period the area over which surface water resources are now measured has increased by 40 per cent. The same kind of picture emerges in respect of underground water resources. The problem is, however, that there remain large areas of the Australian continent where detailed knowledge of water resources has not been accumulated. Obviously, if the quantification has not taken place, qualification has not either. So in the next 3 years emphasis under the legislation will be placed on these areas. 
Under this legislation the Commonwealth proposes to allocate $5.658m by way of a nonrepayable grant to the States to assist in their proposed programs for 1976-77. In real terms this is the same as the assistance granted in 1975-76. Also the Commonwealth has agreed to take part in the programs for 1977-78 and 1978-79 but at levels yet to be determined. The last few years have seen many natural disasters in Australia, particularly floods and droughts, making it obvious that there is a high variable factor in Australia's weather and rainfall; and therefore in the flow of its rivers. Too many communities have been disadvantaged by inadequacy of knowledge in this area. This can be rectified only by continued co-operation at a Commonwealth-State level. The continuation of this program for a further 3-year period should go a long way in quantifying and qualifying the surface and underground water resources of Australia and all kinds of climatic conditions. Without this kind of basic information planning, development and management of our water resources for a variety of uses becomes impossible. The Opposition supports the legislation as it did in government in 1974 by expanding the program to improve the assessment of the quality of surface and underground water in Australia. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, this debate encompasses the contents of two documents, the first report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry and the Ministerial statement by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  in respect to the supply of Australian uranium under existing international contracts. In fact the debate should only be upon the first report of the Ranger Inquiry but in its indecent haste the Government, within days of the presentation of this report, made a statement of policy indicating its intention to supply uranium under the existing contracts. The report of the Ranger Environmental Inquiry or the Fox Report, as it is known, is a document of international significance. One could not but be impressed by the mass of technical detail in the report and the assessment of evidence and the clear picture it provides of the international nuclear industry. The report deals carefully with the questions of nuclear proliferation, waste disposal, human safety and associated matters. 
However, one must feel disappointed with the manner in which the Fox Commission has discharged its obligations to the Parliament in the terms of its findings and recommendations. In this regard the report is ambiguous and uncertain and the import of its findings and recommendations is repeatedly countered by hard opinion and conclusions written into the body of the report. I feel I am able to say that the Fox Commission has let the nation down by not providing hard recommendations to the Parliament, to the Government and to the country. Of course recommendations do not have to be accepted but it is preferable that they be made, particularly by people who, at large public expense- something like $2m in this instance- have been immersed in the complexities of the nuclear question and have had the advantage of taking evidence under oath. Nobody else in public life will have the benefits of this exposure to such a complex question. That is why I believe it is unacceptable for the Commission to say, in its recommendations and findings, that certain matters should be determined by the Parliament. 
Of course, they will be determined by the Parliament. At least they must be determined by a Government. But what the Parliament sought was some firm recommendations to consider. For instance, why could there not have been firm recommendations on uranium supply in relation to existing contracts. This aspect is alluded to in the body of the report, yet nothing appears in the recommendations. I notice that in today's Press it is reported that  Mr Justice  Fox has written to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  complaining of the Government's misinterpretation of the Commission's recommendations and findings. It said amongst other things that what have been taken to be recommendations were in fact only findings. I recognise the Commissioners' concerntheir concern as to the Government's glib interpretation of a complex document. But why did the Commission not distinguish recommendations from findings. The Commission must have realised in presenting a highly political document like this to a government, particularly a government with the present Government's predilections, that the Government would attempt where possible, for its own selfish reasons, to drive a horse and cart through the conclusions listed. It is to no avail for the Commission now to cry over this misinterpretation of its report. It should have had enough sense to make its findings, conclusions and recommendations clear, firm and unequivocal. If the commissioners could not find agreement amongst themselves, they should have introduced a majority and a minority report so that there were arguments and conclusions backing firm recommendations. At least then a clear choice would be available. It is to be hoped that in their second report the Commissioners have learned their lesson and that they write recommendations firmly. 
Now let me deal with the Government's goodwill or lack of it. The Government, I believe, made a decision a long time ago to mine and export Australian uranium on a large scale basis. The Ranger report talks of possible export tonnages of 15 000 tons a year in 1985 and up to 30 000 tons a year by 1990-1992. This is what the debate is all about- whether Australia moves into wholesale uranium exports or not. Of course the Government and the Prime Minister are now saying that further decisions as to exports will not be made until the presentation of the second report of the Ranger Commission, that is, the report pertaining to the Northern Territory. But this is only window dressing. In making his statement on existing contracts, the Minister failed to mention that the supply of uranium currently available in Australia from mining and stockpiles fails to meet the totality of the existing contracts. This has not been dealt with in the Minister's statement for the simple reason that the Government intends to go ahead with new mining developments in Australia to meet the shortfall under the existing contracts and to meet new contract commitments. 
While the Prime Minister at question time today said that he will wait upon the presentation of the second report and preaches a wait and see policy, in fact, unless I am badly mistaken, he and his Government are determined to press ahead with large scale uranium mining in Australia. The Prime Minister's crude attempt to jam the Opposition into a premature debate on the uranium issue last Tuesday week by his announcement the previous Thursday of the Government's decision on the existing contracts failed when the Opposition took the challenge and determined an attitude to that particular question. Honourable members will be aware now that the Opposition has determined that in government it would prohibit the export of uranium from new uranium mines for an indefinite period and indicated that it will not honour any new contracts that were signed by the Fraser Government or any other future conservative government. The Opposition would have enjoyed and should have enjoyed the luxury of some time to consider and determine its attitude to this vital question, to consider the Fox report in the light of public attitudes towards it and the question of the nuclear industry. It has been denied this consideration by a crude Prime Minister who believes he can crash his way through everyone and everything to secure his purpose. If I am correct and the Government presses ahead with new uranium mining in Australia, it will do so in disregard of the notice of caution articulated in the Fox report. 
On the broader front of the nuclear debate in Australia, the big danger is that the debate could get bogged down in the relatively minor matter concerning exports under the existing contracts. Let me deal for a moment with this aspect. At present the only mine operating in Australia is the Mary Kathleen mine in Queensland. It has a life of about seven to eight years remaining. Its productive capacity is an effective 800 tons per year. Its remaining reserves amount to 1.8 per cent of Australia's total proven reserves of 350 000 short tons. If the Government's policy is to meet the existing contracts to Japan, the United States and West Germany, which amount to 1 1 757 short tons, supplied from the remaining ore body at Mary Kathleen and from the Atomic Energy Commission stockpile, it will amount to a policy to export 2.8 per cent of Australia's total reserves under the existing contracts. 
The Opposition does not demur from this course, but that is hardly what is at issue. The issue is, as I said earlier, whether Australia should get plugged into the international nuclear industry by allowings its large uncommitted reserves to buttress the expansion of that industry. I believe, and the Opposition believes, that at this moment, given what the Fox Commission reveals about the hazards associated with the nuclear industry and given some of the firm statements which were made in the report urging caution and delay, Australia should not, at this stage, commit itself to promote the expansion of the nuclear industry. 
Let me quote some relevant extracts from the body of the report. First I shall quote from paragraph 7 of the findings and recommendations on page 185. The House should take cognisance of these statements. 1 quote: 
Policy respecting Australian uranium exports, for the time being at least, should be based on a full recognition of the hazards, dangers and problems of and associated with the production of nuclear energy, and should therefore seek to limit or restrict expansion of that production. 
From page 181: 
We recognise the importance of these factors, (that is, the impact of development upon prices) and would not contemplate suggesting that a delay be considered if we were not convinced that the hazards associated with the nuclear industry are of overriding national and international significance. 
Take the extract from section 3 of the principal findings and recommendations on page 185. 
The nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increased risk of nuclear war. This is the most serious hazard associated with the industry. Complete evaluation of the extent of the risk and assessment of what course should be followed to reduce it involve matters of national security and international relations which are beyond the ambit of the inquiry. 
Obviously from statements of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development at the time of the delivery of the Fox report and on the occasion of the statement in the House of Representatives pertaining to existing contracts, the Government does not take the Fox Commission's warnings seriously. He referred to item 1 of the findings and recommendations as 'the first major recommendation of the report'. Clearly this is not the case.  His  subsequent statement indicates that he believes, and the Government believes, that it is the case.  His  original statement and his subsequent statement have been interpreted by the mining industry and by the investing public as a clear endorsement by the Government of uranium mining. The Australian stock exchange responded to the Government's statement and the media broadly interpreted the Commission's report and the subsequent ministerial statement as a green light for uranium mining in Australia. 
The Government has engaged and is engaging in a massive deception, and the Fraser Island decision in respect of the dishonouring of contracts following the environmental report is but a throw-away to the environmentalists in Australia to gain some ground for the Government to move rapidly into the development of uranium resources. At this point in time the Government has made no acknowledgment of the dangers and hazards associated with nuclear power mentioned by the Commission throughout the body of its report. In turning its back upon the true spirit of the report the Government is misleading the Australian people and setting Australia on a course that it may later regret. 
Let it be made perfectly clear that the Opposition does not support the establishment of new uranium mining capacity in Australia until the nuclear industry has put its house in order. A future Labor government will not be bound by decisions taken by the Fraser Government or any other conservative government, in relation to uranium. In the meantime, as an Opposition and as a future government, the Labor Party will seek to improve the proliferation safeguards applying to the international nuclear industry. It will also closely monitor developments in waste disposal technology, the absence of which is now militating against the development of the nuclear industry for electricity generation throughout the world. 
Whether Australia supplies uranium to the world or not it should not abrogate its responsibilities in developing new energy technology. Australians are in a very fortunate position. In electricity generation terms we are abundantly rich in energy resources, particularly brown and black coal; so rich that it is difficult to envisage in the medium term the need to develop nuclear power as a source of electricity generation in this country. However, energy supply is becoming a critical global problem. Australia must not shirk its responsibilities and must be at the forefront in research into new energy forms. 
In conclusion, I urge the Government to take heed of the Fox Commission's call for a full public debate before a decision is taken in respect of the establishment of new uranium mines and not to commit Australia to a role in the expansion of nuclear power which its citizens and their children may regret. In all decency, the Government must wait until the issues are thrashed out in the public forums before any substantial decisions are made. 
I desire to ask the Treasurer a question relative to the devaluation. Will the Treasurer explain clearly to the House on what basis he believes an increase in the price of imports will not contribute to an increase in domestic prices? 
-This debate is a cognate debate on the Apple and Pear Levy Bill 1976, the Apple and Pear Levy Collection Bill 1976, the Apple and Pear Export Charge Bill 1976, the Apple and Pear Export Charge Collection Bill 1976 and the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation Amendment Bill 1976. The purpose of these Bills is to provide for the imposition and collection of levies on the production and sale in Australia of apples and pears and a charge on apples and pears exported from Australia. The Opposition does not oppose the legislation. 
The legislation introduced by the Government is in response to recommendations of the Australian Apple and Pear Growers Association to finance the activities of the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation. Under the present legislation the funds provided to the Corporation are derived exclusively from a charge on apple and pear exports. Over the last few years the export trade in apples and pears has declined and therefore there are insufficient funds available to meet the brunt of the development costs, particularly those related to the local market. With the changed sale picture, the great bulk of apple and pear production is marketed in Australia and it is on this basis that the Apple and Pear Growers Association has proposed in fairness to all growers in the industry that collections should be on the basis of production rather than on exports. 
At the time of the dissolution of the last Parliament similar legislation had been prepared for enactment but of course lapsed. These Bills are similar to those that were previously introduced by the Labor Government to finance equitably the Apple and Pear Corporation which was itself a creature of that Government. However, the Bills of the Labor Government provided for the levy on a hectare basis. This legislation is on a per case basis. The only point of objection which the Opposition raises is that it will be difficult to administer the collection on a case basis when so many apples and pears are delivered on a bulk basis. So in that sense we believe that the legislation of the former Government on a hectare basis suited the industry better. I am reliably informed that most sections ofthe grower association also believe that to be the situation. However, the majority ofthe States decided in favour of a per case charge. 
Whilst the Opposition supports the equitable collection of levies for the operation of the Apple and Pear Corporation, particularly in respect of marketing, it does not support the inactivity and lack of imagination of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  Obviously the Minister hopes that the Apple and Pear Corporation will solve his problems. At this stage the Government has 2 Industries Assistance Commission reports in front of it on the apple and pear industry but, until this time, it has proposed nothing positive for the industry. This legislation is to finance the operations of the Corporation, but what of the policy underlying the industries problems? What does the Minister intend to do about the fact that export markets are falling off? What does he intend for the Australian domestic market? 
The introduction of the Tasmanian Fruit Equalisation Scheme is an indication that the Government does not know what factors are influencing marketing both domestically and on the export front at this time. What happens if all the Tasmanian growers take up the Tasmanian Equalisation Scheme and ship all their fruit to the mainland? Have the Minister and the Government given any consideration to what this will do to prices or what it may do to the livelihood of areas supplying domestic outlets? Obviously the Government and the Minister believe that the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation is to be the arbiter in these matters. 
One needs only to look at the final statement by the Minister in his second reading speech to understand that he is out of touch with this industry. In his second reading speech he makes some disturbing admissions which confirm" that he is unaware of the direction in which the industry is heading, the policy needed to arrest the industry's declining fortunes or the way in which such policies can be put into operation. 
The Minister says: 
I am confident that there is a place in Australian horticulture for a viable apple and pear industry and I believe the Corporation will become more significant as a focal point for the industry's re-organisation and adjustment. It is imperative, however, that its financial support be assured if it is to fulfil its objectives. 
Such glib utterances and insincerity can be of little consolation to the apple and pear growers in the Huon in Tasmania or to those at Stanthorpe in Queensland or Manjimup in Western Australia. For 12 months the Government has been in office yet these growers have seen nothing positive from the Minister to arrest the decline in real income in the industry. It would do the Minister good to visit some of these fruit growing areas to see at first hand what is expected of him. Obviously growers in the industry are now sick of talk and sick of promises and require some positive action. 
The Australian Labor Party believes that alternative measures designed to facilitate adjustment could provide more help to fruit growers, their families and the communities dependent on them at much less cost to the nation. These measures could also benefit those who remain in fruit growing and facilitate their adjustment to subsequent changes. The Minister should take notice of the Industries Assistance Commission recommendations and should act on the following propositions: 
The adjustment of interstate quarantine regulations and other restrictions on interstate trade with a view to obtaining agreement with appropriate States to eliminate unnecessary restraints on trade. 
Liberalisation of the Corporation's restrictions on methods of sale in export markets other than Europe and North America. 
A maximum exporters' commission being fixed in terms of a percentage of the f.o.b. value of produce and liberalising the requirements for the issue of new export licences. 
The Minister should also turn his attention to that part of the IAC report on fruit growing and reconstruction which deals with the structural adjustment measures mentioned. These industries and the people who work in them require some leadership and positive action, not just a pile of measures to collect money from them. That is all that these Bills amount to. 
The National Country Party in the past has shown no inclination to promote sensible agricultural policies within Australia. It has relied always on the piecemeal approach of one price support scheme complementing another. The horticultural industry is one of the industries hit most hard by a decline in Australia 's agricultural export activity. In many cases what the Government has on its hands is an urgent welfare problem. Only policies of structural adjustment, sympathetically instituted, can overcome the hardship which is now plaguing this industry. Growers can only look to the national Government for some kind of planned national initiative. After all the promises in Opposition from the Minister for Primary Industry and the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  it is time they got off their backsides and started honouring them. 
The Industries Assistance Commission has set down a blueprint for the reconstruction of this industry. The Government, and the Minister for Primary Industry in particular, must face up to their obligations and give urgent attention to these specific recommendations. The horticultural industry can do nothing now but wait until the Government acts positively to rectify the plight which many growers now face. 
In conclusion, the Opposition supports the legislation. It is legislation which it had planned to introduce in Government. But it recognises that this legislation is just a small part of the measures that must be taken to re-establish a viable apple and pear industry in Australia 
I am amused to hear the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  say that as a Liberal he is interested in women's rights, particularly as just 2 nights ago the Liberal Party had a woman jumping out of a cake in Parliament House, demeaning not only the status of women in this country but also the status of the Ministers and members who were there. 
I do not know whether you were involved in the party. Let us find out from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Liberal Party which Ministers and members were at the party so that we can know which Ministers and members of the Liberal Party are interested in the rights, dignity and status of Australian women. Some time ago it may have been said that this kind of activity could have been expected of the Labor Party, the working class, but not of proper people, nor of the correct people in the community, not of the representatives of the establishment, to run what would otherwise be visible only in a peep show. But in the Parliament of this nation you and your Ministers are involved in a party in which you have a woman jumping naked out of a cake. You have demeaned the Parliament of Australia. 
We on this side ofthe House want to know who was involved- which Ministers and members were present. 
A question was asked on this matter today and the  Speaker,  in my view, gave a very flippant reply to a very serious subject, and that is the behaviour of Ministers and members of this Parliament in the precincts of this House. We would like to know whether most members of the Liberal Party and the Prime Minister share the Speaker's view. Perhaps the Australian women's movement and women in Australia generally would like to know which Liberal Ministers and members approve of the concept of naked women jumping out of cakes for their pleasure. The things we would expect in the peep shows of King's Cross have happened in the Parliament House of the nation. 
Your Party is embarrassed. It might well be embarrassed by your behaviour. You have no moral standards. 
A question of morality is involved. It is the same as the question of morality which arose last year when the people of this Party, the people who represent the establishment of this country, for their own selfish reasons ripped up the Australian Constitution. Those honourable members did the immoral things that they are now ashamed of. It just seems they never learn. We now find that, with the appointment of a Minister specially involved with women's rights and with the Prime Minister's glib talk about bis interest in the dignity of women, senior Ministers are party to this kind of charade in Parliament House. It is up to the  Speaker  to do something positive about it and not excuse people in his Party by way of bis glib references to the matter this morning. It is up to the Prime Minister to identify those people involved and to state his attitude about the matter. We on this side regard this behaviour as being unacceptable in Parliament House particularly as it is a massive sleight to the women of this country. We find it unacceptable that Ministers and members should cover up their behaviour. 
-These Bills give legislative effect to the provisions announced in the Budget by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in August. The ones I will concern myself with in this cognate debate are those primarily associated with the mining and petroleum industries. In that respect the Bills encompass at least S important changes to the Income Tax Assessment Act which were the subject at an earlier stage this year of investigation and recommendation by the Industries Assistance Commission. I shall describe them briefly seriatum. 
First, the most important one is that allowable capital expenditure by any petroleum or general mining company on the development of a mine or field is deductible at the rate of 20 per cent on a diminishing value basis. This contrasts with the 4 per cent diminishing value basis which is currently applicable. Secondly, allowable capital expenditure on the facilities used for the transportation of minerals including petroleum will be deductible on a straight line basis over either 20 years as previously or 10 years at the taxpayer's option. Also under this category expenditure on rail transport facilities have been extended to cover expenditure at present not deductible on port development such as harbour surveys, initial dredging, navigational aids and breakwaters. Thirdly, allowable capital expenditure on the development of a petroleum field will now be deductible from income from any source, that is, at the same rate as allowable capital expenditure generally. Fourthly, petroleum exploration expenditure will now be immediately deductible against income from any source instead of, as previously, petroleum income only. Fifthly, the retention allowance in respect of trading or business income available to companies for undistributable income tax purposes is to be increased from SO per cent to 60 per cent for income in respect of the 1975-76 year of income initially. 
The Opposition has a mixed reaction to these measures. I will briefly state our attitude to them. We support all of the measures except the one pertaining to deductions for capital expenditure at the rate of 20 per cent on a diminishing value basis. At least three of the provisions I have mentioned were the subject of investigation, report and recommendation by the Industries Assistance Commission; that is, expenditure on mineral petroleum development to be deductible from income derived from any source, allowable capital expenditure by petroleum companies to be deductible from income derived from any source, allowable capital expenditure to be extended to cover expenditure on ports and related facilities including housing and welfare facilities located at the port site. In these respects the Government's budgetary proposals are in line with the IAC recommendation. However, in respect of the rate of deduction for allowable capital expenditure on assets used for mining or petroleum operations, the Government's proposition of a 20 per cent diminishing value basis is in conflict with the IAC recommendation, which was that deductibility be allowed on a straight line basis over the life of the asset, the life of the mine or 1 S years whichever is the least. 
I shall deal now with the question of the provision of this legislation relating to allowable capital expenditure on assets. The history of this legislation is that when the experience in Australia and elsewhere in the world showed that coal mines and other mines which had a long life the tax Act in respect of depreciation allowed a write-off on capital assets on a strict life of mine basis. This was very different to the deductibility allowed general manufacturing and over a period of time it was changed to come more into line with manufacturing industry and a deduction on a 4 per cent diminishing value basis was established in 1951. Later as Australia moved into what has been termed the mining boom, this was again altered to provide immediate deductibility for depreciation. This of course was clearly concessionary as it did not in any way take into account the life of the asset. 
In 1973 the then Labor Government changed the rate of depreciation to a 4 per cent diminishing value basis or, if the life of the mine was less then 25 years, deductions spread over the life of the mine in equal instalments, the rationale being that mines lasted at least 25 years, and if less, the straight line deduction was available. After much indignation on the part of the mining industry at this change, the matter was then referred to the Industries Assistance Commission by the then Prime Minister, the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  on 2 May 1974. After investigation the Commission recommended in its draft report that the 4 per cent diminishing value basis remain but then changed its recommendation to a 15 year straight line basis in the final report, no doubt in a spirit of compromise- but to no avail. The Government had other ideas. 
Be that as it may, the Opposition does see justice and merit in a departure from what is otherwise a clear principle of depreciation based upon the life of an asset or mine. It does so because of the compelling arguments that finance for large capital projects for the mining industry is granted only upon the surety of a firm contract and a demonstrable adequate cash flow. That is because the advances of sums in the hundreds of millions cannot be secured against a participant's other assets. The only realistic security then available to the lender is surety of return of funds and service to loans via the cash flow from the company's earnings. The Industries Assistance Commission recommended IS years on the basis not of facilitating a cash flow but to bring the rate of deductions into line with that generally applying in manufacturing, the IAC proposition being that this would guarantee taxation neutrality. For my part, I think tax neutrality is bunkum, nonsense, and that there is a clear case for a concession arising from the adjustment of the rates of depreciation in favour of the mining industry, in particular because of the difficulties of servicing vast amounts of capital. 
It is generally accepted in Australia that the period for loan borrowings in respect of mining is somewhere around 7 years. Because of the uncertainties of the capital market and of the nature of interest, 7 years is about the average lending period for large resource orientated loans wherever one might look in the world. It is during these 7 years that it is important for the mining industry to recoup the major part of its outlay on assets allowable capital expenditure. The Opposition submits that the 20 per cent diminishing value basis of deductions is too generous because it leads to the unhealthy situation that no tax is paid in the first year and only small amounts are paid in the ensuing years. One can find that over a period of four or five years, by the time the Government collects the tax, double figure inflation as we have experienced in the last few years will have eroded the value of the tax dollars by half before they are collected. 
We had a situation during the mining boom in the 1960s in which, as  Mr T.  M. Fitzgerald demonstrated in his report in 1974, with constant development and constant deductions being available tax was not paid. It is true it was paid later but what were 1967 dollars worth in 1974? If one accepts that the departure from the principle of deductions over the life of an asset or a mine is concessionary, the issue is: What is the appropriate concession; what is the level of deductibility permissible to meet the demands of cash financing over this vital initial 7 year period? 
In the Opposition's view a reasonable rate of deductibility would be a 10 per cent diminishing rate. This rate is simpler than the straight line method for accounting purposes, as on that basis the life of each piece of equipment has to be assessed individually whereas on the diminishing value basis the balance after each year is lumped together. If one accepts that the diminishing value basis is preferable to the straight line, what needs to be assessed is the level of deductibility. In my opinion and in the opinion of the Opposition a 10 per cent rate is preferable to a 20 per cent rate. This does justice to the cash flow problem for capital financing and it is somewhat better than the rate of deductibility accorded general manufacturing. I refer to a table which I have prepared in relation to a $600m investment and assumed levels of company income for the first 7 years. I seek leave to have that table incorporated in  Hansard. 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. The Treasurer will recall his recent visit to Europe and the visits of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Foreign Investment Review Board to preach the virtues of the investment potential of Australia in an endeavour to attract foreign investment capital. Given that new foreign investment is held off in anticipation of a change in the parity of the Australian dollar, how does the Treasurer now propose to deal with what must result in an absolute torrent of overseas funds into Australia? Does the Treasurer plan to use the variable deposit scheme or other schemes as an inhibitor to massive inflow of funds? If so, how does he reconcile the imposition of such a scheme with the attractive invitations he issued to foreign companies? 
-The matter of public importance the Opposition raises today concerns 'the  ad hoc  economic policies of the Prime Minister and the Treasurer.' Frankly, the Opposition resents the presence of the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  and the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  to defend the actions of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Two shadow Ministers concerned with economics raise a matter in the House- an attack upon the Prime Minister and the Treasurer- yet we get a junior Minister, one who has been in the Cabinet for 4 weeks, in here to defend the Government on 2 consecutive days while the Prime Minister and the Treasurer hide in their offices downstairs. It is not good enough. It is not good enough particularly for a government which has absolutely distinguished itself by a total lack of consistency in economic policy. 
We raise the question of ad hockery because that is the very essence of this Government's present policy. When it came to power it smashed the Labor Government's Budget. It rejected the concept of a consumer led recovery. Now we are in this position: We have no consumer led recovery and savings banks deposits are climbing. We have no investment led recovery and investment in Australian manufacturing industry is dropping all the time, as the Minister for Productivity well knows. The investment allowance has had no effect whatsoever and now the anti-inflation policy has failed. 
Just a day or so ago I asked the Treasurer in this House a question about import prices affecting domestic prices and he had to admit that there would be an increase in domestic prices. In other words, there will be an increase in inflation. So the Government has nothing running for it in terms of a coherent economic policy. Yet when we raise this matter in the House we get the Minister for Productivity and the honourable member for Berowra here to defend the Government. I say that is not good enough from a Government which is very much under attack and under a cloud in this country. Look at the kind of headlines it is getting. The editorial in today's  Australian Financial Review  is headed 'Down Mexico Way'. That is the way the Press regards the manner in which this Government is governing Australia. Let me quote the last 2 sentences: 

 Mr Fraser stated in the 1975 election that it could take a full 3 years to restore the economy after the Whitlam years. A year later the scenario for recovery is even worse. 
It is even worse after a year. Yet the Prime Minister and the Treasurer cannot come into the House to defend their policies. All this is the doing of the Prime Minister and the Treasurer- a demented idealogue and his subservient deputy; the great economic managers, we were told; these great men of business! What now is the fall-back strategy for the economic recovery of Australia? Bash the unions, pressure organised labour and hold down wages, in desperation, to save themselves at the next election. 
Let us examine their latest atrocity, the 1716 per cent devaluation, because that is the rock on which their economic policy perishes. When introducing the Budget last August the Treasurer said that the Australian dollar was over-valued. If that is not trailing your coat, I do not know what is. At the Cabinet meeting which discussed devaluation, only  Senator Cotton,  the Minister for Industry and Commerce, and the Treasurer were in favour of holding the line on the dollar. Even the Prime Minister was not in favour of it. And who would believe the assurances of the Treasurer to the House and to the nation when everybody knows that the Prime Minister and two-thirds of the Cabinet were in favour of a devaluation? If we get down to the nitty-gritty,  Mr Fraser  was probably Davidson's leak because  Mr Fraser  wanted the devaluation. Let us look at today's  Inside Canberra.  On the last page this passage appears: 
One of the Prime Minister's senior advisers told  Inside Canberra  this week the Government had no plans for tariff reductions. He said tariff reductions would not be practical at this stage because of the possibility of a significant upward revaluation of the dollar in the near future. 
That revaluation of the Australian dollar was announced today. It was revalued by 2 per cent. That story is in  Inside Canberra,  which would have been printed a couple of days ago. The information came from the Prime Minister's office. So the blame can be laid on the Prime Minister who always was a leak and who always will be a leak in any government in which he serves, even if it is his own. 
Let us look at the situation in respect of the reality of devaluation. Look at the reserves in 1 973. They were $4.2 billion- excessive. What were they on 26 November? They were $2.1 billionnot dangerously low. In fact there was a strong and improving balance of payments, showing a $629m surplus in the first 4 months of this financial year. So if one talks about the basic strength of the currency or about it being over-valued, as the Treasurer did, there is the answer. Obviously it was not over-valued. There was a trade surplus. That meant that there was a responsibility on the Government to manage the invisibles- to manage the deficit. It could have done so in a number of ways. It failed to do so. It allowed speculative outflow and did not check it. As the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  pointed out not long ago, one of the reasons we had the speculative outflow was that the Government, in its stupidity, allowed companies to hold what would otherwise have been the quarterly income tax collections. Companies were awash with money. They had money to burn. They put it out in speculation. It was the money which left Australia which finally forced this situation. 
We ask: Why were there not prohibitions on the export of money? Why was there not more scrutiny by the Reserve Bank under the Foreign Exchange Regulations of the reasons why companies wanted to take out money? Why were there not prohibitions on the repatriation of profit, or the variable deposit scheme in reverse? The reason was that the Prime Minister was in favour of devaluation and was prepared to do anything to get it. These companies have been rewarded with a 1714 per cent devaluation and a huge capital gain. Where is the consistency? The issue is the Treasurer's role. What is the Treasurer's role? He said that he would go to Cabinet and fight for the Treasury line against devaluation. He walks in, leaving  Sir Frederick  Wheeler and  Mr Knight  outside the meeting. The Secretary of the Treasury and the Governor of the Reserve Bank were not even invited. The Treasurer presents the figures to the Prime Minister; the Prime Minister says: 'Yes. We must have a devaluation', and the Treasurer, cops it sweet. There was no argument. Who set the figure of 17V4 per cent? The Treasury would not have a bar of it because  Sir Frederick  was locked out of the discussions.  Mr Knight  would not have a bar of it. So the Government foolishly set its own figure of 17 1/2 per cent. Now it has had to climb down today by 2 per cent because it had made the figure so high. All of this happened because of the pigheadedness of the Prime Minister and because of the lack of any coherent economic strategy. 
I get back to the Treasurer's role. At this moment he is totally discredited. Everything he said in the House has been discredited. He has no coherent economic policy. I quote what he said in December last year. 
Businessmen, consumers and members of the community generally can now look forward to stable, responsible and honest government under the coalition parties. In doing so, they can take heart also from the fact that the incoming Government has a clear and positive economic strategy to carry through. 
That was said by  Mr Lynch  last December. Nonsenseabsolute, arrant nonsense, because there is now no policy. The Treasurer is discredited. The only honourable course available to him is to resign. That must be being put to him by his back bench. We on this side of the House demand his resignation. We call for his resignation. He has misled not only the Parliament but also the nation. 
These 2 Ministers, the Prime Minister and the Treasurer, are obsessed with big projects. They think foreign investment will save the day for them. It will take four or five years to get big projects off the line. They will mean nothing in terms of Australian economic recovery. All the tripping around the world that the Treasurer did, inviting foreign capital here, has to be squeezed off by the mechanisms, to which he referred at question time, of the Reserve Bank, because if foreign inflow comes into this country and if the Government believes it has to manage the money supply rigorously it will have to close down all lending available to the Australian community for housing and for all other things such as general manufacturing and all the areas where there is employment. If the Government accepts and does not regulate the inflow of foreign capital there can be no recovery. There will be no consumer confidence and therefore there will be no long term recovery. 
The whole issue is this: The Government has practised absolute ad hockery. It is now talking about cushioning primary industry against the excesses of interest rates. It is now talking about cushioning the export sector, manufacturing, the mining industry and the rest. What about all the other people who do not get cushioned? 
The housing sector, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said. What about the small people who cannot afford another Ite per cent increase in interest rates? Already a budding society charges 1 LS per cent. What does the Government want to charge the people? Does it want to charge them 13 per cent on a housing loan in Australia? The Utah Development Co. pegged up $ 135m today. It got let off the coal export levy earlier this year. It has been given the increment of a devaluation. Now it wants to be protected from interest rates, for God's sake! It is absolute ad hockery. The 2 guilty men are the Treasurer and the Prime Minister. They should have been here today to answer the charge against them. They failed to appear. They sent in a junior Minister, who is not even a member of the Cabinet, and the honourable member for Berowra who cannot answer the charge. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Bankstown airport is in the electorate of Blaxland and I am interested and have taken an interest in the consolidation of the Hawker de 
Havilland Australia Pty Ltd plant. The history, briefly, is that the Lidcombe plant is owned by the Government and leased by Hawker de Havilland. It was an ex-wartime plant. In the interests of economies the Government has decided to merge the 2 plants at a cost of $7m. I do not cavil at that because this move will improve the competitiveness of Hawker de Havilland in the aircraft industry. Most of the material coming from Lidcombe to Bankstown is of a manufacturing or service nature. It should not add a significant amount of air traffic to the Bankstown airport. 
However, on that point I am very concerned because last year air traffic movements at Bankstown numbered 302 000. It is now the busiest airport in Australia. There has been no positive plan on the part of any federal or State government, up until now, to establish another general aviation facility on the north side of Sydney. Unless there is some relief at Bankstown someone will be killed. There were S deaths 2 years ago. The air traffic must increase as it is the only inner city outlet for light aircraft traffic besides the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. Much of its fight traffic is coming to Bankstown. The expansion of the Cessna Aircraft Company, the Piper Aircraft Australia facilities for assembly and now Hawker de Havilland is just adding to the infrastructure of industry around the airport. It has flying schools. More and more people are going there. Air safety is an urgent matter which has been forgotten by successive governments. The problem must soon be rectified. 
The flight patterns at Bankstown airport pass over 6 schools. The result will be that deaths must occur with the traffic demands at this level. So, I urge the Government to look favourably at establishing a new general aviation facility on the north side of Sydney, where 45 per cent of Bankstown 's traffic comes from, in the interests of providing facilities for people in that area who fly and also in the interests of safety and of giving some relief from noise to the people of the Bankstown community. I do not oppose the consolidation of the Lidcombe plant because basically it is a manufacturing facility. But I would not like to see consolidation involving Hawker de Havilland become the vehicle by which Bankstown gets additional traffic. 
-The States Grants (Rural Adjustment) Bill 1976 is a significant piece of legislation, in fact too significant to be brought down in the dying stages of the session. Both the public and the rural industry, which is becoming disenchanted with the coalition Government, should have been given a greater opportunity to study and debate this Bill. The Opposition welcomes the Government's belated action on the Industries Assistance Commission's rural reconstruction report of January 1976, a report which was originally commissioned by the Labor Government in April 1974. 
The Opposition supports in principle the attempts which have been made in this Bill to rationalise this particular form of assistance to the rural sector. We consider the amalgamation of previous industry orientated reconstruction schemes into one rural adjustment scheme covering all farmers in the rural sector as desirable and we support the expansion of the provisions of the scheme to include farm improvement carry-on finance and household support, and an increase in the amount being made available to individual applicants for rehabilitation purposes. However, it is not what the Government has achieved in this Bill, but what it has omitted to do, which causes concern to the Opposition. The Government appears to have passed up a unique opportunity to construct a viable and consistent adjustment assistance policy tailored to the long term adjustment needs of the rural sector, and to provide the necessary administrative machinery to ensure that this form of assistance is effective, and can itself adapt to the changing needs of the rural community. 
The questions raised by this Bill in its present form relate directly to how the Government views the whole issue of assistance to the rural sector and its sincerity in constructing policies which will have a lasting and beneficial impact on the long term viability of agriculture in Australia. For the Opposition it is not so much a question of whether you assist, but how you assist the rural section. We are concerned that the advances which have been made in adopting several recommendations of the IAC rural reconstruction report could be diminished because the Government has only gone half way, only done the bare minimum, in establishing adjustment assistance as a preferred means of assistance to the rural sector. 
It is on the question of assistance philosophy that the Opposition differs from the Government and differs markedly. The issue of rural adjustment assistance and the role it is to play in future agricultural policy in Australia must be viewed against the significant changes which have occurred in its structure of the rural sector since the war, and the sector's ability in a social and economic sense to respond autonomously to changes in its economic environment. There has been a sharp decline in the number of male farmers plus unpaid male family labour, from 240 000in 1952-53 to an estimated 183 000 in 1975-76. Those figures are provided by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. There has been considerable product diversification in agriculture with increases in the average size of farms and the level of output, while a decline in the number of farms. Productivity growth has largely been due to the inflow of capital into agriculture and the substitution of capital and purchased inputs for labour. Population living in rural areas has declined in an overall sense. As costs for the farmer have risen dramatically and the price obtained for his or her output has not grown proportionately, the importance of off-farm employment as a source of income has increased. 
The factors which have contributed to this structural change in the rural sector need to be understood adequately if Government is to respond to them with well considered and relevant assistance measures. Changing patterns of domestic and international demand for the output of the rural sector, and prices obtained for that output, can exert quite severe pressures on the structure of the rural sector; the rate of domestic and international inflation also is a factor. The increasing availability of new farm technology; the general level of economic activity at home and abroad; the ravages of drought and storm, the exchange rate fluctuations- we have seen plenty of that in the last few days- and the actions of Government in various fields, all constitute pressures on the internal structure of the rural sector. Industry structures do not grow overnight. They develop over periods in response to various pressures and policies of government. 
It has been the ill conceived 'subsidy and concession' mentality, if one likes or assistance measures pursued over a long period by successive Liberal-National Country Party Governments, which have encouraged the formation of an industry structure in agriculture today with the capacity to produce far in excess of the capacity of the domestic and international market to consume. 
The recent devaluation of the Australian dollar is another example of how this Government has attempted to dress up long term losses in the guise of short term gain to the rural community. The questions the Opposition poses are these: Has the Country Party so called, explained to the rural community why the income effects of the devaluation will only benefit some farmers and not others, or how the increase in freight rates will erode the devaluation gain to some industries in the rural sector? Will the Liberal Party explain and justify to the rural producer why he will be called upon to pay higher prices for many of his manufactured and imported inputs because of the massive levels of effective protection now protecting manufacturing projects, or why the farmer must once again face the prospect of a long term squeeze through costs, which will inevitably flow from this devaluation? As late as this evening on the question of costs, the Government introduced a statement on tariffs which failed to do anything effectively with the reduction in the overall protection which has now been accorded by way of tariffs flowing from the effects of devaluation. 
It has been estimated that on the importation of tractors alone this could lead to an extra cost of at least $30m a year, in addition to the cost of importing harvesters, balers, other farm equipment and chemicals consumed by the rural sector. Fuel prices also are expected to rise by 3c to 4c a gallon because of devaluation. Has the mouthpiece of various sectors explained to the rural community that if the expected large export earnings of the small number of predominantly overseas owned mining companies materialises, and the need to revalue arises because the balance of payments moves into a surplus situation, that many of the short term gains to the rural sector of devaluation will be eroded and eroded seriously? The present coalition Government promised rural producers domestic economic stability and responsible economic management. All it has delivered is the long term prospect of economic instability, a continued squeeze on income through rising domestic costs, and increasing pressures for structural adjustment in the long term. It is these factors which have made the development of an efficiently administered and effective structural adjustment policy, tailored to the special long term adjustment needs of the rural community, a matter of urgency. 
Considering this Bill in detail the Opposition supports the various additional provisions such as farm improvement carry-on finance and household support, contained in the legislation. The Opposition considers farm improvement is an important area where Government participation in providing assistance can improve the productivity and mobility of on-farm resources, especially where the commercial credit market is unwilling or unable to supply credit for adjustment purposes. 
An important factor which has contributed to productivity growth in the rural sector has been the inflow of capital, and the gradual substitution of capital inputs for labour. Developments in farm technology and escalating labour costs will increase the importance of capital to future farm production. 
It was the Labor Party in government which first recognised the value and the need for this type of assistance when it allocated moneys under its Dairy Adjustment Program to assist viable dairy farmers finance technological improvements such as conversion to bulk milk vats. 
The skim milk powder surplus is a world surplus- caused by the same kind of useless, senseless ideology as the National Country Party supports. 
The internal policies of the European Economic Community countries fostered an over-supply in skim milk powder as the honourable member well knows. The EEC released that on the market and destroyed the international industry. On a smaller scale, the National Country Party does the same thing. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest that the honourable member for Murray restrains himself from interjecting. He will be speaking on this Bill at a later stage and I suggest he keep his comments to himself until then. I call the honourable member for Blaxland. 
-The provision for carry-on finance in the new scheme is also a welcome addition. There are factors which, from time to time, lead to financial difficulties for a farmer, which are completely outside his control, such as the actions of foreign governments in operating restrictive quotas on beef as has occurred in Japan and the United States of America. In these critical periods the farmer often has difficulty in raising carry-on finance from existing commercial sources at interest rates which do not prejudice his long term viability. Carry-on finance may be desirable in these circumstances to avoid the long term economic costs of unnecessary resource movements out of the industry where the need exists to hold resources in that industry in the short term. 
The welfare measures announced under the household support provision also receive the support of the Opposition. Having seen more than 2000 farmers on the dole in its time of tenure or office, the Government is duty bound to provide suitable welfare proposals to maintain the income of farmers who are judged to be nonviable, up to the level of unemployment benefit prevailing in the community at large. We do question however, whether the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has given consideration to instructing that the recipients of household support be referred to the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations and the Department of Social Security, to alert such recipients to alternative opportunities available outside the rural sector. The Opposition supports also the increase in the rehabilitation loan from $3,000 to $5,000. 
Our criticism of the Government's current approach to rural adjustment as contained in this Bill, as I said earlier, relates not to what has been done, but to what has not been achieved by the legislation in its present form. The Opposition concentrates its criticism in four main areas: The first is the lack of a concrete commitment to adequate review provisions in the Bill. 
The Opposition intends to move an amendment to the motion for the second reading and to move amendments in the Committee stage. Those amendments, if carried, would overcome much of our objection to the deficiency of the legislation. Secondly, the Bill makes only fleeting reference to special assistance to selected industries, and total ignorance of the needs for area adjustment measures. Thirdly, no indication is given by the Government that it intends expanding the counselling services provided by State extension services. Fourthly the Opposition seeks clarification from the Government that the commercial emphasis of rural adjustment assistance has in fact been strengthened through the interest rate on which these funds will be made available to individual applicants. 
I referred earlier to the second reading amendment which we proposed to move. It states: 
. while not opposing the provisions of the Bill the House is concerned that the proposed agreement is restricted to land based primary industries. 
In other words matters like fisheries are not mentioned in the legislation yet there are 16 000 fishermen in Australia with a combined income of about $100m. This is a significant part of primary industry which is not mentioned in the legislation. In the Committee stages we will be moving an amendment to the Schedule of the Bill, to add a new Part 8 headed 'National Rural Adjustment Board'. This amendment will provide for the establishment of a national rural adjustment board. The composition of the board will be an executive  chairman,  2 part-time members drawn from rural industry, and 2 members drawn from the States' rural reconstruction authorities and selected on a rotational basis for a term of no more than 2 years. This, of course, is referred to in the Industries Assistance Commission report. 
The IAC rural reconstruction report was quite specific in its comments on the need for some form of administrative machinery at the national level to co-ordinate, evaluate and plan rural adjustment assistance. In making such a proposal the Commission has left no doubt about the importance it feels this form of assistance should play in future agricultural policy. There is a need to provide a more effective monitor to evaluate the progress of reconstruction clients, to research the effects of the scheme so it can be adapted to changing adjustment needs, and to monitor the administration of the scheme at the State level in the interest of equitable and consistent treatment for all farmers. Frequent reviews are also necessary to assist the factors first mentioned. The IAC report states that without precluding special meetings between the Australian Government and the States, there be at least two official meetings a year in all State authorities. The Opposition regards regular reviews as essential to maintain reasonable flexibility and effectiveness of the scheme. 
The second area where the Opposition considers the Bill is deficient is its ignorance of the proper need for area oriented adjustment measures. A severe market downturn may occur in a rural industry on which the economic prosperity of a particular region may depend, thus creating problems of adjustment which go far beyond the farm gate. This occurs especially where long term prospects in that industry are not encouraging. 
The existence of an administrative machinery at the national level could prove useful in identifying the need for specific adjustment measures, and in formulating special areas assistance policy in close consultation with the State authorities concerned. No indication has been given by the Minister on how the Government proposes to approach this important aspect of adjustment policy. 
The IAC report stated the need for adequate counselling services for both viable and nonviable producers- but it is not mentioned in the Bill. The Commission also considered that existing State extension services and appropriate Commonwealth departments be expanded to cater for the counselling needs of farm families. There appears to be no provision made by the Government to advise rural producers of the new provisions of the scheme, to extend the facilities of State extension services to assist and advise applicants in filing applications, or to provide follow-up advice on management to farmers remaining in the industry. 
For those assessed as non-viable a need exists to ensure that those people are adequately counselled on alternatives outside of farm production to give them some future other than in agriculture. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics found that inadequate counselling was a major factor in the scant use of the rehabilitation provisions under the old rural reconstruction scheme. What is the point of having these schemes if people are not adequately counselled about them. The Labor Party in government placed particular emphasis on this aspect of adjustment assistance, with special purpose allocations to broaden the scope of State extension services to include farm management advice. 
With regard to the rates of interest on which loans are made available to rural producers under Part A provisions of the scheme, the Opposition is still concerned that concessions are being built into the notion of farm viability through the present scheme. The Labor Party acknowledges that in setting target percentages for the various Part A provisions the Government has moved to ensure that a more consistent approach will be taken by the States in allocating moneys, thereby reducing inequities and inconsistencies in the treatment of farmers between States. However, the IAC was most explicit in recommendation5 of its report when it stated that 'the long term bond rate be the basic rate of interest for loans made for rural adjustment'. For the sceptics, the reference for this is page 79 of the report. 
The Opposition notes that the Government has made loans to the States under the relevant provisions of the scheme at 7 per cent, considerably below the long term bond rate at the moment and, of course, nothing like what it will be below the bond rate when interest rates blow their brains out following the Government's devaluation decision. We seek clarification from the Minister as to the rate of interest likely to be charged reconstruction applicants by the State authorities for adjustment finance, and whether this rate is likely to be substantially below the long term bond rate. 
The Opposition is also concerned that too much flexibility in the administration of the scheme at the State level may lead to inequitable treatment of farmers between the States. It should be noted that considerable discretion is given each State authority in fixing the rate of loan repayment and in administering particular loans so that flexibility should permit the relevant authority to suspend repayments or reduce them in the first years of the applicant's adjustment. 
In summary, the Opposition's attitude to the issue of structural adjustment assistance is clear. The Labor Party acknowledges the capacity of the rural sector to adjust autonomously to changes in its economic environment. However, it is apparent that there are factors which have inhibited the adjustment process, resulting in considerable economic and social cost to the individuals affected and to the community as a whole. These factors, of course, include the mobility of some rural capital, the limited availability of jobs in rural areas off the farm, and a natural reluctance and, in some cases, inability to relocate. The Labor Party takes the view that where the costs associated with structural adjustment are excessive, the Government has the responsibility to use its resources to facilitate the process of structural change. We prefer this type of assistance to the myriad of  ad hoc  subsidies and concessions which have typified the policy of our opponents. I particularly mention the good old National Country Party which, over a period of time, has encouraged people to move into various sectors of agricultural activity and has fostered over-production. With a change in the world market and the domestic market such people have found themselves on uneconomic farms- farms which were not viable. Finally we found that they had a welfare problem on their hands. This is what comes of a shabby approach to farm policy simply in support of electoral aims and endeavours or, to put it in its crudest form, policies for votes. 
Rural industry is confronting Government policy makers with difficult choices. However, the alternatives available are clear. At the national level we can continue to pursue protectionist policies which only aggravate the problems we intend to solve in the sectors or we can adopt the constructive approach of the Labor party which is to formulate long term restructuring policies which will eventually reduce this sector's dependence on protective forms of assistance. The Labor Party's goal is to pursue policies which will improve the productivity and mobility of rural resources, and to secure long term growth and efficiency in the rural sector. 
In our opinion, the Government has given inadequate consideration to developing adjustment assistance as an important tool of agricultural policy. It continues to pursue policies which are not in the long term interest of the sector, and for its neglect in this important area of policy it stands well and truly condemned.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I move: 
That all words after 'that' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: while not opposing the provisions of the Bill the House is concerned that the proposed agreement is restricted to land-based primary industries. ' 
As I indicated earlier, we will move a substantial amendment in the Committee stage. 
-On behalf of the Opposition, I move: 
At the end of the Schedule add the following new part: 
Part 8- NATIONAL RURAL ADJUSTMENT BOARD 
Establishment 
That a National Rural Adjustment Board be established. 
Composition of Board 
an executive Chairman; 
two part-time members drawn from rural industry, and 
two members, drawn from the States rural reconstruction authorities and selected, on a rotational basis for a term of no more than two years. 
Method of operation 
consult with State reconstruction authorities and other Federal and State departments on the annual fund requirements of the Rural Adjustment Scheme; 
arrange consultation between the State reconstruction authorities and the Australian Government concerning emergency short-term credit requirements when farm incomes are substantially reduced by a sudden market collapse or other severe situation; 
discuss with and liaise between State reconstruction authorities and agencies concerned with monitoring market prospects, such as the various commodity boards and Bureau of Agricultural Economics, to ensure that viability assessments are based on the most up-to-date information available; 
d ) monitor the progress of reconstruction clients, including those assessed not to have sound prospects of long-term commercial viability; 
evaluate the Rural Adjustment Scheme in terms of explicit policy objectives and guidelines; (0 research into the relative effects of various assistance measures in anticipation of responding to continuing adjustment pressures; 
conduct feasibility studies and evaluate areas of specific problems m adjustment and re-development proposals suggested by interested parties or other Government agencies, 
liaise at the national level with management of banks and other sources of farm credit. '. 
The Opposition has moved a substantial amendment to this legislation. I was interested to hear the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  acting on behalf of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  rationalise away the Opposition's amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. I should like to see him rationalise away this amendment. I should like to say in passing that the Attorney-General is extending more courtesy in this debate on primary industry than does the Minister for Primary Industry. In fact rarely do we have the company of the Minister for Primary Industry in the House during debates on his own legislation. He rarely affords the courtesy of debating primary industry matters with us. I think that the Minister should be here to deal with an amendment as important as the one I have just moved on behalf of the Opposition. 
The amendment moved by the Opposition is an important amendment. It is an amendment which flows from the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission in respect of the question of a national marketing board. Such a board is needed to co-ordinate reconstruction throughout Australia. In his second reading speech the Minister stated: 
The rural adjustment scheme is essentially a joint CommonwealthState operation. Broadly the Commonwealth will provide the funds for the scheme while the States will be primarily responsible for the detailed administration of it in accordance with policies agreed between the Commonwealth and the States. 
This concept of a national rural adjustment board does not detract from that arrangement. It does not mean that there would be a monopoly in terms of Commonwealth management of reconstruction. It would just mean that there would be a central co-ordinating body which would liaise with the States. This would overcome the position which the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  raised, namely, that in some States farmers are encouraged to move out of an industry while in other States farmers are moving into that same industry. There is no national co-ordination. 
If honourable members look at the amendment they will find that under the heading  Method of operation ' it states: 
consult with State reconstruction authorities and other Federal and State departments on the annual fund requirements . . . 
There is no intention to run this body from Canberra. Sub-paragraph (b) says that this body is to consult with the States in respect of emergency, short term credit requirements. I thought that that would be in keeping with the general intention of the present legislation. Subparagraph (c) says that this body is to liaise with the State reconstruction authorities on monitoring market prospects and the various commodity boards, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the like. The board is to monitor the progress of clients, evaluate rural adjustment schemes in terms of policy objectives, and conduct feasibility studies. 
The last sub-paragraph is the important one. It states that the board is to liaise with the banking system and other sources of farm credit. It is not the intention of the Opposition that this national rural adjustment board would be a monopoly, that it alone would hold all the wisdom and would manage reconstruction of rural enterprises in Australia, but just that it would provide a coordinating base. I quote the following from the IAC report: 
A statutory body could be established, a suggested name being the National Rural Adjustment Board. 
The IAC went on to say: 
The establishment of such a Board would ensure concurrent contact with the farming community and State authorities and set rural adjustment policy in a non-partisan framework. 
That is an eminently sensible suggestion. The honourable member for Fraser said that the Government should have preceded this legislation with legislation to establish such a board. I agree that that should have been the first step. 
Finally, I think that the Labor Party, when in government, brought more attention to the need for reconstruction. The various schemes it implemented when in government have led now to a greater understanding and acceptance of the notion of reconstruction and adjustment rather than the other general trend of policy towards stabilisation in commodities which invariably meant overproduction or subsidised overproduction so that finally no real assistance was given to industry and no guidance was given to various sectors of agriculture for the long term future. We believe that there is a pressing need for a national co-ordinating instrument. If it is to be national, it has to be a body established by the national Parliament. We suggest a national rural adjustment board, as mentioned by the IAC. Perhaps I should just deal with the proposed membership. The board should have an executive  chairman,  2 part-time members drawn from rural industry and 2 members drawn from the State rural reconstruction authorities on a rotating basis. Automatically there would be this cross-feed of information with the States and with the industry. There would not be a monopoly situation. For the life of me, I cannot see on what basis the Government can reject such an amendment. 
I put it to the Attorney-General that he will need to explain very cogently, as I am sure he is able to do, why the Government would reject such a reasonable proposition. It is not a crazy notion. It is something which I think is necessary. It is something which can be defended. I believe that it is something with which the State reconstruction authorities and State Ministers would agree- that is, the establishment of a national rural adjustment board. The Opposition commends this amendment to the Committee. I think I can be bold enough to say that if this amendment is not agreed to the Labor Party, in government, certainly would enact legislation which would lead to the establishment of a national rural adjustment board. 
Has the Prime Minister read the trans-continental natural gas pipeline feasibility study prepared by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation? Does the Government concede that at least on the advice of this study the economics of a trans-continental line may be established? Has the Prime Minister approved of the Government's negotiating with the Australian Gas Light Corporation for the sale of the Gidgealpa-Sydney natural gas line presently owned and operated by the Pipeline Authority? In view of the growing importance of natural gas to the Australian economy, how does the Prime Minister justify the Government's jettisoning this natural asset in the interests of the commercial enterprise? 
I ask a question of the Minister for National Resources. Did the Minister hold scheduled talks with the Japanese steel delegation led by  Mr Saburo  Tanabe in Canberra yesterday? What was the outcome of those talks? Did the Minister inform  Mr Tanabe  and the delegation that the principle of government supervision of resource negotiations established under the Labor Government was still in force? If not, why not? 
-The Opposition is certainly sympathetic to the terms of the matter of public importance introduced by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  which relates to: 
The plight of Australia 's beef producers. 
I might say that throughout the period that the Labor Government was in office we were always conscious of that situation and we were interested in the Australian beef industry. One wonders why the honourable member for Kennedy should introduce such a matter of public importance, particularly at this time.  His  remarks probably gave him away, because when referring to the reconstructed Australian Meat Board he said: 
If the composition were announced before lunchtime today it would not be too soon. 
In other words, he is saying that his own Government has been tardy in setting up that organisation. 
Let us look at what the  Land  newspaper had to say on 1 7 December. It carries an article headed: 'Sinclair Warned' with the subheading: 'UFWA in uproar over delays on marketing decisions '. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I do not intend to be interrupted all afternoon. I listened to the honourable member for Kennedy in silence and I want the same respect from honourable members opposite. The article headed: Sinclair Warned ' reads as follows: 
Speed up decisions on important rural matters- or be sacked ... the United Farmers and Woolgrowers' Association put this ultimatum this week to the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  . . . particularly with suggested meat and wool marketing reforms. 
The honourable member for Kennedy said that an announcement should be made as to the composition of the reconstructed Meat Board. That organisation has not even been established yet, much less the composition of it announced. The honourable member also talked about the fact that cattle producers are the victims in terms of export returns. Indeed they are. What did his Government do? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Kennedy has already made his speech on this matter of public importance, and I suggest that he does not interject during the speech of the honourable member for Blaxland. I call the honourable member for Blaxland. 
The Government lifted the meat inspection charges and the Opposition made it plain that that money would go directly to the exporters and not to the producers, and that in fact has been the case. Now the Government is crying about the fact that the producers are getting nothing. The honourable member for Kennedy is trying to save his skin up in northern Queensland, while the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  a member of his own Party, will do absolutely nothing about the reconstruction of the Meat Board and will not do anything substantial about the state of the beef industry. 
Let us look at the record. When Labor was in government we granted $39.6m directly for carry-on loans to the beef industry and we provided for a further $8m in our last Budget, making a total of $47.5m. Yet all that has come to fruition after all the promises of the halcyon days of the 1975 election campaign, when the Leader and the Deputy Leader of the National Country Party were running all over Australia making wild promises, is a States Grants (Beef Industry) Bill which provides $ 15m in carry-on loans. Yet honourable members opposite have the hide and the temerity to criticise us for making $47.5m available to the beef industry. I think we should just recall for a moment what the Minister for Primary Industry said during the election campaign. I shall read from an article in the  Australian  of 18 August 1975 which is headed: Sinclair puts plan to save the beef industry' and it reads: 
The program calls for carry-on finance for beef producers, claiming the present $39.6m government allocation is inadequate. It is understood the Country Party wants at least $ 100m lent to producers at 4 per cent interest with an initial 2-year interest moratorium. 
The Minister has said other things to which I shall refer. This is a report which appeared in another newspaper: 
Beef crisis is a social and economic crisis', says Ian Sinclair. 
The time is rapidly passing for the Australian Government to take action to relieve the position of the Australian beef industry . . .' 
The Government has been in office now for just on 2 years yet we have not seen any substantial improvement in the Australian beef industry. Let us look at exports. Seventy per cent of Australia 's beef exports go to the United States and 52 per cent of United States imports come from Australia. The United States is our only export market for some categories of meat, particularly that which comes from the Northern Territory and from Queensland. When the Minister for Primary Industry went to Canada in the middle of last year he was instrumental in having increased quotas placed upon the import of Australian beef into the United States. I shall read a report from Ottawa which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 1 7 June: 
The Australian Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  told Canadian officials today he was concerned that Australian beef was being re-exported from Canada to the United States at less than home market prices. 
In short he was saying: 'My producers back home are dumping beef on you'. That is the long and short of it. As Minister for Primary Industry he went outside this country and put his own beef industry in to the Canadian officials who very quickly took the cue, as did the United States Department of Agriculture in an election year, and shoved the quotas back on. The blame for that can be laid right at the door of the Minister for Primary Industry. Yet the honourable member for Kennedy, like a humbug, talks about the state of the beef industry but is not prepared to take his own Minister to task. All he says is that the Minister has not appointed some people to a board which has not yet been established. That is all he has had to say. 
Let me deal with a couple of other matters concerning the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Here is another excellent example of the shoddy way in which the Government has treated the Australian beef industry and the interests of beef producers in this country. I refer honourable members to a story which appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  last Friday which is headed: 'How 60 million lb of beef got lost at dinner'. The article is written by Robert Haupt from Washington. This is a real pearl of a story and it demonstrates the complete incompetence which the Prime Minister displays when he goes overseas. The article reads: 
It was following that dinner that a small, select group of men sat down in a spirit of good intentions to thrash out one of the issues then clouding Australian-American relations: beef imports. 
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Earl Butz first raised the topic. 
Attending the dinner were the  President  of the United States, Earl Butz, the Prime Minister, Henry Kissinger, and the Australian Ambassador to the United States. The article goes on to say: 
In any event, the ball was in the Australian court. Just what was the complaint? 
Here they are sitting down after dinner and asking the Australian Prime Minister, who professes an interest in his own beef industry, and the Australian Ambassador, their basic complaint on beef because the United States Administration would like to try to do something about it. Haupt goes on to say: 
The real answer, at that point, was an arbitrary ruling by United States Customs, including in the quota year 1975 34.4 million lb of Australian meat that Australia says arrived in 1974. 
That was, quite simply, meat that Australia felt it was entitled to ship to the United States. 
Here were the United States Secretary of State and Secretary of Agriculture at least pretending to lend a sympathetic ear to a gripe Australia has had for more than a year. 
The Australians fumbled the chance. No one could remember the correct figure for the amount of meat involved. 
The Prime Minister left it to the Ambassador,  Mr Nicholas  Parkinson, who left it to the Australian senior trade representative to Washington,  Mr Jack  Smith, who, having no one further down the line to leave it to, came up with what was apparently just an inspired guess: 60 million lb. 
The Prime Minister, who'd had briefing books on the subject, and the Ambassador, who'd been ultimately in charge of negotiations in the period leading up to the visit, did not demur. 
They agreed with the figure of 60 million lb. The article continues: 
Neither, for that matter, did Secretary Butz or Secretary Kissinger. Kissinger made some sympathetic noises about having a look at the question, and that was it for the night. 
Except for one thing. Leaving, Smith asked Fraser what were his instructions. Fraser replied curtly that he should go for double. 
That shows the level of competence displayed by this Government in the United States in relation to the Australian beef industry. When the American  President,  the American Secretary of State and the American Secretary of Agriculture sit down with the Australian Prime Minister and the Australian Ambassador and ask them what their problem is in relation to United States imports of Australian beef, not one of the 2 Australian representatives knew what was the point at issue or that the figure was 34 million lb instead of 60 million lb. So what finally happened was that the United States Administration caught up with the facts. It then realised that neither Fraser as Prime Minister, nor Parkinson as Ambassador, knew what was at issue. The United States Administration just politely and promptly dropped it. To add insult to injury, the newspaper article continues by stating: 
In fact, the way the Prime Minister raised it - that was the beef issue- was to ask the  President  as the discussions were being wound up whether it would be OK with him if he (Fraser) were to say they had discussed beef. 
In other words, the Prime Minister did not discuss beef with the United States  President  but asked the  President  whether he would agree to say that he had. If that is not showing contempt for your own beef industry I do not know what is. Later in the year the Prime Minister had the temerity, because the National Country Party was kicking at him, to write a dirty letter to Ford in the middle of an election year and asked Ford to go back on the quota decision, after Fraser had asked Ford to include in the communique that they had discussed beef when in fact they had not. Yet this humbug comes in here to talk about the beef industry. He has never done anything positive about agricultural marketing in his life. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has just turned down the Australian Wool Corporation in the finality of the Corporation's Clans, and honourable members know this. Yet h e has the indecency to criticise us for what happened with wool. We fixed the floor price plan for wool and allocated $3 50m on the line to prop up the Australian wool industry. We set up the marketing proposals for the wheat industry. We have done the only substantial things that have been done for the beef industry. Yet the honourable member crawls into this House today and claims that the Government is sympathetic to the beef industry. Let me quote what was said by the honourable member's leader because  Mr Anthony's  remarks were quoted by the honourable member for Kennedy during the debate. This lays the matter to rest. I quote directly from a speech made by the Leader of the National Country Party in 1973. Honourable members should listen to this. He stated: 
The Country Party believes that Government policy inasmuch as it relates to the beef industry should be directed to: 
the encouragement of production. 
I stress those words 'the encouragement of production'. He went on to state: 
If, as appears likely, a world beef shortage is developing, then Australia must respond in the most effective manner possible to meet this position. 
Of course, the Liberal-Country Parry Government up to that time had encouraged beef production in Australia. They have now found that markets are not available for it. What we are facing now is a massive social crisis in some sections of the beef industry. There is a need for firm reconstruction policy, a lead which the Party of the honourable member for Kennedy is incapable of giving. 
Let us get down to the real issues. The present Government has been in office since December 1973. It has had all that time to do something firm about the plight of the Australian beef industry. It has removed the meat inspection levy and handed the benefit squarely to meat exporters and not to producers. We told the Government that that would happen, yet it still gave it to the exporters because the real friends of this Government are not the beef producers but the meat companies who are friendly with the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume),  who is on the board of one such company, and the Minister for Primary Industry. The Government was happy to give them a little more to go into their pockets. If honourable members do not believe me they should refer to the statistics made available to this House by the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  relating to the profits of the meat exporting companies this year. Those profits have skyrocketed in the past 12 months because of the Government's policy. But where is the producer? The producer is left destitute because all that the Government has done since it came to office has been to creep in here with an amendment to a Labor Party piece of legislation by which it will provide $ 1 5m in carry on loans to the beef industry, whereas the Labor Party when in government provided $47.5m to that industry. We have had enough of the Government's humbug, its duplicity and its deceit. It has let the beef producers down. It has consistently let agriculture down. We will not tolerate or let the Government get away with this snide attempt to exonerate the Minister for Primary Industry from his task. 
Every rural newspaper in this country is critical of the behaviour of the Minister for Primary Industry. They say he is lax in his job; that he is incompetent; that he cannot be trusted overseas; that he sells industry down the drain. They are correct. The point is that if the Government wants to be credible on agriculture it needs to develop some sensible marketing policy, some stabilisation policies and some readjustment policies. All the Government has done in all the years it has been in government is to foster more production, thereby creating over-supply. Ultimately we have seen industries and families go destitute. So enough of the Government's humbug. We on this side of the House support the Australian beef industry and are sympathetic to its plight. But we will not watch Government supporters come in here and try to exonerate an incompetent Minister for his incompetence and his lack of sympathy for an industry which is in dire economic circumstances. 
-I give notice that on general business Thursday No. 9, I shall move: 
That the House of Representatives, noting the report of the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of Parliament, presented to both Houses on 30 September 197S, and accepting the recommendations made by the Joint Committee, resolves in the terms outlined in the notice moved in similar terms by me and listed for general business on the previous notice paper. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-The address written for  Her  Majesty outlining the Government's program was positive proof of a total lack of any policy direction by the Government. Apart from a few glib references to the productive area of the private sector, the Speech was characteristic of the intellectual bankruptcy of the Fraser Government. Australia's economic problems were dealt with blithely with this one line: 
My Government is not only taking action to restore the economy . . . 
Then the Speech goes on to waffle about the fundamental well being and freedom of the Australian people. The Speech characteristically dwells upon the miniscule housing voucher pilot scheme and the family allowance scheme which, it is worth noting, took money on the one hand from the bread winner of the family and handed it back to the mother without effecting a cost to revenue. Yet that initiative is promoted in the address as being a great social change. If the Australian people were looking to that Speech for any guide to the Government's economic policy they were badly let down. This Government has now made it clear that it has no policy whatsoever and that it intends to bluff its way through to the next election with an attack upon the work force on the wages front as the only basis of its political survival. 
Let us take the opportunity of looking at the promises that won the Fraser Government power in 1975. We will note that, as I said earlier, characteristically they are absent from the Speech of Her Majesty. 
During the election period the main plank of the Government's platform was to reduce inflation and unemployment. Another was to abolish rural poverty and to increase the real level of farm incomes. Then there was the promise to start some of the major mineral projects that have been waiting upon world markets for commencement. Not one of these promises rated a mention in the speech by  Her  Majesty. This was because the Fraser Government has been shown to be unable to honour the commitments that it made during that general election campaign. 
The point is that the economic managers have failed to perform and none of these important commitments has been fulfilled. Yet the Prime Minister of this country  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was prepared, as a Leader of the Opposition, to tear up the social fabric of Australia, abuse the prerogatives of the Senate and to do anything to tear the Labor Government out of office so that his Party could, in its view, seal the doom of the Government which was destroying the economy. He was given the prime ministership of this country without a majority in the House of Representatives and elected to government to do as I said, that is, to reduce inflation and unemployment, to abolish rural proverty and to start some developmental projects in this country. He has failed on all 3 counts. 
Let us consider the economy and some of the indicators which tell the tale of the performance of this Government. I refer to the production statistics. The latest production index of the Australian and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd shows production in Australia to be stagnant. The Australian Bureau of Statistics production statistics for January show falls in output levels exceeding rises at a rate of approximately three to one. In retail sales the picture is the same. The momentum appeared to pick up somewhat in November but fell off dramatically in December. When deflated for price rises, retail sales at the end of December were at the June level. Retail sales in January fell a further 2.5 per cent. Yet the Prime Minister wants to reduce spending power by reducing wages and at the same time is telling people to have confidence and to spend their money. On what basis can any Australian employer invest in productive capacity when sales are down and capacity is presently underutilised? Of course, there cannot be any improvement in the investment picture and, therefore, there can be no improvement in job creation. 
Take the rate of inflation as an example because this was a single solitary policy plank harped on by the Fraser Government during the general election campaign. The consumer price index increased by 6 per cent in the December quarter, bringing it to the highest level since the Korean War in 1951, which was a record. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  even claimed that this was not a true indication of the picture. He said that there was the Medibank blip. If he wants to refer to the Medibank blip, it is a consequence of the wilful policy of the Prime Minister who, on an ideological basis, broke another specific election promise, upset the Medibank arrangements and imposed this cost upon the community. In fact, it was a tax which led to an increase in the cost of living and showed up in the index. Now the Government is running to the courts trying to squeeze the Medibank component of the 6 per cent out of wages. In other words, it wants to let the person in the street carry the total cost of that without being compensated for it in their wage packets. 
Even without the Medibank component prices rose in that period by 2.8 per cent. This was happening before the effects of the devaluation were even felt. In the last 6 months of 1976 the CPI rose by 8.2 per cent. Honourable members should compare that figure with the figure for the last 6 months of the Labor Government in 1975. The rise then was 6.4 per cent. So much for the economic management of the Liberal Party. Within 12 months of the Government coming to office there has been a 2 per cent increase in the CPI above the increase for the same 6-monthly period when Labor was in government. Of course, the Medibank blip to which the Treasurer referred will blip on all year. He will have the first quarter blip, the second quarter bhp- the blip will last a whole 12 months and we shall see a massive increase in the CPI. Yet the Government will have the temerity to say to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that if it passes on the 6 per cent increase it will jeopardise the economy. Now  Mr Justice  Moore has to try to work out a way out of the problem. He has to try to determine a new basis of assessing the index and to try not to pass on the 6 per cent. 
When we said some time ago that the Government needlessly had upset the Medibank arrangements, that it should leave Medibank alone in line with the clear promise the Prime Minister gave, he pooh-poohed the scheme and introduced this abortion of a thing we have now. People, of course, now have to pay the money out of their back pockets. This is showing up in the index. Yet the Government, which said it would stand by the principle of wage indexationanother clear promise- is now backing off from that principle and wants to refuse the work force adequate adjustment, which it was given under this indexation arrangement. 
To add insult to injury, the devaluation was the final policy step which capped and sealed the doom of the Fraser Government, in economic terms at least, within the life of this Parliament. This decision, hastily entered into for the benefit of a couple of sectors of the economy, when added to the mixture of prices, will see Australia settling down to a level of hyperinflation during this year. Of course, this will have consequences in interest rates, inflation and, therefore, unemployment. So after 15 months of government all that we have seen from the great economic managers- the representatives of the establishment, the big banking and finance men- is the prospect of a bout of very high inflation. When one considers that the Labor Budget was thrown out because it was said to be such a bad Budget and not able to deal with the problems of inflation one can see the phoniness of the people who oppose us in this chamber. No political party in this country has ever survived politically the ravages of unemployment and inflation. I am now of the view that these problems will not be solved during the life of this Parliament. 
The level of unemployment has reached a post-war record. At the end of January it represented 5.8 per cent of the population or 354 600 people. Of course, that is a very low figure because a lot of people are not registering as unemployed and overtime is falling away. Overtime hours worked fell to 2.2 hours in December, which is back to the low levels of 1976. Work force participation increased by 100 000 people fewer than in the previous year. With this level of unemployment there is again an absence of people spending because they are not employed. They are not receiving adequate incomes, therefore there can be no consumer recovery. Without consumer recovery there can be no investment. Without investment there can be no job creation. So we have a vicious circle. But when the Labor Party when in government tried to introduce a wage indexation policy to slow down wage increases on the one hand and a slow cutback in the growth in government expenditure on the other- a happy mix in the Budget which would have reduced and brought these distortions into some sort of harmony- the Budget was thrown out because of the political tactics of our opponents. 
We find that under the restrictions of the other arm of the Government's policy, that is, its monetary policy, building society finance for home purchases and construction fell by 15.7 per cent m January, reflecting the severity of the Government's monetary policy. Property developers are falling over one after the other. All of the finance companies in Australia are writing off huge losses which came from the property boom earlier in the 1970s. But this is a symptom of the monetary policy of the present Government. It is sticking to a rigid rate of growth in the money supply, though the Treasurer is not admitting it. The Government has forced upon Australia by stealth a credit squeeze of fairly massive proportions which probably will lead to an increase in interest rates and a severe curtailment of the amount of money available in the community for lending. So the building industry and other industries which survive upon the availability of finance will have no opportunity whatsoever to get themselves off the ground and to get started again. Of course, the severity of this squeeze is affecting some States more particularly than others. 
If one looks across the board at the monetary policy of the Government, unemployment, inflation and the performance of the Government one sees a dismal failure by the Government with no prospect in the life of this Parliament of any improvement at all in the economic indicators. We will have a crude policital ploy by the Government to tough it out, to brave face the indicators and to say, as the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  said, that the unemployment figures are a myth. The Government will take this line of approach and turn the whole attack back on to the work force. There will be confrontation with the unions about the industrial bureau and the like and pressure applied to reduce the real level of wages. This will be the Government's policy approach which it believes will carry it through successfully to the next general election. It will need a lot of luck for that to happen because one thing that the dismissal of the Whitlam Government did for the Australian community was to raise very sharply the level of political awareness of this community. The community will not tolerate these broken promises of and lack of performance by the Government, particularly when it was elected on the basis of those promises. We recall the ruthless manner in which it came to office on the specific promise of reducing inflation and unemployment. It failed in those specific areas. 
I turn to the question of resources. As I mentioned earlier there are 3 areas of undertaking: The economy; the restoration of rural incomes and the abolition of rural poverty; and the improvement on the resources front. After 3 years of attack and vilification by the present Government upon the former Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  for failing to start new projects, the present Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and the Government have not one new major project off the ground in 15 months- not one! Yet this alleged failure was again one of the reasons why the previous Government had to be thrown out. The export approvals which had been given by the previous Government have been repeated. The Government has said that it will allow the Norwich Park company to export its coal. It has given the same kinds of approvals in respect to a couple of other projects. But in fact no commencements have occurred in this respect. 
The greatest demonstration of the ineptitude of the Government and particularly of the National Country Party was the dismal performance of the Acting Minister for National Resources,  Mr Nixon,  on his recent visit to Japan.  Mr Nixon  and  Mr Sinclair,  2 of the senior Ministers on that delegation, failed to exact any important commitments from Japan in the minerals area whatsoever. They chased only minor agricultural concessions and allowed the Japanese once again to reassert their bargaining dominance in the mineral resources area. They achieved a small increase in beef quotas and chased some school lunch franchise. These 2 Australian Government Ministers lead a major delegation to Japan and come back with some increase in the beef quotas and school lunch franchise.  Mr Nixon  attacked the work force in the Pilbara. He obligingly accepted the assurances on export tonnages for coal and iron ore which were given by the Japanese and which blind Freddie knows will not be honoured. Of course the Japanese saw him coming and gave him the line which, of course, the Labor Government had refused many times. 
It was also interesting to note that  Mr Nixon  on returning to Australia said that he was happy to accept the premise of the Ninayama agreement of 1975 for increases in the amount of coal to be sold from Australia to Japan. When the 
Labor Government announced the agreement between Nippon Steel and the Australian Government, it was pooh-poohed as a confidence trick, as a phoney ploy, to take attention away at the time from the loans affair. Now of course the Government falls back on the agreement and says that in reality it does exist and the Government will depend on it. There was no discussion of natural gas exports and there was no resolution of Japan's interest in the natural gas question, which I thought was one of the prime considerations. Of course the Government has been silent on the information which we should have gained on what commitments it made with the Japanese on uranium. Overall the delegation retreated from Australia's hard-won negotiating position of recent years and failed to establish any significant advance in the trading relationship between Australia and Japan. 
The Press had the hide to report that the trip was successful and was a new step along the way in building relations between Australia and Japan. What happened a couple of weeks ago? The Japanese resource negotiators came here to try to convince Australian companies and the Federal and State Governments that they could not afford price increases and that there would have to be reductions in tonnages. The whole visit turned out to be a complete and total flop. Again these great business managers, these men of finance, banking and commerce, went up to the industrial colossus in Japan and were sent packing back to Australia empty-handed. Now the Australian extractive industries are saying: We might not have liked Connor but at least we got profits out of him'. The coal price increased 350 per cent in 3 years of the Labor Government. We went to Japan and made it clear that Australian resources were to be sold at world parity prices and no less. Now the industry is calling on the Minister for National Resources to do the same and to stop persisting with the foolish notion that it is a commercial transaction with the Australian companies dealing commercially with Nippon Steel or with the Japanese steel mills. The Japanese steel mills are a cartel. They have Nippon Steel and Sumitomo negotiating for the whole of the industry. The Government backs them right to the hilt. Anyone who speaks of 'Japan incorporated' is certainly very much to the point. One must admire the Japanese for it. They are sensible about the way they do their business. This Government persists with the notion that some south coast coal producer can go to Japan and negotiate a commercial deal. The steel mills just devour them one after the other. These producers cave in on prices and of course the whole industry loses. On 30 000 tonnes of coal the amount involved would be $60m. In iron ore we are losing up to $150m a year in income because the Government will not exercise its proper authority under the export control powers. The industry now has had a gut- ful of the Government and its nonsense about commercial enterprise and the rest. The industry wants some performance. There is an adage that in the days of the Labor Government there was no confidence but plenty of business; in these days there is plenty of confidence but no business. After a while it starts to hurt. Industry in Australia requires this Government to produce the goods that it promised in the days when it was in Opposition. 
I deal briefly and lastly with agriculture. For 3 years we heard the constant bleating by the National Country Party and the Liberals about the state of Australian agriculture. Yet in 15 months not one substantial thing has been done for the agricultural industries in this country. We heard a debate last week about beef. In 15 months the Government has extended the States grants beef assistance legislation by $ 15m only. In the Labor Government's term of office $47m was given to the beef industry. The Government lifted the export levy charge on beef and gave it back to the exporters. The industry received nothing from the levy. Throughout the 3 years of Labor Government the Country Party encouraged extra beef production. 
Last week I read all of the speeches of the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  urging the beef industry to increase production. This week he is talking about withholding beef from the market so that the price will go up. The Government has done absolutely nothing. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics estimates on net farm incomes are catastrophic. They indicate a complete social crisis in the countryside. I will refer to what the Bureau gives as projections for 1977 of net farm income as a return for capital investment, management and labour per week. In 1 974-75 the figure was $ 1 86; in 1975-76 it was $162.33; and the projection for 1976-77 is $125.87. The labour projection is $169.48. One can see quite clearly the dramatic fall which is taking place in rural incomes and one can witness the fall in property values in this country. 
-The purpose of the Bills with which we are dealing in this cognate debate is to extend the existing stabilisation scheme for the export of apples and pears to cover the 1977 season. Under the Government's legislation, the extension of the scheme will be based on a maximum level of support of $2 per box for apples, with a maximum quantity eligible for support of 2 million boxes; and for pears the support will be at a maximum level of 80c per box, covering a total quantity of up to 1 .4 million boxes. For apples the ambit of the scheme will be limited to sales at risk to Europe, including the United Kingdom. For pears the limitation will be on sales at risk to Europe, including the United Kingdom, and also to North America. 
The Opposition supports the broad spirit of this legislation but regards it as being inadequate. It seeks to have the Apple and Pear Stabilization Amendment Bill withdrawn and redrafted. Hence I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the House is of the opinion that the Bill should be withdrawn and re-drafted with a view to bringing forward a Bill which (a) increases the rate of stabilization payments to $3 per box of apples and $ 1 .20 per box of pears and /or (b) provides supplementary assistance measures to facilitate adjustments in the fruit growing industry and to provide assistance directly to individual fruit growers until such times as a coherent planned policy, by which the Australian fruit growing industry can prosper, is determined '. 
The present scheme has operated since 1971 and originally was designed to protect the apple and pear industry against sinusoidal movements in export income. Like many other horticultural industries, the apple and pear industry is facing stiff export competition in the areas which have been its traditional markets. The competitive position of the industry in these markets has declined in recent years because of increases in freight costs and the high labour inputs into Australian production. A great deal of manual labour is still necessary in the industry as it is difficult to increase its efficiency by capital intensification. So, with the dual trends of higher production costs and shrinking export markets, the industry now is facing continuing social crisis. It is because of this social crisis that the Opposition seeks to amend the legislation to help maintain the real incomes of growers and to secure adjustment within the industry that may allow it better to tailor its production to available markets. 
The $2 per box for apples and the 80c per box for pears mentioned in the legislation are the same as provided last year, and in the view of the Opposition are now inadequate. It is true that the real value of the $2 a box will be somewhat improved by the additional income accruing to growers from the devaluation of the Australian dollar. However, this is not an amount upon which growers may live and maintain their families. The Government wants the worst of all worlds for the fruit growing industry. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said flatly in his second reading speech that the Government does not accept the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission in respect of reconstruction; yet at the same time he will not provide growers with an incremental payment upon that made last year. The Government wants subservient farmers on the poverty line depending on it for a meagre existence. 
The Minister blithely said that the present level of support cannot continue indefinitely and suggested that the Government will be looking at the industry situation and considering the appropriate support level which might extend into 1978. The truth is that the Government will not look at the industry with a view to solving its problems at all. It thinks that by keeping this industry and the growers in it on subsistence incomes it is doing something humane each time it introduces this annual legislation. Growers have long been sceptical about the intentions of this Liberal-National Country Party Government and the eventual job of reconstruction that needs to be undertaken. Obviously the Minister hopes that the tree-pull schemes which operate within the industry will reduce further the level of production and bring with it a self-imposed rationalisation by growers that will leave a stable industry without the need for government surgery and without any cost to revenue. 
In the meantime, growers in the 2 export States of Tasmania and Western Australia face a depressing situation. While exports account for only about 25 per cent of Australia's apple production, these 2 States, because of their export bias, are the hardest hit. In Tasmania the proportion of production going to exports varies between 55 per cent and 65 per cent depending on the season and in Western Australia from 45 per cent to 60 per cent depending on the season. It is particularly in these 2 States that the Opposition believes its amendment proposing $3 a box for apples and $1.40 for pears will give substantial relief to growers. One can only hope that the Government has the decency and the sympathy to agree to the amendment without hesitation. 
The Minister, in his second reading speech, talked about a supplementary assistance program and said that some State governments had not been inclined to support this additional assistance. I know that the New South Wales Government and the South Australian Government take the view that assistance for export apples and pears is the province of the Australian Government and not the States, whereas the Tasmanian Labor Government will join a supplementary assistance program for 1977 which, jointly funded with the Commonwealth and the other exporting States, will provide an additional $lm to the industry. Last year, as I mentioned in my speech in the second reading debate on legislation of this nature in that year, the Tasmanian Government made an offer to the Minister for Primary Industry to extend cover additional to the stabilisation scheme to 340 000 boxes on a dollar for dollar basis with the Commonwealth. 
The Fraser Government refused this offer; so the Tasmanian Labor Government then extended its scheme to growers for an amount equal to that which would have been the State contribution to a Commonwealth-State arrangement. 
If the Government should be so insensitive as to refuse the Opposition's amendment on this occasion, I trust that at least the Tasmanian and Western Australian members of the Government Parties will fully support the Opposition's amendment. We have put the issues squarely before the Parliament. Let some of these honourable members put their vote where their mouth is. 
The honourable gentleman talks about last year. Last year his Government refused to enter a supplementary assistance scheme with the Tasmanian Government and the Tasmanian Government then had to extend $2 a box to the growers without the assistance of the Commonwealth. All the Commonwealth did was introduce its general scheme; it did not take up the Tasmanian Labor Government's offer. So we have heard enough humbug from the Government side of the House. We will see where the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  stands when the vote comes on this issue. We will see whether he believes that growers in his area are on subsistence levels. He and the honourable members for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  and Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  can stand up and be counted on the issue, instead of seeking to propose amendments that they know will not be carried and making big fellows of themselves in the States from which they come. This time they can stand up and put their vote where their mouth is. 
The other pieces of legislation which are part of the cognate debate are supplementary to the primary piece of legislation. They operate to complement that legislation in respect of the various separate funds that exist for the various types of fruit. The issue squarely remains this: Substantial adjustment needs to take place within this industry. The industry is facing a critical export crisis. Traditional markets overseas are shrinking and the domestic base is not large enough to take production. 
The approach of the Government in not accepting the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission, in not putting forward a positive plan for a rationalisation of the industry, has left growers in a subsistence situation in which they face a continuing social crisis. There can be only one answer: Let the Government bring in a comprehensive plan for the rationalisation of the industry or this year let it agree to the Opposition's proposal of $3 a box for apples and $1.40 a case for pears so that the growers will not be left on the poverty line, as the National Country Party and the Liberal Party would wish- subservient people, in their view, happy to take what is modestly handed out from Canberra in the hope that they will vote for those parties at the ensuing election. This time the growers can see that they are being treated in the same way this year as they were last year and that all the election promises made throughout 1975 will not be fulfilled. There will be no drastic legislation. There will be no surgery to clean up this industry and to help it rationalise itself. We on this side of the House are determined that at least those who are left foundering in the industry will have some assistance in excess of that provided by the Government. 
Is the Minister for National Resources aware of reports that  Sir Charles  Court has agreed with the North West Shelf natural gas consortium that the consortium should be allowed to export approximately 6.5 trillion cubic feet of natural gas? Is the Minister's own view and that of his Department that the figure should be 4 trillion cubic feet? Is it a fact that the High Court has given the Commonwealth absolute sovereignty in off-shore areas? Will the Minister assert this sovereignty and inform  Sir Charles  Court that the level of exports should be commensurate with the long term domestic demand for natural gas and that the Australian Government will be the final arbiter of the issue? 
-The facts speak for themselves in this regard. No matter how the Government tries to squirm out of it the issue is this: After the Fox inquiry presented its first report the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  made a short statement and there was a 2-hour debate. There has been no further public debate. He scurried in here today with a notice of motion to resurrect that debate onto the notice paper after he had been apprised of the fact that the Opposition was bringing this matter on for discussion. That condemns the Government from point one. That is the fact. The Government has not at any time tried to have a wide-ranging debate in the Parliament. We have asked for it; the Government has not given us a debate. There was a 2 to 214-hour debate some time ago and then the Minister cut if off. The Government said that there would be no decision on uranium export policy until the total report of the Fox inquiry had been evaluated. The issue is this: The Government decided that it would agree to uranium exports before it ever received the first report of the Fox inquiry. The notion about the Government waiting now on the second report is so much bunkum because the second report deals only with mining in the Northern Territory. It does not deal with the question of general exports, which was dealt with in the first report. When the first report was presented it was misinterpreted by the Government in the Minister's original statement about it. 
We on this side of the House are accused of not contributing to the debate. We are the only contributors so far on any major scale. The government says that we acted with indecent haste to determine our position. Let me put this matter to rest. On 11 November the Minister for the Environment made a statement about existing contracts, that is, contracts signed by the McMahon Government before 1972, and debate on that statement was to take place within a week of its having been presented. Over that weekend I, as spokesman on mineral and energy matters on this side of the House, was obliged to look over the matters raised by the Minister and contemplate a debate the following week. Obviously, because the Fox report was a new document the Labor Party had to decide on a parliamentary attitude to it in the light of the threatened debate and we did so. When we did that the Government called off the debate because it thought there would be no benefit in springing it upon the Opposition after it had sorted out its policy. That is the real issue. We did not want to be forced into a position in which we had to determine an attitude to it but nevertheless the first report is the vital report. It is the one which talks about uranium mining in the broad and export, not just mining in the Northern Territory as the second report does. 
We have raised this matter in the House. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  have spoken in this debate. I am the front bench spokesman in the Parliament on minerals and energy matters. What are we confronted with? The Minister for Environment, who is carrying the can for the Government on this issue, and a back bencher- the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)-  have spoken. I am not too sure who the third  speaker  on the Government side will be. What is wrong with the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  or the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  coming into this place and answering these vital questions? These resources are worth at market price $23,000m or thereabouts. There is no way in the world that the Minister's Party has not decided to allow the export of these minerals. Yet the Minister persists with the facade that the Government is waiting on the second Fox report. The Minister for Environment says he is keeping records. What is the good of records in his office or in his drawer or in saying: 'Look, the  Sydney Morning Herald  said this on that day and the Melbourne  Sun  said this'? So what? What does that matter? What we wanted was a little bit of goodwill from the Government in the original stages of the debate so that the nation could have perhaps settled down to a consensus about the issue but the Minister was not prepared to do that. 
I will just deal with the 1 1 November statement. The Government pledged on that occasion that it 'will not permit the export of uranium unless it is satisfied that there are adequate and proper safeguards on the handling, transport and processing  en route  and in respect of the ultimate consignee'. Let us see what the Fox report said about the safeguards: 
The Commission states that it recognises that these defects taken together are so serious that existing safeguards may provide only an illusion of protection. However, we do not conclude that they render valueless the aspect of international safeguard. We believe it is essential and possible to make safeguard arrangements more effective. 
That is what the commission had to say about existing safeguards. What was the Government 's response to that? In the document released by the Minister it said: 
The Government welcomes any international initiatives for strengthening international non-proliferation regimes. 
What a docile irresponsible attitude that is. This Government will sit and wait for someone else to develop the safeguards and if they are good enough they will do the Government. The whole thing is that there has now been some quick exchange of letters between the Australian and United States Governments. There was a letter from the Australian Prime Minister and a courteous response from the American Presidentcorrespondence based on the notion that the Australian Prime Minister is doing something tangible about safeguard development. In fact, nothing tangible is happening about safeguard development and there has been no attempt by the Government to do anything about it. Right through all of the utterances by Ministers and supporters of this Government is the one consistent line, that is, that Australian mineral uranium deposits should be exported. We can go back to the speech to the Australian Mining Industry Council, not of yesterday but of 12 months ago, when the Deputy Prime Minister came out with a jingoistic speech saying that Japan would come and get it if we did not export it, and relying upon those old phobias to try to sell the question of uranium exports. Not a week ago at the National Press Club the Deputy Prime Minister had this to say: 
Certainly, with uranium, the questions of waste disposal and nuclear safeguards must be adequately dealt with. 
But, as well, I think we need to ask questions about the economic implications for Australia of whatever decision is made about uranium mining and export. 
Is there going to be a nuclear power industry around the world regardless of whether Australia exports uranium? 
Is the Australian economy so strong that we can deny ourselves the clear economic benefits that would flow from the mining and export of uranium? Are the economies of local regions so well-based that these regions can turn their backs on the benefits that the mining of uranium or something else can bring? 
Is our balance of payments so secure that we can forgo the considerable boost which uranium exports would bring? 
He went on in that vein. The whole tenor of the discussion was that he supported the export of uranium. Turning to the reference last week in this House by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  he said: 
The Government regards it as imperative that peaceful nuclear energy development takes place and it seems inevitable that it will take place under an effective international regime. 
But where is the effective international regime? The Government has generally bypassed most of the considerations in this uranium debate. We just want to make a couple of points clear to the Government. We on this side of the House are determined- and I stress the word determined '-that there will be a national consensus before there is any export of uranium from this country. Honourable members opposite may say: How is the Opposition going to do that? Before 1972 we took the very old fashioned and traditional view that governments had rights and prerogatives which were the property of the elected government. We soon learned after 1972 that that kind of view no longer prevailed and within a year of our taking office this Government when in Opposition commenced its attacks on our Budgets. The Government defeated the second Labor Budget and threatened major legislation by defeat in the Senate. The Opposition is now claiming the same right. We are doing so on the precedent created by the Government by the breaking of the Fraser Island contracts. The Opposition does not feel obliged to honour any future contracts entered into by the Fraser Government. The consequence of that is that until there is satisfaction by the international banking community that cash flows will not be interrupted by the use of the Commonwealth's export power to interrupt payments to companies to service debts, money will not be advanced to small Australian uranium miners to establish plants of the order of $200m to $225m. 
Representatives of many American and international banking institutions have been here in the last 6 months. They all referred to clause 3 of the report and confirm what I believe, that is, that money will not be advanced unless that threat is taken away. That threat will not be taken away while the Government unilaterally persists with its policy of exports and the attitude that the rest of us can go to billy-o. The Opposition will not go to billy-o. It will do just what the Government did in opposition. We will force the Government to adopt a decent and responsible attitude on the uranium issue. Otherwise, the Opposition is determined that forever there will be no uranium exports from new mines. The face is that unless safeguards are provided and developed, and unless waste disposal problems are conquered, the Opposition will maintain the attitude that it has announced. The penny should drop. Dull as the Government supporters are, they will not get away with this and they must accommodate the views of the Opposition if this industry is to develop. 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to the survey published in the  Sydney Morning Herald  today in which 52 per cent of Australians said that they thought his Government did not know what to do to improve economic conditions and 75 per cent thought that this time next year they would be either no better or worse off economically? Will he now concede that there is virtually no public confidence in his Government's policies? Does he agree that he has kept at least one promise- namely, to become the most unpopular Prime Minister in recent history? 
My question which is directed to the Prime Minister is related to the answer which he just gave to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition and to his apparent unshakable faith in a wage-price freeze. Did the Prime Minister last September state that a pricewage freeze was unworkable in Australia? Specifically, did he tell the journal  Country Life  -I have the quotation with me- that no country in the world which had adopted fixed controls had found them to be successful as a means of reducing inflation? Is that secret view held by the Prime Minister the real reason why he is not game to present to the Parliament a full statement on his wage-price freeze? 
-One finds it curious that this motion should appear in the name of the Acting Minister for National Resources  (Mr Nixon)  when previously the Government had nominated the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  as the Minister responsible for the management of the uranium debate within the Parliament. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community 
Development had responsibility in terms of this debate because the Ranger Environmental Inquiry was established by a Minister for the Environment and the Commission was bound to report to the Minister for the Environment. So one can only now wonder why the Acting Minister for National Resources is now involved. The reason probably is simply that, now the Government has unofficially and quietly decided to support wholesale uranium mining and export, it feels the issue should be managed in the Parliament by one of its more senior Ministers, one of the more accomplished hatchet men of the coalition, in this case, the Acting Minister for National Resources. 
At this point I should read the Minister's motion. It states: 
That in the opinion of this House the question of further development of the Australian uranium industry, other than to meet export arrangements entered into before December 1972, and the safeguards to be applied to exports under any future contracts should be the subject of further public debate. 
The motion is somewhat ambiguous. I take it that it means that in the opinion of the House the question of further development of the Australian uranium industry and the safeguards to be applied to exports under future contracts should be the subject of further debate- that is, with the exclusion of 'other than to meet export arrangements entered into before 1972'. In other words, that the House debate the question of the further development of the uranium industry and the safeguards to be applied to any future exports. One can be excused for believing that the motion assumes that future contracts will be entered into and that what is left to be debated is the nature of the safeguards applying to exports under such contracts. 
At this point in time that proposition should not be assumed. For the Opposition's part what should be discussed is whether exports should be permitted and on what basis, if at all. The Opposition's policy on this matter has often been articulated in the House and is quite clear. Perhaps I should recount the policy to the House. It is: 
. That existing contracts for uranium mining should be honoured, provided that no new mining developments are permitted to take place. 
That the Labor Party should continually press for stricter international safeguards and controls over the handling of nuclear materials. 
That it be made clear that the next Labor Government will not be bound to honour any future contracts entered into by the present Government. 
That if, in Government, the Labor Party is satisfied that the hazards associated with nuclear power have been eliminated and satisfactory methods of waste disposal developed the question of uranium mining, be re-considered in the context of full public debate. 
I might say that the exclusion mentioned in the motion about export arrangements entered into before 1 972 accords with the present policy of the Opposition and we do not cavil at this. That is, provided it is understood that arrangements to meet these pre-December '72 contract commitments are supplied from ore mined at the Mary Kathleen Mine in Queensland and ore supplied from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission stockpile. If it is the intention of the Government that that part of the motion is to imply that export arrangements entered into before 1972 are to be met from new mining capacity operated by Ranger and Queensland Mines Ltd, the Opposition would be opposed to the effect of such an interpretation. The policy of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party is as clear as day. At this point in time it is opposed to the fabrication of any new uranium mining and milling capacity and any exports which may arise as a consequence of such a development. 
I draw the attention of the House to clauses 2 and 4 of the decision of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party that I have just mentioned. That is, the Labor Party will press for stricter international safeguards and controls over the handling of nuclear waste materials and if in government the Labor Party is satisfied that the hazards of the nuclear industry have been eliminated and satisfactory methods of waste disposal developed, the question of new uranium mining activity would then be reconsidered in the context of full public debate . 
In elaboration, the Labor Party believes that the safeguard regime which exists at the moment is next to useless and that the method of handling and disposing of nuclear waste material is unsatisfactory. It is on this basis that the Labor Party is opposed to development of new mining capacity to fuel the developing international nuclear industry. The danger, however, with the public debate on uranium in Australia is that to a very large degree a rigid polarisation is becoming apparent. If this trend continues Australia's possible role for the improvement in the nature of nuclear development may be jeopardised. 
On the one hand, uranium mining supporters want to export large quantities or uranium forthwith without first exacting new proliferation safeguard development from the international nuclear community and before any satisfactory resolution of the nuclear waste disposal problem takes place. On the other hand, some people in the anti-uranium camp are opposed to the mining of uranium in Australia in perpetuity. That is, to close their minds and leave uranium in the ground forever. Such polarisation will do little to resolve the problem which Australia faces by virtue of its large natural uranium endowments. It is important to refer to what I believe is the central thesis of the Fox Commission of Inquiry report on the question of uranium exports. I refer to page 1 79- 1 80 of the report which states: 
A total renunciation of intention to supply designed to bring an end to all nuclear power industries or all further development of them would in our view be likely to fail totally in its purpose. If the purpose were simply to draw international attention to the dangers of and associated with the industry, that purpose might be achieved, but it is most unlikely that any worthwhile action would result. On the other hand there are positive reasons against adopting such a course. 
The Commission also goes on to say at page 1 80 of the report: 
We are of the view that total renunciation of intention to supply is undesirable. 
Put another way, Australia, whilst without a nuclear power generation program itself can have an impact upon the development of the international nuclear community. This should be the central aim of Australian uranium policy. It is not in Australia's interest or the global environmental interest to promote actively the unlimited expansion of nuclear power in the climate of the present uncertainties. Nor is it proper for Australia to withold its reserves in perpetuity and wash its hands of the nuclear problem knowing that it could have been a force for good in the future development of this energy industry. 
The United States of America, Canada and Australia control over 80 per cent of the western world's marketable uranium. It is within the power of these 3 nations to reshape the course of nuclear power development. However, such an undertaking can only succeed if given time. It will never succeed if Australia falls over itself to supply uranium in the immediate future, conscious as it is that the nuclear community is in no position to deal with waste disposal adequately and has not yet had the time or the inclination to develop a sound system of safeguards against the proliferation of nuclear weapons from access to nuclear materials. This is why Australia must delay any decision to develop new uranium mines. Already some encouraging signs are visible on the international horizon. 

 President Carter twice within the last week has apprised the American people of the difficulties confronting the world in terms of energy availability. But the Administration has taken the important step of enunciating a nuclear policy which disposes of the options of nuclear fuel reprocessing development and fast breeder reactor development. This course is designed to defer indefinitely the commercial reprocessing and recycling of plutomium produced in the United States power reactor program in the belief that if plutomium extraction is curtailed, the propensity for terrorism activity and weapons proliferation will be reduced. What is interesting about  President  Carter's initiative is that it has taken place with the knowledge and support of the Canadian Government which recently halted all its uranium exports until a new regime of proliferation safeguards are developed to which the major uranium rich countries may subscribe. 
If Australians are serious in their belief that proliferation safeguard development and waste disposal must be improved, then the Government of the United States must be involved in such a policy. This is so because of the massive size of the United States domestic nuclear power program and also the United States nuclear hardware industry as well as the pervasive influence of United States nuclear technology within the West. It is through the influence which the United States exercises in the western world monetary system and its defence arrangements that the United States is the pivotal point for change in the direction which the international nuclear industry should take in the future. 
No group of nuclear power utilities or mining companies in the United States or Western Germany or Japan will be able to effect such changes in technology. This must be the conscious course of the governments of those states and therefore it is with those governments that Australia must exercise its influence. Japan, Western Germany and the United States have their backs to the wall on energy supply generally. President Carter yesterday articulated the plight in which the United States may find itself in the near future. The same is the case with other countries. 
The House will recall that recently a group of United States nuclear power utility representatives visited Australia to study the uranium position. They made some telling points about U.S. uranium self sufficiency. The group said that the total U.S. demand for uranium in the early 1980s would be 35 000 tons, whereas domestic production in that period will be only 25 000 tons. Last year U.S. uranium production was only 1 1 600 tons. Many U.S. power reactors have only two to five years of fuel supply. Less than half of the existing reactors have more than 6 reloads, that is, about 7 years supply. Less than half of the reactors under construction have more than 2 reloads and a large number have none whatsoever. This is indicative of the general uranium shortfall that exists. 
The United States, like most nations, primarily acts on its own selfish interest. The same is the case with Western Germany, Britain and Japan, and ourselves for that matter. These countries are now searching desperately for an assured uranium supply into the 1980s and 1990s. If these countries are to give up the option of fast breeder reactors and rely primarily on conventional thermal reactor programs then uranium supply will assume an even greater magnitude in their thinking. Australia can take great advantage of their discomfort by exacting concessions and commitments from them as to the future course of nuclear energy development. But the Australian Labor Party is determined that this opportunity will not be jeopardised or thrown away by any subserviance and compliance on the part of the Fraser Government in wanting to please these countries or to curry favour with our own domestic uranium producers. The Opposition is committed to a policy of opposition to new mining development and the witholding of new uranium exports until it is satisfied that the hazards associated with nuclear industry have been overcome and the important question of waste disposal satisfactorily resolved. 
If necessary- and I place emphasis on the words 'if necessary '-the Opposition will take the management of the Government's uranium policy into its own hands by stressing the prerogatives available to a future Labor Government to restrict any export arrangements that have been entered into by the present Liberal-Country Party Government. The effect of such a move would jeopardise cash flows and endanger the commercial viability of any such uranium mining project. This would be a decision that would not be taken lightly, nor is it a decision which has not been taken already. Clause 3 of the policy which I mentioned above states: 
The next Labor Government will not be bound to honour any future contracts entered into by the present Government'. 
This does not mean we will not honour any future contracts. However, Labor reserves the right to cancel such contract approval if it believes it is in the national interest to do so. This is not a capricious policy. It is a responsible attitude that makes it clear to the Australian uranium mining industry that any initiatives that the Fraser Government may take on uranium development do not necessarily lock a future Labor Government into such arrangements. 
I have personally stressed this plank of Opposition policy to Australian and overseas rnining and finance groups both in private and in public so that they may understand the clear intention of Labor policy. Any investment decision they may then take will be taken in full cognisance of this policy. I have indicated to these groups that uranium mining ventures of up to $250m in capital value could be at risk in the event that the conditions of clause 4 of the Labor policy are not met. The policy of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party is sound on this issue. It reflects the growing concern of the Australian community towards the nuclear industry and the heavy responsibilties that weigh upon Australia with its abundant uranium reserves. The Government must resist the pressures upon it for the premature development of these enormous deposits. It must, in the interest of all Australians, make the right decision. If it does, all mankind will be the beneficiaries. 
-The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  is saying that everyone is out of step but the Government. The leader of organised labour in Australia, the  President  of the Aus.tralian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  came to Canberra last week proposing a national conference on the issue of the freeze. The independent Conciliation and Arbitration Commission recommended that course in its judgment a week ago. Since then the Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  has suggested the same course. 
The Australian Council of Employers Federations which is led by  Mr Polites,  suggested the same thing. Everyone is out of step but the Government. The Government wants blind or slavish support for a wage freeze or nothing at all. 
So, what do we find? We now find that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will not even respond to the proposal. He will not sit down and talk to almost every interested party in this matter in the country because he just wants an unencumbered wage freeze, and that is it.  His  obstructionism is now destroying the whole initiative. Here is the man who got  Sir John  Kerr to toss out the Labor Government because of its economic performance, politically and economically destitute. This is the man who claimed that he had all the economic answers. In the first place we had an investment led recovery, then a consumer led recovery, and then the panic devaluation. Now we have the kick-the-unions recovery. Who is responsible for all this? It is none other than the ideas man, the Prime Ministerthe Leader of a bankrupt Government. Yet he had the hide not so long ago to talk about uncertainty under the Labor Government. What more uncertainty could there be than a complete absence of any coherent monetary of fiscal policy to deal with inflation and this attempt to coerce the trade union movement and working people in Australia into a premature and useless wage freeze which is not backed by some  quid pro quo  on prices. 
The interesting thing about this debate is that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  is absent. We are again confronted by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and, in this debate a back bench  speaker.  The prime economic manager in the Government, the Treasurer, has been silent right throughout the debate on this issue. Apart from learning the fact that the Secretary of the Treasury sold the idea to the State officials, we have not heard one contribution from the Treasurer or any of the Treasury officials. We realise that the majority of the officials are opposed to it. When we have asked the Government to table the documents showing the advice which the Treasury has tended to it, it refuses to do so because no-one in the Treasury believes this policy. The Treasury officials put the position quite bluntly. They say that the Government has now left the analyst and the technocrat and returned to the witch doctor. The Government wants blind and slavish support for a wage freeze. That is the only economic policy that the Government now has. The Government's economic policy is now concentrated on a cut in real wages. 
Where is the Treasurer while this debate is in progress? The Treasurer is slinking around in his office listening to the debate over the internal broadcast system instead of being in the chamber defending the policy which he espouses. The point, of course, is that he does not believe it; neither does the Treasury. The fact that the Prime Minister conned  Sir Frederic  Wheeler into selling it to the State officials is beside the point. The Prime Minister is now practically left on his own, without any of the State governments agreeing with him, without the employer or employee organisations agreeing with him. He has sent a junior Minister in the person of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, into this chamber to defend a policy which is now falling to pieces. 
Let us look at what the  President  of the ACTU put to the Prime Minister last week. He said: 'I am here to talk about a national conference, which was commended by the Arbitration Commission, because I know that inflation is the problem and I recognise that wages play a part in prices. I am prepared to talk about this'. But that was not good enough for the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister said that because  Mr Hawke  would not commit himself to the principle of a wage freeze he would talk no longer. He then was foolish enough to ask  Mr Hawke  for a personal commitment. What is a personal commitment from a person who leads the trade union movement? What is a personal commitment from a Minister? What is a personal commitment from a Prime Minister? What matters is the commitment of the Government and it is the commitment of the organisation and not a personal commitment that matters.  Mr Fraser  is prepared to go to any lengths to try to squeeze out of  Mr Hawke  a commitment to this wage freeze without explaining in any way how he would deal with prices. 
The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs said in the debate a few moments ago that no one mentioned tax cuts.  Mr Hawke  mentioned tax cuts last week, and so did the Victorian Premier. 
That is not true. 
I will read the transcript of what  Mr Hamer  said on the radio program  A.M. : 
WARWICK ADDERLEY: Well,  Mr Hamer,  is it correct that you made no mention of tax cuts at the Premiers Conference? 

 Mr HAMER: It's not correct in this sense that it was always pan of the proposal which we were putting as others were aware. 
WARWICK ADDERLEY-But why didn't it appear in the draft that you agreed to? 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  The statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is an obvious political ploy, drawn up at the last moment, to provide him with something to take to the United States and Canada on his forthcoming trip. The House needs to ask the Government why the Prime Minister has brought into the Parliament today a statement about nuclear safeguards when in fact the second Fox report will be presented publicly tomorrow and before the Parliament has a chance to comprehend what is in that report. The Prime Minister's statement is so close to the thinking of the Carter Administration that one must remain cynical as to his motives for introducing it. 
I should like to refer to 2 parts of the Prime Minister's speech. At page 4 he said that the Government has taken certain decisions on safeguard policy at this stage and that this: . . . reflects its determination to make sure that an established framework of policy exists so that any new uranium exports take place under the most carefully considered and responsible conditions possible. 
It was only 5 months ago that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  said in a statement that the Government welcomes any international initiatives for strengthening the international non-proliferation regime, implying that the Government itself was not going to devote its attention to the development of safeguards. Now the Prime Minister is contending that the Government has been considering safeguards from the moment of the Government's inception and that this policy is the result of thoughtfulness on the part of the Government. Obviously the development of a sophisticated safeguard regime on nuclear materials would take a number of years to develop because it is the international development of this regime which is important. We have witnessed the time it has taken to develop the strategic arms limitation agreements. The same kind of time and effort and painstaking performance would need to go into the development of a regime such as this. In the last paragraph of the Prime Minister's speech he said: 
As a result the Government is satisfied that the policy it has decided upon represents a practical, reasonable and effective package of safeguards measures to seek from countries wishing to import uranium from Australia under any future contracts. 
The point is that the Government now regards this statement as a complete policy on safeguards to usher in a policy of uranium exports. The basic implication behind the statement is that Australia will export its uranium, and pretty soon. The Opposition has always believed that the Liberals would export uranium irrespective of what the Opposition or the public might wish. It became obvious that the Fraser Government intends to export following a trip by the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  to the United States recently. At that time the  Deputy  Prime Minister softened up the Carter Administration and made it perfectly clear that Australia would do all that it could to export its uranium. In the 1960s Australia had an 'All the Way With LBJ* policy on the question of Vietnam- a policy formulated by the then Liberal Government in Australia. It is now obvious that the Liberal and National Country Parties want, as some wag put it, a 'Cart it to Carter' policy on the question of uranium. 
I take just one specific component of the Government's safeguard policy to illustrate how poorly thought out these safeguards are, apart from the implied reliance upon the International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards, which the Fox Commission said were next to useless and which the Opposition has referred to constantly in this House. The specific component that I want to deal with in the short time available is No. 4 of the Prime Minister's address which deals with bilateral agreements between the Australian Government and countries wishing to import Australian uranium. The Prime Minister says that the Government will insist upon agreements with such countries containing clauses ensuring that nuclear materials supplied by Australia for peaceful purposes or nuclear material derived from it will not be diverted to military or explosive purposes and, further, that International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards will apply to verify compliance with this undertaking. Such a statement by the Government makes a mockery of international relationships as they exist today. 
If the Government wants an example of the failure of such bilateral agreements on uranium, the case of Canadian uranium and nuclear technology being sold to India is a good example. The bilateral agreement in that case did not stop the Indians from developing an effective nuclear device. The Government's proposals, while indicating some good intentions, are absolutely naive of the international political realities existing in the world today and fall far short of the kind of provisions called for the Fox Commission. The Parliamentary Labor Party has made it quite clear where it stands on the question of uranium exports. Just so that the Prime Minister and the Carter Administration are under no illusions I shall repeat our policy once again. The existing policy of the Parliamentary Labor Party is: 
That existing contracts for uranium mining should be honoured, provided that no new mining developments are permitted to take place. 
That the Labor Party should continually press for stricter international safeguards and controls over the handling of nuclear materials. 
That it be made clear that the next Labor Government will not be bound to honour any future contracts entered into by the present Government. 
That if, in Government, the Labor Party is satisfied that the hazards associated with nuclear power have been eliminated and satisfactory methods of waste disposal developed the question of uranium mining be reconsidered in the context of full public debate. 
I shall dwell upon clause 3 of that policy where it states that the next Labor Government will not be bound to honour any future contracts entered into by the present Government. This is not saying that we will not honour any future contracts. However, Labor reserves the right to cancel such contract approval if it believes it is in the national interest to do so. This is not a capricious policy; it is a responsible attitude that makes it clear to the Australian uranium mining industry that any initiatives that the Fraser Government may take on uranium development do not necessarily lock a future Labor Government into such arrangements. I have stressed these provisions to international finance groups and to the mining industry and, I hope, to the Carter Administration so that they understand that the Government cannot lock a future Labor Government into a premature uranium development policy. This statement by the Prime Minister is too early as the Government is well aware and it is far too glib. If the Government thinks it is going to get away with this kind of policy by introducing it today, bringing the Fox report in tomorrow and making a decision next week, it will fail totally in its purpose. Perhaps the Government's uranium policy will join the long list of the Prime Minister's recent failures- the wage-price freeze blowout, the airline strike provocation, the Industrial Relations Bureau backtrack, the first referendum failure and now a broken down uranium policy to follow. 
If the Government is kidding the industry along that it can make this policy stick it is wrong. The Government realises that the plants cannot be financed unless there is a consensus in policy between the two major parties in Australia because no matter what the Government says the international banking consortiums will not advance development moneys until they are sure a future Labor Government will not interrupt cash flows to service those debts. As well as that, the plants will not be fabricated by the Australian trade union movement until the Government is able genuinely to come to a consensus about uranium policy. So much for the glib statement of the Prime Minister and his attempt to offer the Carter Administration something which is plausible. I put on notice here for the American Administration that we regard American policy in the nuclear field as paramount to changes in relation to safeguards and waste disposal. But the development of policy will take time, and it will not happen overnight and it will not happen for the convenience of the Prime Minister in trying to shore up what he sees as an opportunity with the American  President. 
In conclusion, just to put it on the record, the statement is political. It comes before the second Fox Report, it is far too early, and it is far too glib. Whilst the Opposition does not disparage all the provisions of it, it does not support the spirit of it which is the beginning of a premature uranium policy for Australia.  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later time. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Has the Minister for National Resources seen reports in the  Sydney Morning Herald  suggesting that the steel mills of Japan will be successful in holding down coal prices, denying Australian companies the. benefits of devaluation and normal price increases? Is the Minister aware that the tactic of the mills is to penalise the major Australian negotiating companies by threatening those companies with a reduction in tonnage if they do not accept lower prices? Does he realise that the effect of this could be a loss of up to $2 a tonne over 35 million tonnes, which would mean a loss of $70m in a full year? Will the Minister give a firm statement to the House, and thus to the steel mills, that the government will invoke the export control powers to ensure that there will be a uniform uplift in contract levels for coal taken by Japan so that we do not have the present situation where 
Queensland is getting an uplift of 85 to 90 per cent and South Coast coal producers are getting uplifts of only 70 to 75 per cent? I ask the Minister whether it is his view that this uniformity in contract tonnage will leave the Australian companies then clear to negotiate a firm price. Will this not overcome the major problems for the industry? 
-The Australian Labor Party supports this legislation. Briefly, this Bill is only a minor one. The moneys involved- $3m-may seem at first insignificant in the context of the total Budget outlay, but they mean a great deal to a significant number of people in the 3 States involved. The purpose of the Bill is to provide for the raising of $3m for war service land settlement in the States of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. The Government expects the borrowing authority provided by the existing Loan (War Service Land Settlement) Act to be exhausted by June of this year and therefore is seeking to raise $3m, as provided for in this legislation. 
The bulk of the money it is seeking authority to raise is required to make advances to settlers to provide adequate working capital to cover current working expenses, the purchase of stock and capital funds for the replacement of plant. Under the war service land settlement scheme settlers were not required to provide their own capital resources and consequently their ability to withstand the effects of adverse resource conditions or market pressures is greatly reduced. They do not have the capital reserves to dip into. These farmers may well be viable but suffering from certain problems caused by factors beyond their control. The $3m involved in this Bill will go a long way towards alleviating these temporary problems and maintaining the viability of the farming enterprise. It is for that reason that the Opposition has much pleasure in supporting the legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Administrator recommending appropriation announced. 
-The House is debating a series of Bills dealing with the collection of a special levy to assist in financing the operations of the fixed floor price scheme and the 3 per cent levy representing wool growers' contributions towards financing wool research and promotion. Before dealing with the Bills in particular, I must observe that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has again presented a host of important agricultural policy Bills to the Parliament during the last sitting days of a hectic parliamentary session. No doubt, one of the reasons for the delay is the Minister's increasing disregard for primary industries and his failure to devote adequate attention to his ministerial responsibilities. When in opposition the present Minister chose to denigrate the work done by the Australian Labor Pary for rural producers. Never during our administration did the Australian Labor Party Minister for Agriculture attract such criticism as the present Minister. 
It is pertinent to quote some of the more outstanding headlines which have appeared in rural newspapers around the country over the last 4 to 5 months. In the  Farmers Weekly  of 1 7 February 1977, the Farmers Union of Western Australia told the Minister to 'honour rural promises'.  The Land  of 24 February this year reported the general manager of the Australian Wool Corporation,  Mr Malcolm  Vawser, when presiding at a meeting of producers in the country, of accusing the Minister and his Government of frustrating delay in introducing the 1973 wool marketing recommendations. This follows remarks made at the national Agricultural Outlook Conference in February of this year by  Mr A.  C. B. Maiden, the  chairman  of the Australian Wool Corporation and previously secretary of the Department of Primary Industry. He was forced into the position of openly castigating the Minister for his failure to give any firm indications as to how the Government would act in relation to the 1973 wool marketing recommendations. It is an extraordinary state of affairs that a man of  Mr Maiden's  standing and calibre should be drawn to the point of attacking his own Minister. 
The  president  of the United Farmers and Wool Growers Association,  Mr Milton  Taylor, said that the wool industry 'has been frustrated to say the least at the indecision and lack of action taken by  Mr Sinclair'.  The Land  newspaper, many of whose directors are National Country Party members of the Parliament or active members of the National Country Party, took the rare action of writing an editorial warning the Minister he should not fail to notice the increasing amount of criticism about his administration of the Primary Industry portfolio. On 10 April this year, the wool section of the Farmers Union of West Australia unanimously carried a resolution of no confidence in the Minister. In addition the Farmers Union of West Australia gave  Mr Sinclair  an opportunity to reply to the accusations but he declined to do so. All these organisations have members who have been strong traditional supporters of the National Country Party. It now appears that they understand the National Country Party no longer protects and nurtures the interests of the people in agricultural industries. It uses its position to give the impression that it is helping them but kicks them in the tail when it feels like it. 
Even more importantly, producers within  Mr Sinclair's  electorate have been critical of the lack of action. The Inverell branch of the Graziers Association of New South Wales whose  chairman,  other members and firm supporters are in the National Country Party, has expressed its strong reservation about the Minister's capacity to deal adequately and promptly with urgent rural policy matters. Important rural organisations such as the Graziers Association of New South Wales are becoming disenchanted with the Minister's approach to rural industry problems, his capacity for delay and his tendency to leave a wake of dissension amongst primary producers. In addition, the Minister has given the impression that it was the Liberal-National Country Party Government which made major break-throughs in assisting primary industry in the context of these Bills which deal with the wool industry. Of course, this is arrant nonsense. Some of the most significant measures were introduced by the Australian Labor Party, when in government, after years of opposition and procrastination by LiberalCountry Party governments. It was the Australian Labor Party which introduced a fixed floor price scheme which gave so much confidence to the wool industry and the commercial leaders within it and formed the basis for establishing stable price levels for one of our major primary produce exports. In its first years of operation the Labor Government's commitment to this scheme involved up to $400m and had the market fallen it could have required as much as $600m. This sum significantly exceeds the value of any single item of assistance which the National Country Party has ever given to Australian rural industries. 
During the early 1970s the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council, the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation and the Australian Wool Industry Conference all requested the then Liberal-Country Party Government to agree to a fixed floor price scheme. The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony)  and the present Minister for Primary Industry constantly refused to take any action. The alleged supporters of the wool industry interests were seen to do no more than introduce a flexible reserve price scheme which was far removed from the requests and requirements of the wool growing industry. In addition, the Labor Party agreed to strengthen the powers of the Australian Wool Corporation, which strengthening went a long way to improving its effective operation in the market. Again on this occasion it is the Australian Labor Party which will be pressing for clarification and strengthening of the Corporation's powers, and it is for this reason that the Opposition in the Senate, where we do not have the constraints of the Standing Orders which we have here, will propose amendments to the Wool Industry Amendment Bill. 
Going back over the debates on the wool industry, it was the present Minister for Primary Industry who expressed strong reservations about the Labor Government's proposals. On 28 November 1 974 he said, when speaking on the Wool Industry Bill (No. 2): 
We suspect this piece of legislation. We believe that there are elements within the changes which this legislation will implement which are very desirable. However, there are other elements which we see rather as the product of an attempt by this Government for political purposes to change the character of those who have been operating very effectively and very admirably as the present members of the Australian Wool Corporation. 
It is clear that the Minister still retains his reservations about the Australian Wool Corporation and thus he will continue to procrastinate about strengthening the Corporation's powers. The Opposition seeks to determine how genuine the Minister and his supporters were about improving the Corporation's trading and general negotiating position. Of course, the vehicle by which to do this has never been provided by the Government. 
All Bills which the Minister has introduced in this debate represent legislation which was initiated substantially by the former Labor Government. But, even insofar as he has gone, the Minister has failed to fulfil his promises and obligations to rural industries. Earlier in the year he made great play of the fact that he proposed to give the Australian Wool Corporation the power to operate a scheme for limited offer of direct purchase of wool and to improve more specifically the Corporation's functions and powers on freight rates for Australian wool carried overseas. One would have expected that in the course of amending the Wool Industry Act amendments to rectify both of these positions and to improve the Corporation's overall strength within the market would also have been introduced. But, of course, we find that they are not. It appears that the Minister has been too lax in getting around to introducing them. 
The statements which he made to the wool industry groups led the wool industry to believe that he proposed to introduce amendments to the Wool Industry Act which he now indicates will not be introduced until the Budget session. The Government's failure to introduce these amendments must cast legal doubts on the Australian Wool Corporation's ability to operate a limited offer to purchase scheme without legal challenge. The position is that at least one of the major wool trading groups has a legal opinion which could form the basis of a challenge to the limited offer to purchase scheme. Although the Australian Wool Corporation is a member of the Wool Committee group which recently has been to London in an attempt to negotiate the rates of freight with the Australia to Europe Shipping Conference, the Minister's statement that the legislation giving the Corporation power will not be introduced until the Budget session must create doubts also about the Corporation's legal ability to negotiate at present. 
The absence of other amendments to the Wool Industry Act also must create doubts in the minds of growers as to how active the Corporation will be in operating this limited offer to purchase scheme. The proscrastination about introducing these 2 important amendments must give rise to the view that the Minister is pandering to the vested interests in the wool industry which are opposed to change and resent the Corporation having increased power. I must recall the comment which the Minister made on 28 November 1974 when speaking to the Wool Industry Bill. He said: 
The wool buyers have said to me that the trading powers strike at the heart of the market forces present balance and if they are used to influence existing established markets, particularly in terms of export of processed wools, they could quite seriously prejudice the operations of those in the private sector. 
I must observe that the National Council of Wool Selling Brokers, in conjunction with the Australian Council of Wool Buyers, is canvassing a proposal for the introduction of a wool exchange which would leave the wool selling brokers and wool buyers in an extemely strong position; in fact, a position which would be contrary to the spirit and the letter of the Trade Practices Act. The  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Industry Conference.  Dr Don  von Bibra, again acting without authority, apparently has committed the Australian Wool Industry Conference policy committee to a degree of support for the wool exchange proposal that one major organisation, the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation, would not have a bar of. I sense, as with the meat issue, that the Minister is using the divisions of opinion within the industry to delay taking any substantial action which would improve the position of the Corporation and, hopefully, the returns to the wool growers. 
I am not alone in expressing these views. I find that the Graziers Association of New South Wales, which in the past through its special purposes fund has financially supported the National Country Party, is once more at loggerheads with the Minister and, importantly, the Minister for Overseas Trade. In his letter to rural producers published in  The Land  on 3 1 March,  Mr F.  M. Davidson, the  President  of the Association, said: 
The Association 's annual conference has reaffimed its support for the objectives of the Australian Wool Corporation's 1973 wool marketing recommendations and agreed to actively pursue their earliest possible implementation. 
The Association was supported in that approach by the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation, but once more there is prevarication. Although the Minister states that he supports the objectives of the 1973 Australian Wool Corporation's marketing proposals, he has refused to say just how far he is prepared to go and at what pace. What a remarkable lack of clarity. What a failure to indicate whether the limited offer to purchase scheme constitutes a single isolated experiment or a stage in working towards the implementation of the 1973 wool marketing recommendations. This is all the more extraordinary because the then shadow Minister, in the debate on the Wool Industry Bill in 1974, said: 
The first thing I should say with respect to the Bill is that I hope that in his reply to the second reading debate the Minister .. . explains whether this piece of legislation is to be the response to the Australian Wool Corporation's marketing plan or whether we can expect yet another piece of legislation that may in further detail embrace the prescription that was laid down to the Australian Wool Corporation in that marketing plan. If the Bill is to be an answer to that plan, I am disappointed that there has not been an express statement to that effect. 
That was in 1974. That gentleman is now the Minister, and it is now 1977. It appears, therefore, that now, years later, the Minister and the Government are still unable to make up their minds; but then, on the basis of past performance this is par for the course. 
The Minister has in his possession an interdepartmental report on the subject, and its recommendations, which was prepared at the request of the Labor Government, and subsequently has obtained from the Corporation a detailed assessment of how the marketing proposals would have worked had they been introduced for the 1973-74 and 1974-75 wool selling seasons. However, much to the consternation of the entire wool industry, the Minister will make no firm commitment one way or the other. This means that sections of the industry are deferring making investments or are turning to the purchase of wool from other countries. The Government and the Minister are now up to their old antics of creating the impression that they are doing something when, in fact, they are doing nothing and have no intention of doing anything. 
The Opposition does not oppose these Bills but we believe that the powers of the Corporation should be extended. The Bill has a limited title. The Opposition was able to move amendments in the House because of that fact, but I have indicated that amendments of this nature will be moved in the Senate. We support the continuation of the 5 per cent levy to provide a reserve for any loss which might arise from the operation of the fixed floor price. However, the Opposition is not clear as to whether the funds in the market support fund which at present must be placed in low interest rate securities can be altered to allow the grower to get a higher return, thus making a greater contribution towards offsetting the effects of borrowing at a relatively high rate of interest from the Australian Government. There are also a number of areas in relation to research and promotion on which the Australian Government has not been clear. There has been an Industries Assistance Commission report on Australian Government funding of rural research and promotion. There is considerable hope within the producer organisations that the level of both activities will be increased, the costs-of running the International Wool Secretariat have increased as have the costs of local promotion in recent years. It will be necessary to examine in the future the commitments to these activities. 
The Opposition hopes that during the winter recess the Minister will find sufficient time to attend to the drafting of amendments to the Wool Industry Act to increase the Corporation's powers. I have a suspicion that if the present Government remains in power it will be May next year before the second and necessary series of amendments to the Wool Industry Act is introduced. In conclusion, the Opposition resents the fact that in the last week of a long parliamentary sitting it is presented with up to 12 pieces of rural legislation. We will give them speedy passage but major legislation of immense complexity such as the amendments to the Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation and the first stage of the dairy plan has been foisted on the Parliament and the Opposition at short notice. Speeches and amendments to this comprehensive legislation have to be made in a short space of time. The Opposition will rise to the occasion but we resent not only the way in which we have been treated, but also the way in which the Australian rural industry has been treated by the Government in introducing this legislation in such a scant way in the dying days of a parliamentary session. 
-The producer organisations have expressed substantial reservations about the salaries of the  chairman  and general manager of the Board. This clause applies to a member of the Corporation or a  deputy  of a member and provides that salaries will be determined by the Remuneration Tribunal. The Opposition seeks clarification. Does this mean that the salaries of the  Chairman  and Corporation members may exceed those set by the Public Service Board? If so, will the Minister make any submissions to the Remuneration Tribunal about the level of salaries? Will the Remuneration Tribunal give any guidance in respect of management salaries? Under clause 31 sub-clause (2) it appears that the employees' terms and conditions of service and employment will be subject to ministerial approval. 
-A number of provisions of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation Bill are very unclear and require clarification. Rather than move an amendment to each clause the Opposition prefers to seek clarification from the Minister for Primary Industry. Of course he will understand that if he is unprepared to give assurances we will be obliged to move amendments now and probably to move further amendments when the Bill is debated in the Senate. So I should like to pose to the Minister a number of questions concerning clause 7 (d), to which I ask the Minister to respond. 
Has the Minister had discussions with the Australian Meat Board about the introduction of a meat classification scheme? Secondly, has the Minister reached any agreement with the Board about a date for the introduction of a meat classification scheme? If so, will he regard those discussions as being discussions held with the new Corporation? Lastly, if the Government does not agree to the amendment circulated by the Opposition, will he give an assurance to the Parliament that he will act immediately on any recommendation from the new Corporation board about the introduction of a meat classification scheme? 
-Briefly, the Opposition supports the right of the Minister to make the final decision about the appointment of producer representatives to the Board. A precedent for this was established by the Labor Government. Can the Minister clarify what he would do in the event of his facing the same situation as we did with the Australian Meat Board selection committee having the power to refuse to put up additional names? Does the wording of clause 19 (2) adequately deal with this? 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1), Omit proposed paragraph (b), substitute the following paragraph: 
sell within Australia or export, or sell for sale within Australia or for export, meat or live-stock owned by the Corporation. 
The Opposition moves this amendment to give the Corporation the power to sell within Australia. The amendment also will empower the Corporation to sell meat in conjunction with any promotion program, such when as the Australian Meat Board attempted to promote the sale of sweetmeats. We believe that the addition of this paragraph would enhance the powers of the Corporation and more suitably equip it for the role which the Opposition envisages for it. 
I would like to ask the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  a question. As indicated in my speech, there is considerable interest in the appointment of the new  chairman  of the Board of the Corporation. Whilst I recognise that it is a delicate matter, can the Minister provide the Parliament with an assurance that the present  chairman  of the Australian Meat Board will not be appointed by the Minister as the new  chairman  of the Corporation? 
-The Government's proposal to increase the superphosphate bounty is not opposed by the Opposition. However, we want the section of primary industry which uses superphosphate to be absolutely clear that the action being taken by the Government is a cunning, mischievous way of disguising future price increases. The Government will increase the phosphate bounty from the current rate of $1 1.81 a tonne by 19 cents to $12 a tonne. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  claims that the action is in accordance with the recommendations contained in the Industries Assistance Commission report. This is not correct. Either the Minister has difficulty reading IAC reports or is deliberately attempting to mislead primary producers. The Government did not follow the IAC report strictly. The IAC recommended a 20 per cent  ad valorem  rate on superphosphate and on phosphate rock prepared for use as fertiliser, or $138 a tonne for phosphorous content either greater or less than the phosphorous content of single superphosphate on the available phosphorous content. 
If the Government adhered to the IAC recommendations it would mean that the amount of bounty would increase with any increase in the ex-works price for bulk material or of the importer's selling price at the port of entry. However, the Government is really announcing the intention to decrease the rate of bounty over the next 5 years. There is no doubt that the price of superphosphate will continue to rise. In fact, we believe that one of the reasons why the matter is being rushed through at the end of this current session of Parliament is that a price rise is imminent. The Government must think primary producers are fools not to have seen the Government's intention to reduce the effective rate of assistance to this section of the industry. The recent decision in the Ocean Island case and the commitment by the partners in the British Phosphate Commission to pay the Banabans $10m, combined with increasing costs of removing Christmas Island phosphate rock, means that price increases for phosphate rock must soon beassed on. Once the price increases, the rate ofounty will no longer be the 20 per cent  ad valorem  rate recommended in the Industries Assistance Commission report but something less than that and ever decreasing. 
As with so much of the current legislation, it is not clear if the review within the 5-year period would include a review of the rate and total amount payable to the industry. In fact, the Opposition understands that the review would only be to consider if the bounty should be maintained beyond 1982. The Government should have been honest to primary users who use superphosphate and warned them that price rises are imminent and that the Government did not propose to adhere strictly to the IAC recommendations. While the Opposition does not oppose this Bill, it must observe that the report of the IAC was not a majority one. One of the commissioners recommended that the bounty be phased out over 2 years. The Opposition understands the reasoning behind his dissenting recommendation. 
The Opposition is concerned that the benefit of the superphosphate bounty is not spread equally throughout rural industry. There are large sections of the cattle industry in Queensland and wide areas of the black soil plains wheat growing areas which do not need superphosphate. In addition, wool and cattle producers in the pastoral zone are unable to usefully spread superphosphate on their vast grazing areas. It seems inequitable that a section of primary industry receives $50m a year while others receive absolutely nothing. There is also some concern that the bounty is not enjoyed by those who most need it. There is strong evidence to suggest it is the wealthier section of the industry which receives the greatest advantage. At a time when many primary producers are in a desperate state there are some grounds for arguing that the $50m could be more equitably distributed to assist those people in real trouble. However, it appears that the Government is cutting back this sort of assistance, and the recent announcement by the Minister for Primary Industry that funds for loans to beef producers will be cut back during the next financial year is some indication of that. Thus the apparent munificence of the Government in increasing the superphosphate bounty is little better than a callous sham and is increasing evidence of the Government reducing its support for rural industry in real terms while granting a disproportionately larger increase to manufacturing industry at the same time. 
-The Opposition does not oppose these Bills but welcomes them as evidence of the first tentative signs of this conservative Government finally acting to lead the ailing Australian dairy industry down the road to rationalisation and reorganisation. The Bills simply act to implement Stage I of the Industries Assistance Commission's recommendations on marketing arrangements as included in the report delivered to the Government in early September 1976. These Bills do not embrace Stage II which relates to a nationally negotiable market entitlement scheme, nor Stage III which relates to opening up the entire industry to the impact of export prices. The Bills give effect to the agreement reached by the Australian Agricultural Council at its one hundredth meeting in early February of this year. It was agreed at this meeting that provision for a compulsory levy disbursement system should be made. In other words, the voluntary equalisation arrangement is being replaced by a compulsory one. It is encouraging to learn that such agreement was reached regarding Stage II at the Australian Agricultural Council meeting. 
The Opposition acknowledges the difficulty faced by any federal government in trying to bring equitable reforms to the dairy industry. State interests are of vital concern in this matter and a compromise has to be reached with each State unless the Commonwealth is prepared to lead. However, comment needs to be made on the tardiness and lack-lustre performance of the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  with respect to the dairy industry which has just gone through its two worst years, particularly in Victoria. The Opposition's criticism is not that nothing is being done but that so little is being done for so many in such a slow time. 
The Government is not and has not been short of information on the dairy industry on which to base policy if it wanted to act. But the Minister invited paralysis by analysis in asking for a further report on the dairying industry from the IAC immediately after having the report of the IAC which was delivered in October 1975 to the Labor Government shortly before the Senate was perverted by the Liberal and Country Parties in November of that year. The Minister, in his speech on the second reading of the Dairy Stabilisation Bill 1977 said: 
As the dairy industry was, however, unable to come forward with an agreed plan the Government referred the matter back to the IAC and requested that it report specifically on what long-term marketing arrangements should be introduced for the industry. 
It is a hopeless reason to state that the industry was not able to agree. For a start, there are at least 3 industries involved in dairying and a superstructure of administrative and institutional arrangements that means consensus is impossible. For those who talk so much about 'leadership, ' why would the Government not propose a scheme in the light of all the knowledge it has. It is not for the IAC to make Government policy. That is the function of the Government via the Minister and his Department. It is the IAC's primary function to make recommendations to the Government on measures of industry assistance, not on industry arrangements. What if the arrangements as recommended had not been satisfactory or not agreed upon? Would another inquiry have been called for? What makes the Minister think that all the recommendations will be accepted by the industry? Even he hints- he has done so recently- that they will not be. So much for the abdication of responsibility that has marked the Minister's administration of his portfolio! 
The Minister knows full well that there was no need for a second inquiry. The findings of the Victorian inquiry of May 1975 provided abundant information on the deficiencies of equalisation. The discussions centring on the Australian Dairy Corporation plan indicated the parameters on which any scheme could and should centre. In the hour of the dairy industry's greatest need the Government called for another inquiry as a stall. Prevarication and procastination have marked the Government's approach to primary industry matters since its election. It took an estimated 20 000 Victorian dairy farmers and their families who took to the streets in June last year for the Government to make decent gestures towards the level of underwriting for the 1976-77 season. Addressing the United Dairy Farmers of Victoria in October 1976, the Minister said that the Government would not abandon dairying and that decisions of great courage were needed. It has taken another  Vh  months from that meeting for us to arrive at this first step towards industry marketing reform. Stage I is the easy stage of the IAC recommendations. This is supposed to be called courage! 
Of course we all know of the Minister's tardiness with respect to marketing reform in both the meat and wool industries.  His  inaction provoked the New South Wales United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association to call for his resignation in February this year. And of course, dissatisfaction with the Minister's hamfisted approach has continued until the present with calls for changes to the Meat and Livestock Corporation still being called for by way of full page advertisements in some newspapers. It is not just the Minister who should take the blame for inaction on rural matters. In speech after speech to rural audiences over many years, Liberal and Country Party speakers have scorned the lack of farmers in the Labor Party. The barbs that once were aimed at Ken Wriedt are now aimed at me. The Minister still cannot resist denigrating Ken Wriedt because he was not a farmer. One only has to read the Minister's Press release on his address to the Victorian Country Party Annual Conference at Horsham to realise the repetitious and sterile line of argument that is used on rural audiences. 
So let us see what a farmer's government has done for the dairy farmer. Of the 4 most senior people in the Cabinet, three are farmers. Of the 12 Cabinet members, six are farmers. Of the 25 Ministers in the Ministry, nine are farmers. It has taken this farmer's Government 17 months to introduce a first step on the road to dairy marketing reform the rule of which is to change a voluntary arrangement into a compulsory one. Big deal! No wonder beef farmers are predicting that the Government could lose 13 seats in rural areas at the next election. The slogan 'Only Butter Butters' is now being joined by 'Only Sinclair Dithers'. What has been happening to this great industry while the Government has been dithering? It has been going backwards, and well the Government knows it. 
Taking Australian Bureau of Statistics data for the period 31 March 1971 to 31 March 1975 the number of dairy holdings declined by over 26 per cent with the number of properties dropping from 54 841 to 40 490. If herds under 30 cows were excluded from these figures on the grounds that most farmers in this category are not specialist dairy farmers, then the decline is still in excess of 23 per cent. These figures do not necessarily represent a fall in production of the percentage stated as the tendency is for average herd size to increase and cow numbers have dropped by only some 9 per cent for the same period. But since this period and particularly for the period that this Government has been in office, and taking into account the drought in Victoria in 1976, and State trends in the decline in farm numbers, it is probable that today the number of holdings is now down to 33 000. That would be a drop of nearly 40 per cent in 7 years. With figures like these it is no wonder that many dairy farmers, or should I say ex-dairy farmers, regard the Government's inaction with cynicism. 
All Governments in Australia and all in the industry have known or should have known of the long term prospects for the industry. Although the facts have not prevented State governments and politicians from encouraging more production for parochial reasons, the trend has been plain and apprehendable for those that would read, listen and see. Britain's entry into the Common Market, France's continuing intransigence with respect to domestic subsidisation, the European Economic Community's overall policies, the problems faced by New Zealand and the volatility of prices on the world market, given small changes in the volume traded, have all been known for a long while. On the domestic scene although the fluid market is strong,  per capita  consumption is declining. The impact of margarine as a competitor for butter is causing severe problems for the manufacturing milk sector and the processing industry, being over capitalised and under specialised, is engaged in a process of rationalisation. Measures of assistance for rationalisation and readjustment have helped some people out of the industry. But for many the economists' euphemism of adjustment' has meant getting out without any compensation. The reason and the blame for this sorry state of affairs must be laid at the doors of previous Liberal-Country Party governments through the 1960s which encouraged the dairy industry and led it to believe in a fool 's paradise without pointing to the inevitable. If there are any dairy farmers who do not believe the industry is in the process of adjusting to a level of production at or near local consumption then I believe they should read the statements of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and of  Mr Tony  Webster of the Australian Dairy Corporation at this year's Outlook Conference. 
The Dairy Industry Assistance Levy Bill relates to the powers to impose a levy on market milk, which will raise concern in many quarters, particularly in New South Wales, but it is to be hoped that the need for such a levy will not be prompted and that available fluid markets will continue to be shared more equitably in the 
States. The Dairy Produce Amendment Bill 1 977 which is also being considered in this cognate debate is to be welcomed because it sensibly sets up an advisory committee to phase out the equalisation committees without conflict and to centralise marketing and administrative power in the Australian Dairy Corporation. In the Minister's second reading speech on the Dairy Industry Assistance Bill reference was made to the blanket provisions on access to properties, power to call for books and returns and to set up virtually an inspectorate and a disbursement scheme on the lines of Commonwealth Egg Marketing Authority legislation in the poultry industry. It is to be hoped that the mechanisms of inspection and enforcement of the Act do not lead to the conflict and excessive bureaucracy that is causing concern in the egg industry where the cost of orderly marketing seems to be out of all proportion. 
Finally, it seems that the Australian Agricultural Council in February this year largely agreed to Stage II of the IAC recommendations; this stage to commence possibly on 1 January 1978. Although some States are baulking at Stage II, it is essential for the Minister to initiate more discussions on national entitlement measures. That date, 1 January 1978, is very close and any decision on Stage II not well appreciated by the farmers themselves is going to cause governments much difficulty in the implementation phase. The tardiness that has marked the Government's approach to this industry to date must not be allowed to continue. The Opposition does not oppose the legislation. 
-The purpose of this Bill and the associated levy Bills is to establish the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation and set up the basis for financing the operations of the proposed new Corporation and associated activities in the meat industry. The handling of this issue by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  will ensure that he goes down in Australia's agricultural history because the bungling of the entire Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation proposal is a monument to 12 months of procrastination, indecision and, at times, bitter attack by primary producers on the Minister and the Government. 
National Country Party members, particularly those in Queensland, must be increasingly concerned about the criticism which traditional National Country Party supporters are levelling against the Minister and the Government. 
The ever-growing and publicised criticism by the Australian Cattlemen's Union in Queensland indicates that large numbers of National Country Party supporters are far from happy with the approach adopted by the Minister and the attitude of some of their traditional organisations. 
If we go back over the records, it is easy to see why the criticism has been made. On 8 September the Minister published a letter which he had written to various industry leaders about his proposals for the re-organisation of the Australian Meat Board into the Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation. In that letter, he said: 
During the past six months, I have indicated publicly on numerous occasions, that the present powers and functions and composition of the Australian Meat Board would be reviewed to ensure that the Board is adequately equipped to control and promote Australia's meat exports in the light of present and likely future production and marketing decisions. 
Even this statement is a little surprising, because if we go back less than 6 months from September last year we find that on 2 April when addressing the Central Coast Graziers' Association in Rockhampton, the Minister said: 
The Australian Meat Board is faced with an exceptionally demanding task of great magnitude. These set firm decisionmaking tasks against a background of improving and protecting the interests of the meat industry. Too much criticism of the Board has been negative criticism. If criticism is to be made, it must be constructive. The Board has a difficult task. It has to strike balance, assist the Australian industry and ensure that Australia's meat industry can sell successfully overseas. It needs the highest managerial skills, the best marketing intelligence, the best context. In recent times, it has endeavoured to do its job in an adverse era for the meat industry. To my mind, it has done its job well. 
These remarks imply that in April the Minister was satisfied with the Board, and contrast with his assertion of needing to proceed towards replacing the Board. Further, it is in line with the Minister's reputation throughout the country that he does not spoil a good story with the truth. Again in his letter attached to the statement of 8 September, he said: 
I believe that an early decision concerning reconstitution of the Australian Meat Board will be to the benefit of all connected with the meat industry to enable the Board to commence operation as soon as possible. It is my intention to proceed with the legislation necessary to amend the Board's charter as a matter of priority. 
I am certain that most primary producer organisations understood these remarks to mean that a draft of the legislation would be available before Christmas and brought in during February or March so that the Corporation could have been operating by 1 July of this year. The Minister reinforced this notion of attempting to move quickly when on 2 1 October in a statement dealing with the re-constitution of the Australian Meat Board, he said: 
I can assure all parties that their views and comments will be considered by the Government and an early decision made on the nature and timing of any necessary legislation. 
I emphasise the words, 'an early decision made on the nature and timing of any necessary legislation'. It was not until the producers' criticism reach a  crescendo  that the Minister or the Government showed any haste. In the process of floating his notions about the proposed structure of the Board and its powers and functions, we find the result is that the organisations representing livestock producers are at each other's throats and the Australian Meat Exporters' Federal Council is attacking both the livestock producer organisations and the Minister. This is somewhat ironic because when the Minister was speaking on the Wool Industry Bill on 28 November 1974 he said: 
It is essential that the divisiveness which Labor in office promotes be reduced. 
What nonsense. I believe that the Minister has deliberately set about to cause division within this industry because he knows it will delay the implementation of the Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation proposal. Consequently, it is highly doubtful whether effective trading and the introduction of meat classification on a serious basis will start until at least February or March of next year. This gives a further lie to the election promises made by the National Country Party in November 1975 when it said a system of meat classification would be introduced after consultation with the Australian Meat Board and the industry. 
The Opposition has taken note of the statements by all the producer organisations and has received written statements from them. It has also received the proposals put forward by the Australian Meat Exporters' Federal Council. The Opposition does not oppose the concept of the Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation. In fact, it is in line with its restructuring of the Australian Wool Corporation, the Australian Dairy Corporation and the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation. The Opposition strongly supports this new body. It also supports the structure and composition of the Board. We do so because it was what we devised and would have applied to the Meat Board, although the Opposition cannot help but notice that the proposal which the Minister puts forward is almost identical to the concept, the composition and structure of major rural product marketing corporations initiated by the Australian Labor Party in government and about which the Minister, during his period in Opposition, expressed strong reservations. In fact, it will be most interesting to see how the Minister and his supporters justify their support of this Labor initiative, because the Minister himself on 4 December 1974 said: 
Why should he - 
Referring to the then Minister for Agriculture in the Labor Government,  Senator Wriedt-  accept another body which is elected from the wool growers of this country to represent them. 
In addition,  Mr Bungey,  the National Country Party Member for Canning said: 
I am one who advocates grower control of statutory boards marketing primary products and I fiercely oppose the proposition that in an enlarged Board as is proposed, the proportion of wool grower representation is reduced. 
Importantly, he went on to say: 
The Opposition rejects the changed membership proposal for the Corporation, and rejects the spill which will result. 
It will be interesting to see if  Mr Bungey,  who is still in this Parliament, along with his other colleagues now on the Government benches, will express the same fierce opposition which they professed towards exactly the same restructuring proposal for the wool industry. At least in this matter, the Australian Labor Party is being consistent, which is not something which can be said of the Government. It is no wonder the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation and other organisations are accusing the Government publicly of hypocrisy. 
While we agree with the composition of the Board, we do not agree with the way in which the Minister has structured the trading powers and we have a number of reservations about the levy Bills. It is proposed to amend the Australian Meat and Live-stock Bill in some detail. I should make it clear to primary producers who may be listening to this debate that our intention is not to block the legislation but to try to put it in a form that is more in line with their proposals. We are strongly of the view that if the Minister had approached the negotiations in a different fashion and had been more persistent in talking to the primary producer organisations, this last minute rush would never have happened. The Minister is reaping the harvest of his own delay. 
Fundamental to the producer organisations' proposals, was a notion that the new Corporation should have unfettered commercial autonomy. There are differences in emphasis. The Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation and the Australian Cattlemen's Union want absolute acquisition powers and the Australian National Cattlemen's Council and the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council want commercial autonomy but have reservations about acquisition. The Opposition, like the Government, has reservations about the beef stabilisation proposals. The price of beef cannot be set independent of either other red meats such as mutton and lamb or white meats such as chicken and fish. 
Recent evidence has shown that demand for beef is relatively elastic and a decline in price will lead to a substantial increase in consumption. While not greatly helping the financial position of beef producers, the slump in beef" prices caused a large increase in consumption. From the industry's point of view, it is essential that the rate of consumption be maintained. However, sections of the beef industry do appear to have forgotten that the functions of the existing Australian Meat Board and the proposed Australian 
Meat and Live-stock Corporation are to further the sale of sheep and goat meats as well as livestock. 
In 1970-71 during the dying days of the last Liberal-Country Party Government, the bottom fell out of the wool market. As a consequence, surplus sheep and lambs could not be sold and the price of sheep meats plummeted. That situation may arise again. The large scale factory type production of chickens offers a threat to both beef and sheep meats and any pricing policies must recognise that a fall in feed grain prices would intensify the consumption of white meats. Under these circumstances, the new Corporation cannot deal in isolation. It must be able to influence pricing policies so that if beef is being promoted the interests of sheep meat producers are not prejudiced. If the Board has to constantly refer to the Minister for approval, the Opposition believes that it will make it extremely difficult for the Corporation to meet this competition. The Opposition does not believe that much of Part II of the Act gives the Corporation adequate flexibility. It has doubts, for example, whether the Minister could adequately explain in terms of section 9 (4), what is regarded as 'commercial practice' in the meat industry. The producers' attitudes and marketing approaches are so diverse there is no such thing as an 'average' or basic model. What is commercial practice for one firm would not be for another. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
In principle, the Opposition contends that the Corporation should be able to operate in a similar manner to either the Australian Wheat Board or the Australian Wool Corporation. It is proposed to remove any reference in the legislation to the Board of the Corporation having to seek approval from the Minister to act. Naturally, because it is a statutory corporation and there is a Government appointee on the Board, that person would keep the Minister informed in detail about the Corporation's operations. As with other major primary product marketing boards, the Opposition agrees that the Minister should have the power to issue mandatory directions. Not only does this protect the Government's position, but in the event of it being necessary for the operation of the Board to be co-ordinated with other Government trade policy objectives, the Minister is in a position to issue a direction and the Board shall comply with that direction. 
The Minister has precluded the new Corporation from trading within Australia. It appears that the Government wishes the new Corporation to have a limited scope within which to exercise its powers and functions. While the Opposition is not arguing that the new Corporation should go into the Australian market and compete on a daily basis with meat wholesalers and retailers, it is necessary for the Corporation to have the power at least, to trade within Australia. For this there are several good reasons, one of which is to be able to buy meat so that it can be sold in conjunction with advertising and other promotion work the Corporation might be undertaking. Several years ago, the Meat and Allied Trades Federation attempted to promote the sale of sweet meats, previously described as offal. It would have been helpful if the Australian Meat Board could have been more actively involved and the power to buy stocks of meat to sell as part of the promotion program would have been useful. The operation and interpretation of section 92 of the Constitution effectively prevents the existing operations in the Australian market from domination by the Corporation. To grant the AMLC power to trade locally would be consistent with the powers which have been given to the Australian Wheat Board and the Australian Wool Corporation. On that basis alone, there are no grounds for Government opposition to our amendments. 
One of the major innovations producers and sections of the meat trade are seeking to implement is meat classification. While there are strong arguments about the most suitable method to be used the strong consensus of the industry is that a clear, reputable system of classification is urgently needed. One of the major obstacles is the high capital cost of establishing facilities in some of the existing abattoirs. While the level of profitability of some meat companies does seem to be high, there are grounds for the new Corporation supervising and assisting with the introduction of a standard Australia-wide system of meat classification. It is surprising therefore that section 7 (d) of the Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation Bill is identical with section 23 ( 1 ) and (b) of the existing Meat Industry Act. 
A large number of producers have accused the Australian Meat Board of proceeding very slowly with the devising of a classification scheme and its introduction. Although the Government in its election policy promised the introduction of a classification scheme, it has not publicly urged the Board to proceed with more speed. Unless the Minister can break his procrastination habit, to leave the final decision in his hands awaiting consideration would be a total disaster. The Opposition believes that the new Corporation should be issued with a direction to proceed with the implementation of a meat classifiacation scheme as a matter of urgency and top priority. 
Apart from reference to the Corporation's powers to borrow, there is very little detail about the financial arrangements, especially if the Board decides to trade. What is to happen if the Board trades at a loss? What is to happen with any substantial profits that are made? There is no similar arrangements that exists for the Wool Corporation or the Wheat Board. As meat exports have on occasions been the most rural export and in every year are extremely important, the Opposition contends that the funding arrangements should be more certain than they are. 
The Opposition regards as of paramount importance the appointment of an independent  chairman  and managerial staff of the highest calibre. It is pleasing that in the determination of salaries, the Remuneration Tribunal rather than the Public Service Board shall be the determining body. When the salaries are being determined, particularly that of the  chairman,  the Minister should, as a guide, suggest that they are set at a level so as to attract the best men from industry. The appointment of the  chairman  is a delicate matter but it must be raised because the producers' organisations have been unanimous in requesting that the present  Chairman  of the Australian Meat Board not be re-appointed. I will request an assurance from the Minister at the Committee stage that this will be the case. 
The final matter is the question of the producer consultative groups. The Opposition does not oppose the idea of the consultative groups but has some reservations about their structure and the role of the Australian Meat Industry Conference. It is understandable that the details should be set out in regulations. However, we suspect it is being used as a subterfuge for further delay. In his second reading speech, the Minister spoke about 'the electoral producers' of the consultative groups. This is vague, but is probably deliberately so. What it does not say is whether the members of the producer consultative groups will be elected by the producers themselves, as proposed by the AWMPF and the ACU or by the existing organisations as proposed by the AWGC and the ANCC. The latter two organisations obviously oppose election because they would be outnumbered by representatives from the other organisations. 
The Opposition seeks a clear statement from the Minister on whether he proposes that election to the producer groups will be along the same lines as current elections of members to the Australian Wool Industry Conference or by direct election by livestock producers. If the Minister proposes direct election by producers, we seek a statement on the proposed sheep, lamb, cattle, goat equivalent for the purpose of determining a common basis on which to determine an eligibility qualification. We also seek a statement about the minimum qualifications for an elector and whether voting will be on the basis, one man, one vote or a multiple voting system. 
The composition of the Australian Meat Industry Conference has not been stated. Prior to the end of this debate we trust that the Minister will have given some sort of guidelines to the House. The Minister expressed this view on 4 December: 
As far as I am concerned, the farmer deserves a say on the Corporation just as much as representatives of the trade union movement deserve their say. He should not accept any move by this Government to destroy the opportunity of a farmer having a say in regard to the wages and salaries of the people he employs. We accept that the trade unions should be represented on the Corporation. 
There are a number of other minor matters which the Opposition believes deserve less hurried consideration by both the Parliament and the organisations which have an interest in this legislation. The only good fortune is that due to the speed with which this legislation was put to the Parliament, it will be here for amendment in the near future. 
-In my view the reply of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is unsatisfactory. The Australian Wool Corporation has power to trade and process products in Australia without complementary legislation. Although we realise that there are constitutional impediments to such a provision, the Government could seek complementary legislation from the States, as it has done with the Australian Wheat Board, to enable the Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation to trade within Australia. Therefore the Opposition will press the amendment to a division. I also would like to ask the Minister whether he will explain to the Parliament what he means by the phrase 'commercial practice' in sub-clause 4. 

 Mr Deputy Chairman, is it competent for me to ask the Minister these questions at this stage before I move my second amendment to this clause? The Opposition intends to divide on this and the following amendment. Am I obliged to move the other amendment now before the division on the first amendment? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-The  problem is whether the honourable member is entitled to speak for the second time on the same clause. As far the Chair is concerned, the honourable member can move his other amendment to clause 9 later if he wishes. 
Thank you. I will move my second amendment to clause 9 later. 
-I would like at this stage to ask the Minister a number of questions which I have already circulated. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  I think it would be wiser if the honourable member moved his amendment straight away so that he will not be speaking more than once to the one amendment. If the honourable member puts his questions after that, the Chair will have not objection. 
All right. I move: 
Omit sub-clause (4), substitute the following sub-clause: 
The Corporation shall at regular intervals inform the Minister in writing of all purchases and sales made by the Corporation during the period since the Minister was last informed.'. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! Honourable members will not stand in the aisles. 
They are not interested, so why do they stay? The purpose of the amendment is to give the Board commercial autonomy and to ensure that the Minister is informed of any commercial transactions that take place. This would enable the Board to compete principally on the international market but if necessary on the local market, and we commend the amendment to the Committee and to the Minister. 
May I add that I would like the Minister to explain, in terms of the questions which I have circulated, what he means in the legislation by the phrase 'with commercial practice'. Does the Minister have any guidelines which would clarify to the Parliament what is meant by this term? The Opposition is concerned that the procedures adopted in the meat selling industry are so diverse that it is very difficult to establish what is commercial practice'. Will the Minister provide these guidelines before the Parliament rises at the end of the week? Finally, does the word owner' in sub-clause (10) of clause 11 adequately cover all people who own livestock? Does it cover, for example, persons with livestock on agistment or livestock bought and travelled along stock routes? Does it also cover livestock dealers? 
I move: 
After clause 9, insert the following new clause: 9a. The Minister may give directions to the board concerning the performance of the functions and the exercise of the powers and the board shall comply with those directions.' 
The purpose of this clause is to protect the Government's position by giving the Minister the power to issue a mandatory direction to the board of the Corporation. This is identical to a provision in the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act which growers have found entirely satisfactory. In simple terms it is in line with the general amendments being moved by the Opposition. They seek to have the Minister out of the kitchen cabinet of the operations of the Board and yet give the Minister a mandatory power to issue a direction to the Board to protect the position of the Government. We think this is a reasonable proposition. It guarantees the autonomy of the Board. It guarantees the autonomy of the Corporation. It is not just then subservient totally to the Minister in its every day actions and performances. Yet the Minister, if this amendment is carried, reserves the right to issue directions to the Board with which the Board would, of course, be obliged to comply. 
-For the information of the ignorant members of the National Country Party of Australia I point out that the word 'Board' refers to the Board of the Corporation. Perhaps I should clear up one of the points that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  raised in terms of political rhetoric. He talked about the Australian Labor Party imposing a bureaucracy upon the Corporation. The fact is that the Corporation now will have to come cap in hand to the Minister for practically every decision. There is to be a bureaucracy which is supposed to be autonomous and which is in fact to be subject to ministerial control at every turn of the way. What we are saying is that if the Government is going to the trouble of setting up a corporation with statutory powers it should give it the functions to operate properly in a commercial atmosphere. Certainly let the Government have powers over it and let the Government be able through the Minister to issue directions to the Corporation. That is what we are arguing. It is completely consistent with the proper utilisation of the functions of a statutory corporation. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ) (d), omit 'approved in writing by the Minister upon the recommendation of the Corporation', substitute 'established by the Board of the Corporation and conveyed to the Minister in writing'. 
This amendment is in line with the general view that the Opposition has taken. Clause 14 deals with contracts for the shipment of meat and livestock-carriage agreements. The way the Bill reads at the moment, such agreements can be approved only by the Minister upon the recommendation of the Corporation. We are suggesting that such agreements should be established by the Board of the Corporation and conveyed to the Minister in writing. There is a shade of difference in what we propose. The difference is mainly that the Board will be able to be more autonomous and can then convey the matter to the Minister in writing. We suggest that if the Minister were in disagreement with the arrangements, he could, under the other powers, issue a direction. However, our intention here is to remove the Minister from the position of having to approve every single, solitary action of the Corporation. Therefore we are proposing that amendment and commending it to the Government, to the Minister and to the Committee. 
-On behalf of the Opposition, I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 
5. ( 1 ) Without limiting the generality of sections 8 and 9, the Corporation may- 
for the purposes of, or for purposes incidental to, international undertakings to which the Commonwealth is a party, purchase meat and live-stock and export, or sell for export, meat and live-stock owned by the Corporation; 
appoint agents, either in Australia or elsewhere; 
authorise the use of any patent vested in the Corporation; 
engage consultants on terms and conditions determined by the Board of the Corporation; and 
enter into arrangements or agreements with persons, authorities or organisations in Australia or elsewhere, or with a State, for the purposes of the Corporation. 
) The Corporation may operate, either on its own behalf or in conjunction with another person, authority or organisation, an undertaking providing services or facilities for use in connection with the sale within Australia or export of Australian meat or live-stock, and may, for that purpose, do all things that are necessary or convenient to be done for the purpose of acquiring, constructing, establishing or operating such an undertaking. 
The Corporation shall inform the Minister in writing of any decision made or action taken in accordance with paragraph 1 (a) or (b) or sub-section (2) within 7 days of any such decision being made or action taken. '. 
Again, in line with the general tenor of the Opposition's amendments, this amendment has been moved to provide the Corporation with more autonomy. The Corporation is to inform the Minister of any specific undertaking within a specified time. This is different from the provision which presently operates in the Bill. We believe our amendment gives the Corporation more necessary autonomy to carry out its proper functions in the market place. 
-The whole question of the producer consultative group seems to be unclear. While the Opposition does not oppose this clause it believes that the whole matter is entirely vague. We would have preferred to see the Minister place more detail in the legislation. Thus we seek more information from the Minister. If adequate answers are not received, amendments to this clause will be moved in the Senate. In his second reading speech, the Minister said: 
The composition of both groups and the electoral procedures for the producer consultative group members will be decided shortly in consultation with industry representatives. While initially it is intended that these be prescribed, subsequent amendment to the Act is possible to ensure maintenance of the composition and electoral procedures of the consultative groups. 
Will the Minister state whether he proposes that the producer consultative group members are to be elected directly by producers or indirectly by the producer organisations, as is the case with the Australian Wool Industry Conference? If he proposes to have direct election from producers, what does he propose for the sheep, cattle and goat equivalent which should form the common basis in determining voting qualifications? If he proposes direct election, would voting be on a one man, one vote basis or on a multiple voting basis? If the Minister decides against direct election by producers and appoints members of the group nominated by existing organisations, from which organisations will he make selections? I understand that this is the policy of the Australian National Cattlemen's Council and the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers' Council. If producer organisations cannot reach agreement, what action does the Minister propose? Can he answer the questions without behaving like a schoolmaster? 
In this clause the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has provided for the formation of the Australian Meat Industry Conference. The Opposition seeks an assurance that both trade unions and consumers will be represented on the AMIC. In view of the apparent importance of this body, the Opposition also seeks details about the composition of the AMIC and the specific functions the Minister proposes. I realise that he may not be able to give all the details required about the producer consultative group. We seek an assurance from the Minister that the details will be made available prior to the Bill being debated in the Senate, which I think will be on Thursday afternoon. 
The other area with which the Minister has not dealt adequately is the financial resources of the Corporation. The Opposition requests that the Minister give some specific indication on the following matters: Will the Corporation be given authority to trade in substantial quantities of meat or livestock if it requests to do so on a commercial basis? What would happen to the profits from any such transaction? Would they be returned to consolidated revenue or held by the Corporation to form a trading fund? What would happen if losses were incurred? Would these be met by the Government or would the Corporation have to borrow funds to carry the loss on a short term basis? If not, what arrangements would be made? Does the Government propose that the Corporation should have established a trading fund on a basis similar to the wheat and wool industries but modified to suit the meat industry? The Opposition would appreciate receiving specific answers to these questions prior to Thursday so that we can consider whether amendments should be moved in the Senate. Of course, we would much prefer to have specific answers now. 
It is about time that the Government came clean on the question of uranium exports. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  is just starting to put on a little bit of pace. Let me just make this point clear. I quoted as the basis for the last major speech I made on this subject in the House of Representatives 2 extracts from the first report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquirythe Fox report. It is stated on page 1 79 of the report: 
A total renunciation of intention to supply designed to bring an end to all nuclear power industries or all  further  development of them would in our view be likely to fail totally in its purpose. If the purpose were simply to draw international attention to the dangers of and associated with the industry, that purpose might be achieved, but it is most unlikely that any worthwhile action would result. On the other hand, there are positive reasons against adopting such a course. 
The report goes on to state on page 1 80: 
We are aware of the view that total renunciation of intention to supply is undesirable. 
I agree with those sentiments and I stand by the remarks I made in the previous speech about them. But implicit in the Labor policy is this: The international nuclear industry is unintentionally contributing, as the Fox inquiry suggested, to the risk of nuclear war. For this reason, Labor has placed emphasis upon the question of safeguard development and waste disposal technology. Let me repeat the words uttered by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  in his first statement to the House on the presentation of the first Fox report. He said: 
The Government welcomes any international initiatives for strengthening the international non-proliferation regime. 
In other words, he said that the Government will do nothing itself about it. But if somebody else does the work to propose new safeguards, then maybe the Government will adopt them. There was no intention on the part of the Government at that time- that is 5 months ago- to do anything about safeguards. The Government has stolen the spirit of the Labor safeguard policy and tried to twist it so as to suggest that Labor is trying to put the damper on the development of the international nuclear community by withholding Australian reserves when, in fact, what we have been saying is that time has to be devoted to the development of international safeguards for protection against the proliferation of nuclear weapons. We have said that this will take time, just as the strategic arms limitation talks have taken time between only 2 major super powers. Those talks have taken years. What we are dealing with here is a regime of safeguards governing a whole gaggle of nations who have moved and are moving into nuclear power. To do anything substantial about the development of safeguards will be a long, arduous and complex task. All we ask of the Government is this: Do not discount our asset. 
Do not discount our leverage by permitting exports now. Try to at least get some real improvement in the nature of these safeguards. 
The Minister says that the policy of the Opposition is to move the world closer towards a plutonium economy and that we should fall into line immediately with the policy of the United States of America to prevent this. I think that the prima facie policy of the United States is commendable. I said so in my last major speech in the Parliament on the subject that the policy of the United States is important because of its pervasive influence in the West, in the nuclear industry, in technology, in the monetary system and in global defence. Obviously, the United States has a huge input into the West in terms of any policy initiative it seeks to have accepted. But the point is, as the  Deputy  Prime Minister is aware, the French and the Japanese will go it alone in fast breeder development no matter what the United States says. That is how they see it. These nations are short on resources and because they have progressed in fast breeder technology they will not fall over themselves to suit United States nuclear policy. A little bit of the rub of what the United States is now doing is to opt out of fast breeder development because it is in some respects having problems with fast breeder technology development. 
The real issue is this: The world, regardless of the fast breeder, will come to rely upon a large program of conventional thermal reactors. The fast breeder reactor, even if its development were accelerated, would not be a large component of the commercial reactor programs of the Western world until around the turn of the century or later. The development of pilot fast breeder reactors is just beginning. It will be beyond the turn of the century before they proliferate to become a large component of nuclear power generation. At that stage there will be a larger market for uranium to fuel conventional nuclear reactors. The  Deputy  Prime Minister said that I had rubbished- that is the world he used- the International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards. He said that I did this to the detriment of that Agency and to the detriment of mankind. Let me quote what was stated in the Fox report in regard to the IAEA safeguards, lt is stated at page 120: 
Experience with IAEA safeguards demonstrates that countries have noi been prepared - 
I stress the words ' not been prepared '-  to accept continuous surveillance of nuclear activities by an external authority. The control system established by the Agency involves accounting methods augmented by regular on the spot' inspections. The inspections are carried OUt by a  team of skilled personnel within the IAEA: as at 30 June 1976 according to information available to the Commission, there were 79 inspectors, of whom about 50 regularly carried out inspections. Several witnesses were of the opinion that this force was far too small to maintain effective surveillance of existing installations covered by IAEA safeguards. 
In addition, I will quote from the speech of the Deputy Prime Minister when the first Fox report was presented. He said: 
The Commission recognises that these defects taken together are so serious that existing safeguards may provide only an illusion of protection. However, we do not conclude that they render valueless the concept of international safeguards. We believe it is both essential and possible to make safeguard arrangements more effective. 
Could anyone now complain that I monstered the IAEA or that I have rubbished the IAEA? All I am saying is that the International Atomic Energy Agency is an imperfect instrument in a very imperfect nuclear world and that the basis of the Government's safeguards policy is too reliant upon the IAEA system of safeguards which is clearly inadequate. The Fox report backs what I said. So I think I have had enough of the Deputy Prime Minister trying to lecture me about the IAEA to disguise the real question about the competence of the IAEA to render an effective system of safeguards. The system just clearly does not exist. The Deputy Prime Minister says in his speech: 
Our policy incorporates the kinds of ideas in relation to safeguards being put forward by the Leader of the Opposition. 
Of course, the Government has incorporated the policies of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  The Government has trailed the Opposition in nuclear policy all along. The Government had no idea of safeguards. The Government had no idea what to do with Australia's uranium policy. Now it is trying to pick up our lines on safeguards. But instead of doing it as we have and suggesting that time is needed for the development of adequate safeguards the Government is now formulating instant policy such as the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  before he left for the United States a week ago. This was a similar proposal to that the Leader of the Opposition enunciated in his speech in the Parliament a month ago. So much for your flattery of the Leader of the Opposition's proposal. All you have done is adopt his proposal and yet manage to abort the intention of his speech. So really you have not thought about safeguards. You have not really thought about the international environmental interest or the dangers. All you have thought about is getting your greasy little paws on the money even at this point when a proper market has not even developed- assuming that the market is your criterion. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister in his speech said that the Labor Party decision pre-empted the Government's decision on the question of exports. Let us get this in perspective. The Labor Party made its decision after the presentation of the first Fox report which addressed itself to the question of exports. The second Fox report deals only with mining particular deposits in the Northern Territory. It is the first report which deals with the question of whether Australia should export. That report was presented on a Thursday, the last sitting day of a parliamentary week, about 5 or 6 months ago. On the following Tuesday you were to make a statement in the Parliament about the first report and about exports in relation to existing contracts. What you intended to do was jamb the Opposition into a parliamentary debate - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  I point out to the honourable member for Blaxland that I will not be bringing in anything. It is the Government which will be bringing in legislation and taking action. The Chair does not do it. 
I did not propose that. 
Was the Treasurer or his Foreign Investment Review Board informed by Conzinc Riotinto Australia of its open share market activities to take over the Australian coal miner, Coal and Allied Industries Ltd? Does this action by a foreign-owned company contravene the provisions of the Foreign Takeovers Act? Did the covert market raid before notification by CRA give it an advantage over another competitor for Coal and Allied Industries, the Australian company, Peko-Wallsend? Can the Treasurer seriously regard the view of the Foreign Investment Review Board in this case when one of its members,  Sir William  Pettingell, is a director of Coal and Allied Industries? Do the Treasurer and the Government approve of the takeover? If not, will the Government insist upon the divestiture of the Coal and Allied Industries shares held by CRA or is the Foreign Investment Act a token piece of legislation to be flouted at the whim and caprice of any foreign corporation? 
-In reply to the statement made by the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony),  I want to say briefly that what we have heard in the last few minutes was virtually a home town decision by the Government in support of its corporate friends when it has had a year to consider the report of the Industries Assistance Commission, which was presented in September last year. The Opposition has announced on other occasions that it is sympathetic to the general thrust of the IAC report where increases in the price of crude are accompanied by the presence of a secondary taxing structure. But what we have heard tonight represents an increase of 1 lc a gallon in the price of fuel to the Australian consumer, to the motorist in the city and to the farmer, and a massive increase in profitability for the main producers of oil in Australia, the Esso-BHP consortium in Bass Strait. 
The Minister said in his speech that the Government is considering the application of a resources tax on these profits and that, accordingly, the Government will be seeking early discussions with the relevant oil producing companies on the matter. That is not good enough. 
The Government was presented with the IAC report 12 months ago and that report canvassed a secondary taxing or royalties system. The Treasury should have been instructed to present the Government forthwith with a number of taxing scenarios which the Government could have considered for simultaneous introduction with these proposals. Not only do we find that that is not the case, but also that the real story is hidden. There is no express mention in the Minister's statement of the kind of profitability which will flow to the companies by virtue of these decisions. On my quick estimate, from BHP and Esso, the Bass Strait producers, which have three fields which qualify under the 6 million barrels a year provision, there will be approximately 13 million barrels in respect of which the Government is offering import parity of $13. Taking into account the present price of $2.30, as well as the $3 a barrel, the benefit will be about $7.70 a barrel over 13 million barrels. That means that the Government has put $ 100m in excess profits into the hands of Esso and BHP without any express commitment to spend that money on new exploration. 
The Minister said that he hopes there will be new exploration. He should have insisted. There should have been an express provision that the money given to the companies would be spent in that way. As well, massive additional revenue will flow to the Government from these arrangements. That additional revenue should have been spent on alternative energy technology and research into alternative energy resources, but that was not mentioned in the statement. I believe that it is a very inadequate statement. It is a home town decision for Esso-BHP and the other oil producers. The Government ought to be ashamed. It has had 12 months to introduce a taxing system and it has failed to measure up to the challenge. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-This statement, like the statement delivered last night by the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony),  is another demonstration of a blatant broken promise by the Fraser Government. The Minister has just introduced under the guise of a water resources policy a statement which allocates $6.5m to water resources as against $9.4m allocated in the last Budget and $9.9m in the Budget before. It might be edifying for the House for me to refer to page 92 of the Budget papers to see what the Government has done with water resource allocations. In 1975-6 the actual expenditure on all water projects totalled $28.6m under the Whitlam Government. It declined this year to an estimated $ 14.9m. When that figure is adjusted to take account of inflation, it can be seen that there is a 75 per cent decline in real terms over the spending for the previous year and a 50 per cent decline in actual terms. Yet the Minister has the hide to come into the Parliament today and say that the Government has a program of water resources. As recently as 3 May he supplied the answer to a question asked in the Senate. The answer is reported on page 1090 of Senate  Hansard  of 3 May 1977 as follows: 
The present Government does not have a program of assistance to the States for water projects. 
Quite clearly, what has now been proposed is a ruse. The Government has run out on commitments made on the question of water resources not only by the Whitlam Government in that period but also by previous Liberal-National Country Party governments. The first agreement was made in 1 947-48 with the West Australian Grant (Water Supply) Act. Similarly, there was the Blowering water storage works agreement in 1963 and the Chowilla reservoir agreement of 1963. There was also the New South Wales Flood Mitigation Act. There has been a myriad of pieces of legislation and commitments by the Commonwealth to these programs and to new ones which have been entered into. 
The Minister says that I do not understand the statement. I ask him: What about the agreement on the River Murray? The greatest river in Australia, sadly, is unpotable. This affects not only all the people who live on the River Murray but particularly the people in the cities of Adelaide and Whyalla who, of course, use the River Murray as their major supply of water. For the first time in 60 years under the former Labor Government, Prime Minister Whitlam and Environment Minister Cass convened a meeting of the 3 interested premiersthe Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  and the then Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Askin-  to deal with the water quality as distinct from the water quantity of the River Murray. 
Because Premier Askin at the time was tardy in dealing with the New South Wales polluters, little agreement came out of the meeting. 
-These Bills give legislative effect to measures announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his Budget Speech on Tuesday evening last. Basically the Bills increase the duty on refined petroleum products, diesel fuel and liquid petroleum gas. In the case of diesel fuel, the increase in excise duty will be in the order of a quarter of a cent per litre or about 1 . 1 3c per gallon and with liquid petroleum gas the increase in excise is of the order of one-eighth of a cent per litre or .56c per gallon. This seems inconsequential though these measures will raise substantial amounts of additional revenue this financial year. This approach by the Government will not in any significant way change the pattern of energy consumption by industries that use these fuels. Rather, the measure is designed more as a revenue raiser for the Government than it is an integral part of any comprehensive energy policy. 
Since taking office the Government has had a number of reports from the Royal Commission on Petroleum presented to it. The Sixth Report on the use of liquefied petroleum gas in Australia has not yet been acted upon and these measures in no way give effect to the recommendations of the Commission in respect of liquefied petroleum gas usage. It is a tragic fact that Australia's quite large production of liquefied petroleum gas is not being used domestically to conserve indigenous crude oil particularly the light end fractions. There is no real domestic market for liquefied petroleum gas in Australia and this has been caused basically by the fact that discriminate pricing policies have been a disincentive to producers as an inducement to create a domestic market. The Budget does nothing about correcting this problem yet the Treasurer attempted to argue that this increase in excise wil be a mitigating factor against the profligate use of these fuels. 
Rather than discourage the use of liquefied petroleum gas in Australia the Government should be encouraging it and it should be attempting to make liquefied petroleum gas more attractive to the consumer as a substitute for refined motor spirit. While this will necessitate the increase in the price to producers aU the increase in excise can do is act as an inhibitant to the growing proportion of liquefied petroleum gas usage. It is because these measures are unrelated and not part of a broader domestic energy policy but rather as a simple revenue raising device that the Opposition must oppose these three Bills 
Higher energy costs, which can act as a conservation measure, can only do so if other energy options are available to consumers, or in the case of transport, if other transport facilities are avail.able as an alternative to excessive consumption of motor spirit by motor cars and trucks. As well as that, at this time I believe one can argue that there should be no additional inflationary burden levied upon the Australian public. And of course, to add insult to injury the Government Will probably argue before the Arbitration Commission that the Commission should disregard increases in indirect taxes in its wage determinations as it did with the Medibank levy and as it wil do with the effects of these three pieces of legislation. 
Already excise duty accounts for a large proportion of total Commonwealth receipts. In the last financial year excise duty, as distinct from sales tax and customs duty, amounted to $2,485 billion in the total receipt picture for the Commonwealth of $21,384 billion. In fact last year excise duty collections equalled just on 30 per cent of net personal income tax pay-as-you-earn collections, lt should not be the Government's role to increase the indirect tax burden but rather to reduce it. These measures are no more than tax raising devices sold under the guise of energy policy. In the absence of any comprehensive approach to energy matters the Government's explanation in support of the measures cannot be accepted. 
-The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  dealt very eloquently with the record of Rex Connor, as did the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the Australian National Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  But his death is a great personal loss to me, to the Parliament and to the nation. He was a great nationalist, as people have described him. He developed a strategy for Australia's wealth and resources at a time really when no one else was interested in this subject. When I came to Canberra in 1969 only two or three people in the Parliament really had any interest in national resources. Only a few people had ever thought about the huge potential which Australia would gain from these massive endowments. Yet he put a plan of his own together. He was a man of vision whose paramount aim was that Australia's natural endowments should be developed for the benefit of Australians under the control of Australians so that Australia itself could control its destiny. To that end he was successful. 
At this stage in our history I do not think anyone will argue that resources policy has taken on a direction, even under the present Government, which cannot be sheeted home directly to the foresight of Rex Connor. Internationally he was respected by our trading partners. On my visit to Japan last year senior people in the Japanese Government and in Japanese business told me that they were surprised at the tenacity with which he pursued the Australian national interest when that had not been the case so often with other Australian Ministers. He forced a shake-out of opinions of vested interests and companies around the world which were interested in Australia. I think most of them now privately concede that the general directions which he took were correct. 
The unfortunate thing about Rex Connor was that the pressure of public life took heavy toll of his health. If one looks at the constant pressures of politics one finds that perhaps he paid a higher price in recent memory than did anyone we can recall. He was subjected to constant vilification while he was a Minister, not just for his ministerial views or his public responsibilities. He was attacked rather personally for the better part of 3 years not only by his opponents but also by the media. Perhaps that is why he had no time for the Press or for the media generally. 
I thought it was a shame that a great Australian who had worked tirelessly for the benefit of the nation should be pursued privately- that is by the device of the Sankey case- with his public deeds becoming the subject of a private prosecution. He took the law seriously. The prospect weighed very heavily upon him that in retirement he could still be facing criminal prosecution for something he was alleged to have done as a Minister. I think this case is a blight upon this Parliament not just because of Rex Connor's death with the charge against him unresolved but because the case for the prosecution seeks to establish that everybody in the Parliament can be held privately accountable for public deeds. I think that matter told very heavily on his health, unfortunately, and was a contributing factor in his decline. Nevertheless I think the testimony to his life is the fact that kind, nice things can be said about him in a genuine way. He was a great Australian. He was a slave to no ideology. He was a pragmatist and always put the Australian national interest first and foremost.  His  death is a great loss to the Parliament and the nation and to me personally. I join the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and other speakers in expressing my sympathy to his sons and loved ones. 
-This statement is long overdue. It is the first official indication from the Government that it supports the concept of large scale natural gas exports. The statement outlines commitments which would cover investments in the North West Shelf extending nearly until the end of the century. Because of this factor the attitude of the Opposition as an alternative government is critical to the future of the investment. The statement details a number of important aspects relating to the project, the prime one being that the Government would permit the export of 53 per cent of the currently estimated reserves of gas in the three fields, North Rankin, Goodwyn and Angel, over a 20-year period. The attitude of the Opposition, as stated in its latest national platform, is that it supports the development of the North West Shelf gas field. It does so in these terms: 
Labor will allow exports of natural gas from the North West Shelf sufficient to justify development expenditure but not more than should be allowed in the national interest, having regard to Australia's domestic demand for hydrocarbons. 
The Opposition is of the view that the development of this field now is important for Australia in a number of respects. Firstly, the infrastructure established by an export market can supplement Western Australia's vital energy needs with natural gas in the coming decades. Secondly, the project will demonstrate that Australia is capable of developing a field of this size. This should serve to stimulate further confidence and investment in serious off-shore exploration and development of hydrocarbons. 
Turning to the specific proposals announced by the Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony),  the Opposition finds there are a number of areas that need to be clarified and amplified. While the Opposition agrees with the export of natural gas it is vitally concerned to see that adequate reserves are maintained for Australia's future domestic requirements. It firmly believes that natural gas will provide an energy foundation block for Australia's industrial development between now and the end of the century. The Minister indicated in his statement that the estimated shortfall of gas supplies for the eastern States and South Australia by the end of the century is of the order of 3 to 4 trillion cubic feet, but what he has failed to tell the Parliament is precisely how the Government arrived at an export figure of 53 per cent of current estimated reserves which, of course, is about  6V2  trillion feet. It is not sufficient for the Minister to declare that 53 per cent of reserves is the minimum export level needed to justify the investment when in fact it could be less. The Minister must provide the Parliament with adequate documentation to back up the Government's assessment. It is of only marginal value to refer to the opinion of the National Energy Advisory Committee without providing the correspondence from the  Chairman  and the Committee's calculations. Bald statements are not enough. Because this statement by the Government is only the beginning of a long feasibility study by the Joint Venturers there is adequate time available to satisfy the Parliament that the Government's permissible export level is correct. 
The Minister indicated in his speech that exports of condensate will also be permitted subject to satisfactory evidence that every reasonable effort has been made to market the product in Australia. Before the Government blithely puts this resource in the hands of the consortium for export it must determine what role condensate should play in Australia's total energy picture. Certainly a Labor government would. Condensate should not be exploited by the North West Shelf producers in the same way that liquid petroleum gas has been exploited by the Bass Strait producers- a gift that is being sold at world market prices without the Government requiring that a market for domestic consumption be developed, especially in respect of transport. The Opposition notes that the project will be subject to an environmental impact statement, but it needs to be reassured that such an environmental inquiry is conducted by the Commonwealth perhaps with State participationbut certainly not left solely to the State of Western Australia. 
I turn now to taxation. It has always been implied by the Joint Venturers and the Government that this project would be only marginally profitable and would need all the assistance it could get to become viable. While the Opposition accepts this assumption prima facie it is in no position now to establish that this is so. If in the future the performance of the investment exceeds expectations and is such that returns exceed reasonable profit levels, the investment may breach the threshhold levels fixed under a secondary profits related resource tax that a future Labor government would introduce. The consortium should ponder this possibility. It is notable that the Minister makes no reference to the Government's proposed resource tax on crude oil having any application to the North West Shelf project. 
On the specific taxation measures outlined by the Government, the Opposition accepts that the petroleum mining provisions of the income tax laws should be amended to permit a range of allowable capital expenditures such as the cost of a liquefaction plant to be written off at petroleum mining depreciation rates. Whilst there can be a technical argument about whether the liquefaction plant is fundamentally a manufacturing plant or part of the mining process, it is clear that accelerated depreciation allowance on this item of equipment at mining rates will facilitate a more substantial cash flow to meet debt servicing requirements. 
The Minister also indicated in his speech that the Government proposes to extend by two years the period within which capital expenditure on the acquisition of certain plant and equipment will be able to qualify for an investment allowance deduction of 20 per cent. He then went on to say that in deciding to extend the period of this concession the Government wished to ensure that in the future large development projects will be influenced by the availability of the incentive provided by the special income tax deduction. This statement is ambiguous. The Opposition is not certain whether the Government intends that the investment allowance should be extended by two years for this project only or whether it means that the provision will be permanently available for large investments at Cabinet discretion. The Minister should explain to the House whether this provision is an across the board measure or is limited to this project. Until this point is clarified the Opposition can give no indication of its attitude to this measure. 
In his statement the Minister also outlined a completely new income tax concession to encourage exploration and development of off-shore petroleum deposits. While this may be associated and applicable to the North West Shelf venture, obviously the measure is intended for wider application, and should properly have been the subject of a separate statement. Certainly there is a need to step up off-shore exploration and the Government is long overdue in coming to terms with the inadequacy of Australia's off-shore exploration effort. In this sense the Opposition is sympathetic to proposals which encourage new exploration activity. 
The new concession outlined by the Minister will operate in much the same way as the former section 77C and 77D concession operated before it was repealed by the Labor Government. It was repealed because of the abuses which took place under the guise of subscriptions for exploration. This new provision apparently recognises the problem of abuse for the Minister has indicated that moneys will need to be spent on eligible outgoings within the two income years following the year in which the moneys are subscribed. When the legislation is introduced it must have a provision which requires proof of expenditure being established before deductions are permitted for subscriptions. The statement is a little unclear, however, as to whether subscriptions will be limited to companies holding licences under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act only or whether it will be extended to on-shore explorers. In the second paragraph on page 7 of the statement the Minister refers only to a petroleum exploration or mining company. The general tenor of this proposed legislation meets with the Opposition's approval. However, it does reserve the right to scrutinise and finally determine its attitude when the amending legislation is presented by the Treasurer (  Mr Lynch  ). 
Finally, the Minister has been remiss in not referring to the foreign investment aspects of this project. He dismisses this in one paragraph. He gives no indication of what the level of foreign participation is in the venture, and on what basis the Government has approved of the percentages. The Opposition believes that the level of foreign equity is about 52 per cent of the total project. Whilst this is near the targets established by the foreign investment guidelines of both major parties, it still technically breaches the guidelines of the Government. Obviously one or more of the foreign partners will need to shed a small percentage of their equity to Australian interests so that the project can comply with the letter and spirit of the foreign investment policy. This would certainly be required by a Labor government. 
In conclusion, the Opposition accepts the proposed policy of the Government wherein the Minister states in respect of major projects involving estimated capital expenditure of $500m or more that longer term assurances of freedom from future adverse changes to the controls on overseas borrowings will be guaranteed. Of course, these provisions announced by the Government are but the beginning of this massive undertaking. Because of its importance to the national economy the Opposition would like to see the project proceed and succeed. However, as the foregoing indicates, the Opposition will require far more information on the development and it will closely monitor all Government initiatives with regard to the project. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Donald  Cameron) adjourned. 
-I rise to support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  The series of statements by Ministers of the Fraser Government setting out the Government's uranium policy this afternoon constitute one of the greatest propaganda exercises ever mounted in the national Parliament. For months the Government, in Cabinet and in the bureaucracy, has laboured to bring down its policy. But in fact the decision to export has been a foregone conclusion ever since the Fraser Government came to power. But the Fraser Government's policy fails because it does not allay the fears of the Australian people as to the consequences of uranium mining in both the national and international sense. The consequences of nuclear power are global. It is an international problem affecting not only this generation of mankind but future generations as well. Yet the Fraser Government has reduced the problems to mere rhetorical flourishes and in terms that emphasise the economic benefits to Australia only. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have some protection from the rabble opposite? The key to the Fraser Government's uranium policy is haste- haste to sell it to the Americans, haste to sell it to Europe in exchange, hopefully, for more beef exports to the European market and haste to fulfil  Mr Fraser  's election promises to the mining companies that his Government would fill their coffers once again. 
The Australian Labor Party says, in accord with the second option of the Fox Report that we should delay the development of the Australian uranium industry. We say delay because it is the only responsible national and international policy. The Labor Party national platform makes it clear that there should be no commitment of Australia's uranium deposits to the world's nuclear fuel cycle until the problems of the proliferation of nuclear weapons and the disposal of highly radioactive wastes from nuclear power plants have been solved. As the Leader of the Opposition has pointed out the policy of the Labor Party is not a 'leave it in the ground forever' policy. It is a policy of delay and a policy of using Australia's uranium resources as a lever to ensure that uranium consuming countries develop adequate non-proliferation safeguards that will work and that the nuclear industry has in fact developed the technology to dispose of nuclear waste. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  makes continual references in his statement to the uranium initiatives of the Whitlam Government and in fact the Government has continued the Ranger arrangement even though, as he says, it goes against his philosophy. It is a cheap political point and ignores the fact that the Whitlam policies were introduced before the Reports of the Fox Commission and the Flowers Commission in the United Kingdom were available. The Labor Party policy in government was developed before Australians had the benefit of information contained in those reports which outlined the hazards of nuclear power and the need for proper and adequate methods of control of these hazards. These controls cannot be developed overnight. It is pertinent that the nuclear power industry has been ongoing as a commercial industry for over 25 years and yet there are no adequate safeguards to prevent the proliferation of weapons nor are there adequate waste disposal techniques. 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, in his haste to please foreign governments and a handful of Australian mining companies has glossed over these problems. The Fraser Government is prepared to export uranium now and hope that sometime in the future proper safeguards will be worked out. The Fraser Government is prepared to make this valuable resource available without conditions. Instead of putting the carrot in front of the donkey it has fed the carrot to the donkey. The only way to ensure that problems of proliferation and waste disposal are solved is to delay the supply of uranium until the consuming countries provide adequate evidence that the problems are in fact solved. This is the central basis of the policy of my party. 
Let us look at the problem of waste disposal first. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  have taken a particularly offhand attitude to this issue. The cynicism of the government on this matter is best illustrated in the statement by the Minister for the Environment, Housing and Community Development,  Mr Newman,  when he states: 
The disposal of nuclear waste and the potential environmental problems which this could pose have been matters of public concern. The responsibility Tor disposing, in an environmentally responsible manner of waste arising from nuclear power generation in countries abroad, is a matter for those countries which generate electricity by nuclear means. 
In other words, the Government is simply washing its hands of this matter and while the Opposition agrees that nuclear waste should not be dumped in Australia, it believes that in the interests of mankind a solution to this problem must be found before exports are allowed from Australia. It is not good enough for the Government to say as it does that the problem of nuclear waste has been examined by a number of eminent independent authorities. Nor is it good enough to say that processes have been developed to solidify nuclear wastes into glasslike substances. Information available to the Opposition indicates that these processes are far from proven. In fact the Fox Report at page 1 10 states: 
There is at present no generally accepted means by which high level wastes can be permanently isolated from the environment and remain safe for very long periods. 
Further evidence of the Fraser's Government's failure to come to grips with the immense problems associated with nuclear power development is contained in the policy with regard to the development of uranium mines. The Fox Report recommended that the mines be developed on a sequential basis. The Commission had a sound basis for this recommendation, namely that the gradual development of the industry would allow Australia to take advantage of the increased demand for uranium from 1985 onwards and not create an oversupply situation. In other words, sequential development would ensure that Australia maximised its returns. But the Fraser Government has adopted a  laissez faire  approach in which every company with a uranium deposit can develop its mine whenever it wants to. Such an approach by the Fraser Government is consistent with the approach it took in the development of the iron ore mines in the Pilbara in the 1960s and the coal mines of Queensland. The result of that policy was that the buyers played off one producer against another, forced down the price and the overall return to the Australian people was less than it should have been. 
There is little doubt that even with the freeforall development policy adopted by the Fraser Government the returns on the investment outlaid will be immense. It is clear that the Fraser Government recognises this, but as with the recently announced import parity price for crude oil it has only a hazy idea of how it will increase the returns to the Australian people. The  Deputy Prime Minister talks vaguely- as he did in the crude oil announcement- about initiating discussions with the industry on a possible framework for a secondary or resource based tax on future earnings from uranium development. I should make it clear that the concept of a secondary profits related resource tax to be levied on companies making windfall profits originated with the Australian Labor Party and it is part of our national platform on minerals and energy. The only difference between this tax and the tax proposed by the Labor Party is that we will not shirk our responsibility in imposing it. Talk is not enough. 
One of the most extraordinary features of the statement by the  Deputy  Prime Minister is his attempt to justify the Government's announced uranium policy in terms of a national energy policy as recommended by the Fox report. The Government has not got a national energy policy. 
Do not worry. You will not be back, so speak up. The only way the Government could have an energy policy is through government supervision and control of the major energy producing industries in Australia. While all other major producing countries in the world have policies to this end, the Fraser Government ensures that Australia is the odd man out. We have only to look at the present ad hoc decisions on energy culminating in the uranium decision today to see that the Government has no comprehensive policy. We had the crude oil price rise in the Budget without any requirement that the additional funds should be spent on new exploration for oil; the North West Shelf gas decision with only marginal reference to Australia's long term energy needs; and now the uranium decision. The Minister claims he is preparing a statement on Australia's energy policy but it seems extraordinary, to say the least, that these recent major decisions can be taken in isolation. 
As uranium will be only a bridge between fossil fuels and new technologies, such as fusion power and solar power, it will be necessary for substantial funding in the coming years for research into new energy areas. It is not good enough to wait for funds, as the Minister suggests, until resources flow from uranium development. Funds must be made available now, and they can be made available by a properly imposed resource tax on the excess profit situation arising from the crude oil policy or the export of coking coal, for research and development into alternative energy sources, in particular solar power. All that can be said about the Government's uranium policy, if one can disregard the fact that it is premature, is that at least the Government has had the decency to adopt a number of the proposals as outlined in the Ranger Inquiry. 
We can only take the Government's statement at face value. At least it has accepted all of the Ranger recommendations on Aboriginals such as the granting of title to traditional Aboriginal lands in the Alligator Rivers Region including the Ranger and Koongarra mining areas. The Government has said that it is prepared to pursue the proposals laid down by the Ranger Inquiry to deal with the impact of mining development upon Aboriginal society. In respect of the Ranger project, the Government says it has accepted all of the Ranger recommendations relating to environmental controls and development. The Government also has indicated in respect of the development of other mining in the Alligator Rivers Region that future developments will take place only when the projects were in harmony with the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 and when the Government is satisfied that the impact of such developments will not be detrimental to the Aboriginal people or the region. 
The Government has also made a firm commitment to extend the national park in the Alligator Rivers Region, though the Government has opted for a policy of gradually increasing the declared area of the park rather than declaring the full park boundaries now. It is to be hoped that these commitments are what they appear to be and that the Government will stand behind them. In conclusion, in what was otherwise a dismal picture of expediency, these measures would appear to be the only bright spots. 
-Recent express decisions by the Government have callously disregarded the welfare of rural people and rural producers. In a number of ways the Government has changed policies, and this will have a damaging impact on an already languishing rural sector. I refer to the 11c a gallon increase in the price of fuel, which will hit all country people but particularly those with high fuel inputs into agricultural production; the detrimental impact of the Budget measures on the rural tax averaging system; and the 3.5 per cent increase in company tax- to mention just a few of them. As well, the Government now is going out of its way by introducing a measure that will foist expensive Broken Hill South Ltd Queensland rock phosphate on Australia's rural community. The Government could not have gone more out of its way in order to damage country interests than it has. The farmers in the Government have cynically sold out their rural counterparts. 
Let me examine first the increase in the price of crude oil. This represents a $150m handout to the Australian oil producing industry. Like Broken Hill South Ltd, with its phosphate, EssoBHP is well looked after with increased oil profits. On top of its existing profitability, EssoBHP will have a windfall increment to its profits in the order of $ 109m in a full year. The Barrow Island producers will receive about $43m and the Moonie-Alton producers will receive about $2.3m. A large part of these profits will be the direct result of higher prices paid by consumers in rural areas. Again the National Country Party has shown its preoccupation with looking after the oil and mining industries to the exclusion of the people it claims to represent- the farming community and the people who live in rural Australia. 
The decision by the Government to increase the price of crude oil does not come as part of a total energy package to promote a more rational use of resources; nor does it come in the presence of a secondary taxing structure, as recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission. The new pricing policy contravenes both the letter and the spirit of the IAC report on crude oil pricing. Perhaps I should read directly from page 3 of that report. The bottom paragraph reads: 
However, the emergence of very large additional profits from crude oil production will require the Government to consider the adequacy of existing royalty arrangements, which were negotiated before the recent rapid increase in the world price of oil. 
The Australian taxpayer and consumer is entitled to more than a promise of a resource tax to syphon off the excess profits of Esso-BHP and other producers. Even after company tax is ap- 1)lied to these new revenues, a net windfall of at east $80m will accrue to the various producers. Yet in the statement of the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  there was not one solitary commitment to the effect that the companies would step up their exploration activities in return for the receipt of these moneys. It was an absolutely no-strings-attached gift. How can the price elasticity argument for a more rational use of resources possibly apply if no thought is given to alternative fuels or alternative methods of transport? 
This kind of measure cannot be supported when it is introduced in such isolation. While over time an increase in oil prices to world parity should encourage a more rational use of this scarce resource, that is unlikely to happen if there is no complementary planning in terms of the availability of alternative fuels. The clear losers in this charade are the Australian consumers, the motorists, the rural townspeople and the farmers. The Government has paid no heed to the detrimental impact of this decision on inflation, and the continuing inflation rate of around 10 per cent is likely to be aggravated by this factor. Persistent inflation has added greatly to farming costs, so much so that rural incomes have declined by 40 per cent in the last 3 years. Even official government statistics indicate that the expectations for inflation over the next 12 months are such that inflation will remain at the present high level thus cutting the heart out of any real increase in the earnings or living standards of Australia's rural community. One wonders how the National Country Party can have the gall to describe itself as a party representing country interests when its record in government has been so poor. For example, let us consider the Government's recent tax changes as they apply to income averaging for farmers. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  made it clear recently when he said:  i 
The tax under the averaging provisions applicable between $3,75 1 and $16,000 will be calculated at the standard rate of 32 percent. 
In other words it will be 32c in the dollar. Previously a farmer could earn over $17,000 in a year before his income attracted 32c in the dollar tax, and even then averaging applied only to $16,000. Under the new taxation arrangements an average rate of taxation of 32c in the dollar is reached just above $22,000. This has spelt the death knell for the taxation averaging system. The Government again is breaking a commitment to farmers. The decision relating to normal company tax affects farmers dramatically. Company tax has been increased from 42.5c in the dollar to 46c in the dollar. Some say that this is a 3 per cent increase but a 3c increase on 42.5c is in fact an 814 per cent increase. A lot of farmers enjoy the benefits of incorporation. They do not transact their business as individuals because they are protected in some respects by incorporation. They will be penalised severely by this rapid increase in company taxation. 
In two specific measures unrelated to the oil pricing policy the Government increased the excise on diesel fuel and petrol- that is, the normal excise or taxation arrangements which the Commonwealth uses on an indirect basis to increase its revenue- by a quarter of lc per litre on diesel fuel and by one-eighth of lc per litre in the case of petrol. This is over 1.5c per gallon on these commodities. It will have an effect on the price of commodities going to people living in the country and will mean an increased fuel input in the cost of production. Because costs have been so crippling in the last few years with inflation remaining the way it has, it is the cost inputs in agricultural production which have reduced real farm income so dramatically. So we have seen the crude oil price decision- a handout to Esso-BHP- and an increase in excise both unrelated to any broad energy policy. 
There has been an increase in company tax from 42.5 per cent to 46 per cent at a time when the Government is trying to encourage investment :.n manufacturing and more activity in rural Australia. Yet the Government is pulling the rug from under its tax averaging arrangements for farmers which it so proudly introduced the year before. This is the shabby record of the Liberal and National Country parties in government. So much for their criticism of the former Labor Government's valiant attempts to change the face of rural Australia and to do positive things about the major commodities such as wool, dairy products and wheat by the various measures which were enacted during its period of office. This Government has failed dismally to do anything for the rural community. The Minister for Primary Industry says that we are joking but he is a Minister who says anything anywhere. He is all things to all men. If he is talking to the peanut farmers in Kingaroy he will tell them one story and if he is talking to the woolgrowers in Goulburn he will tell them a different story. In fact, he sits in on Cabinet discussions. He is one of the senior Ministers of the Cabinet. He is the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party of Australia, the junior coalition partner. He was party to the dismantling of the tax averaging scheme but was not able to give a satisfactory explanation when quizzed about the matter by the Opposition a couple of days after the Budget was introduced. 
The point is this: A major element of these increases is the price of fuel. That is a home town decision for Australian producers. It is out of context when compared with the kinds of provisions entered into by the Industries Assistance Commission. It is a decision unrelated to the cost of production. It is an increment to profits over an already highly established profit level. In fact, the profits from the Bass Strait field subsidise the whole of the operations of the Broken Hill Pty group. I ask honourable members to read of the handsome returns for the Esso company. There can be no clear case, particularly without a commitment on behalf of the companies to the Government that they will spend these additional funds on exploration. There is not one solitary commitment that a dollar of this extra revenue will go to exploration. Instead of introducing this decision as it is, perhaps the Government- seeing that it has had a year to consider the LAC report- could have introduced the matter in the presence of a secondary taxing structure. While the company tax system takes some of the increase back, it leaves those producers with $80m a year. There is no additional cost. It is just an additional profit because the cost of production is covered by the $2.33 a barrel which the producers are presently being paid. Of course, this increase in price will increase over time. The amounts of crude oil production which will apply at import parity will grow over time in accordance with the Government's policy. It is now incumbent on the Government to make sure that there is a taxing system which takes the benefits back to the people so that people in rural Australia and all Australian consumers can get some benefit from these windfall gains which will go to these huge companies which the Country Party insists on looking after. 
I conclude on this point: After a lot of promises in opposition, after a lot of huffing and puffing, finally we have seen virtually nothing from the Government in terms of rural legislation which will assist rural Australia. In fact, there have been detrimental measures which have added significantly to the cost of production and which will reduce real farm incomes. The Government, with 11 farmers in the Cabinet, has let down rural producers dramatically and has sold out the people it claims to represent. 
I refer to the proceedings in the House earlier today when the former Attorney-General, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  was forced to resign his position. What we have seen is a shameful exercise in Cabinet democracy and practice and a shameful day for the Parliament of Australia. It is in my view the first sign of the disintegration of the Fraser Cabinet. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the man who talked about Cabinet solidarity and loyalty, has been the first man to ignore the Cabinet system and destroy a Minister himself. If the Cabinet had met on this matter of the Sankey case, if the decision had been made, had there been an announcement, then the Attorney-General could have made up his own mind and made a decision about where he stood. Instead of that the Prime Minister deliberately set out to destroy the honourable member for Wentworth in the typical Fraser fashion in the same way as he destroyed former Prime Minister Gorton, and other Ministers before him. He pushed the AttorneyGeneral out naked in the public and knifed him in the process. 
Let us remember what the honourable member for Wentworth said today in the House. He referred to an article in the  Canberra Times  which, in part, stated: 
Government sources emphasised yesterday that the decision not to intervene did not imply any approval for the continuance of the prosecutions by  Mr Sankey.  The Government's view, they said, was that the electorate had passed its judgment on the overseas loans affair at the 1975 elections and that the matter should stop. This was why the Government had refused a prosecution application . . . A decision to intervene and then discontinue the prosecutions had been 'muddied' by  Mr Justice  Murphy's firm opposition . . . 
The honourable member for Wentworth said: 
I was deeply troubled about the Government's sources. It seemed to me that if that was accurate, that is to say if it had come from Government sources, it was indicating something about the discretion which I had to exercise; it was indicating, in effect, that a decision had been made that these proceedings should be taken over and terminated. But that was a decision which only I, as Attorney-General, could make. I regret to say that  Mr Dickie,  my Press officer, has given me the following statement: 
The day after the publication of the story by  Mr Waterford Mr David  Barnet telephoned me. He told me that  Mr Waterford  had approached him the day before about the Sankey story. He said  Mr Waterford  seemed to have all the facts associated with the Sankey story and that all that seemed to be missing was the motivation.  Mr Barnett  said that he supplied  Mr Waterford  with the motivation. 
It is clear that the Attorney-General believed that the Prime Minister's lackey, his Press Secretary who is now in the House, acted on the Prime Minister's behalf and publicly corroborated a story to a journalist which exposed his defeat in Cabinet, left him without a feather to fly with and ultimately forced his resignation. Tonight we see an expose, a letter released by  Mr David  Barnett obviously on behalf of himself and the Prime Minister and probably drafted by both of them if the truth be known. In the third paragraph it stated: 
Since this was incorrect, I asked for, and received authority to guide  Mr Waterford. 
From whom would he seek authority and receive it but his boss? It went on to say: 
I did so on this one matter only, his misapprehension about the role of the Prime Minister. I told him it was the Prime Minister's view that these matters should not be prosecuted and that they were resolved in the elections of 1975. 
In other words, he confirmed all the rumours and suspicions which the journalist had picked up and verified at the Prime Minister's behest. We did not hear the Prime Minister deny today what the former Attorney-General had said. We did not see a statement from the Prime Minister denying the fact that  Mr Barnett  had approached him and that he told  Mr Barnett  to corroborate the story. We did not get any denial from the Prime Minister that he destroyed his own Minister. We had the old story of the Prime Minister hiding behind his staff and hiding behind journalists in the same way as he did when he tried to destroy Peacock and Gorton. He has now destroyed the Attorney-General of his own Government and has put his whole Cabinet system at risk. 
Those are the facts. Tonight we hear that  Senator Cotton  and  Senator Carrick  are making moves to be rid of  Mr Barnett  from the staff. Well they should. While he remains he is a danger with the Prime Minister as his accomplice in this kind of motivation. Why did the Prime Minister back  Mr Barnett?  Why did he give him a clear instruction to corroborate the story to destroy Ellicott? We do not know. Probably  Mr Barnett  has too much on the Prime Minister for the Prime Minister to let him down. Every Minister should be aware that he is now at risk under this process. The Prime Minister has corroborated stories and leaks indicating that the Cabinet had let the Attorney-General down. The AttorneyGeneral has been left with a decision made by Cabinet and corroborated by the Prime Minister without a feather to fly with. He felt compelled to resign. There is not the slightest loyalty or cohesion in the Fraser Cabinet. It is obviously a dog eat dog brigade with the famous hound dog, Barnett, doing  Mr Fraser  's dirty work for him. He has done it to you,  Mr Speaker.  He has done it to Gorton. He has done it to others. Now he has done it to the Attorney-General. 
-The Opposition has chosen this matter of public importance today because of the absolute confusion and inconsistency on the part of the Government in relation to income tax matters. In recent times the averaging provisions for rural producers have been a cause of great confusion, and this has been more especially so in very recent times in regard to the resource tax on the extractive industries. The point is that while the Government trails its coat and dithers on these matters, there is no resolution in industry. It is left confused and uncertain and, of course, that is not conducive to investment. We have had the spectacle already of the Uranium Producers Forum communicating with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  today, and saying that there will be no development of Australia 's uranium resources unless all semblances of the tax are lifted. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  mentioned in the Budget the concept of a secondary tax on the mining and petroleum industries. The Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  mentioned in the Parliament the need for a tax but he said that such a tax would be imposed only on the oil and uranium industries and on no others. 
So there is in the extractive industries at the moment absolute confusion as to what the Government intends to do. It is beyond me that the Government cannot understand that it just cannot announce these kinds of measures, dangle the threat of a tax in front of the eyes of industry and go away believing that industry will carry on in the face of these imposts. Of course, everything grinds to a halt until these things are resolved. The point is that they should have been resolved a long time ago. Mention should not have been made of them. The Government should have made a decision whether or not to impose a tax. To add insult to injury and to add more confusion to the picture, the Queensland Premier related in the Queensland Parliament last week a conversation he had with the Prime Minister. I might just recount it. In answer to a question he said: 
I am not in a position to announce anything for Canberra or my Canberra colleagues-whether it be the Prime Minister or  Mr Anthony.  I spoke last night on the phone to the Prime Minister when he rang me and one of the things I mentioned to him was my concern at the fact that an attempt may be made to impose this tax. I have an understanding, if I may put it that way, from the Prime Minister, that there is no intention to impose a resource tax in any way. 
The Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Burns,  interjected: 'Not at all?' The Premier replied: 'Not at all '. So who is telling the lies? Who in fact speaks on behalf of the Government in this matter? The Prime Minister apparently says that a tax will not be imposed; the Leader of the National Country Party says that a tax will be imposed only on oil and uranium; the Treasurer is not sure, as usual, what tax applies at present or what the level should be. No rates are fixed; no tax is designed. There is this constant chopping and changing; constant indecision and inconsistency. No wonder there has been no increase in the rate of investment in these massive industries. 
So what we have in the face of obvious Government procrastination and weakness is an industry gearing up for a massive propaganda exercise to try to crush the concept of a secondary profits-related tax. We on this side of the House, of course, support the concept of a secondary profits-related tax. At the latest National Conference of the Australian Labor Party held in Perth this year, amongst other things we said: 
Labor will establish a clear and equitable taxation regime to ensure a proper increment to the national wealth and provide the mining industry and Australian Government with a consistent base for long term planning in the industry. 
Specifically, Labor will investigate the concept of a secondary profits-related tax on the rnining and petroleum industries to deal with extraordinary profit situations. It is envisaged that such a tax would, amongst other things, operate in place of the Coal Export Duty Levy. 
In other words, it is to be a tax on excess profits. My party is committed firmly to it. However, we said that we would investigate the concept. We did not say that we would impose the tax forthwith. We realise that a tax on the mining industry should be imposed on the totality of the mining industry- not just on uranium and oil, but across the whole range of mineral production in this country. Such a tax will need careful consideration and design so that it can be imposed and its objectives achieved. This is why the Labor Party believes that there should be a further increment to the national wealth in the form of such a tax. 
This tax would provide certainty for the industries themselves. For the high fliers and those companies which have extraordinary profit levels the tax would be a positive and sure way of giving an increment to the national wealth without the imposition of indiscriminate excises which on occasions have been imposed as revenue raisers in the heat of Budget discussions. These excises affect investments. They do not discriminate with regard to profitability. They are regressive in nature. It is far better to have consistency in the company tax base and a predictable secondary taxing structure. Government supporters say: 'Why discriminate against mining? Why discriminate against that area of Australian enterprise which is efficient?' The point simply is that for many years the Parliament has discriminated in favour of mining. The report of the Industries Assistance Commission on mining taxation, which was introduced a year ago, indicates that in the six years to 1973-74 the mining industry paid $400m in income tax. However, that was because of the special concessions. If the same companies had been operating on the basis on which manufacturing companies and other companies in Australia operate the tax would have been $ 1,000m. There was a $600m saving by the mining industry on that occasion. There needs to be a taxing system to secure an adequate return to the Australian people. 
The other reason why there should be a tax on mining as distinct from other industries is that other industries are not given a national asset. Mining companies are given a national asset to mine and exploit to their advantage. The asset is the property of the people of the Commonwealth. The lease gives companies the right to work the asset. Because the Government or the nation gives companies an asset to mine there should be an increment to the national wealth if those companies are successful. A resource tax, a secondary profits-related tax, can apply only if profits are made. 
Somebody said that a secondary profits tax should not be imposed on the North West Shelf project. The North West Shelf producers are saying that their investment will produce a fairly modest rate of return, given the present pricing structure and the costs of infrastructure for that project. That may be the case; but, if that rate of return improves, if market prices change as was the case with the Esso-BHP investment in Bass Strait and the North West Shelf project is very profitable in the future, the producers ought to be apprised now of the fact that they will come within the ambit of such a tax. I said so in my statement on the North West Shelf project in reply to the Minister for National Resources last week. The Government should say so. It is a perfectly proper thing to do. 
I am not the only person who holds that view; nor are members of my party.  Mr L.  T. Froggart, the  Chairman  and Chief Executive Officer of the Shell group of companies in Australia, urged such a system a year ago. He said: 
Governments are worried about the possibility of 'windfall profits' and have full powers to control the level of profitability by means of taxation. 
One has only to look at Britain's Petroleum Revenue tax, which incidentally was introduced after full consultation with industry, to see how flexible such measures can be and how they can reconcile the legitimate interests of the oil company, the Government and the consumer. 
This gentleman apparently believes that there is a case for such a tax to guarantee certainty of investment for long term, high risk, high value investments. It there is to be such a system of taxation it would be much better if the rates were agreed. 
A couple of weeks ago the Government made an administrative decision at Cabinet level to increase the price paid to producers of crude oil in Australia. In the case of Bass Strait producers that meant an increase of $ 109m in profit. For the other oil companies in Australia the increase was about $41m. In total, the increase in profit amounted to about $150m. The IAC made it clear in its recommendation for an increase in the price of oil that there should be a secondary taxing structure. It said: 
Hovever, the emergence of very large additional profits from crude oil production will require the Government to consider the adequacy of existing royalty arrangements, which were negotiated before the recent rapid increase in the world price of oil. 
But the Government gave away the increases without any secondary taxing structure at all. Obviously there needs to be a tax designed to accommodate this situation. There needs to be a tax designed to accommodate the situation in the future with uranium if the Government has its wilful way and those developments go ahead. 
Such a tax should apply also to those companies which are successful in the coking coal area. It should apply also to iron ore miners if they happen to be successful. At the moment the Government is attempting to dodge any tax on the coal industry, particularly on the Utah company in Queensland. The Government did a very silly thing when it came into office. It was silly in the public interest; it was not silly in the Government's interest because, obviously, it had outstanding commitments to this company to reduce the coal export duty levy. 
The honourable member should go back into his hole. I refer to the Utah situation in 1975 - 
-It is interesting to look at Utah's financial report. In 1975 the company made $ 100.9m when the coal export duty levy was only $10.8m. In 1976, despite an increase in the coal export duty levy from $ 10.8m to $75.9m, the company still increased its profit from $ 1 00m to $ 1 36.9m; in other words, a rise of 35.6 per cent in its net after tax profit although it had paid out an extra $65m in tax under the coal export duty levy. Therefore, nobody could say that the imposition of such a tax was an inhibitor to its growing profitability or viability. Obviously, this company in particular can afford to pay, and pay well. 
Yet the Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister are trying to dodge any commitment to a secondary tax on the coal industry. Obviously, there should be a clear secondary taxing structure designed to include all the extractive industries which are high profit takers and are able to contribute something back to the Australian Government. I believe that the Prime Minister told the Treasury today that he wants the proposals finished within three weeks. If that is the case I do not know what kind of a hotchpotch we will get. The incremental rate of tax should be assessed on profitability. The tax then would discriminate with respect to profitability and capacity to pay. We hope that it is not a 2c in the dollar or 3c in the dollar job but something that gives the people a real increment for the rnining of national assets. 
With regard to tax averaging for farmers, it was only because the Opposition raised this matter in the Parliament and exploited the fact that there were deficiencies in the Government's proposals that the Government now has seen fit to reconsider its proposals as they affect tax averaging for farmers. We on this side of the House submit that tax averaging provisions should apply to more people than just farmers. They should apply to storekeepers and other people who have sinusoidal fluctuations of income, who are taxed heavily in one year and not taxed the next year, who because they lose the averaging provisions are taxed and penalised relative to farmers. We believe that consideration should be given to this matter. 
As well the provisions which will now become available will mean that farmers on incomes below $16,000 will receive very little from the tax, and beef producers who are experiencing negative income and who are not paying any tax will get nothing from it. As usual the wealthy areas of the grazing and farming industries will get the best out of it, just as Utah Development Company has got the best out of the lifting of the coal export levy. As usual, the Government is looking after wealthy people. So clearly there is confusion in this Government as to the equity and justice of taxation measures and also confusion about when things will be applied and how they will apply. The Parliament has a right to know that national resources particularly will secure an incremental income for the national purse and that there will be a proper tax designed and applied to these industries. 
Adequate notice should be given to these industries of the kind of tax, and adequate discussion should take place in the Parliament about the tax, instead of the Government practising sleight of hand and imposing a tax which applies only to the oil industry in Bass Strait and some potential industry in uranium. These are clear reasons why there should be a tax, uniform in its application to the mining industries which discriminates particularly against miners with respect to moneys which they can pay to the national purse. It should be levied on all elements of the extractive industries and the test should be the capacity to pay and not the whim or caprice of the Government or the Treasurer. 
I desire to ask a question of the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that yesterday the Australian Uranium Producers' Forum took the cheque book around to Liberal Party Secretary, Tony Eggleton, in an effort to pressure the Government - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, when in government the Australian Labor Party constantly drew attention to and endeavoured to do something about the increasing level of foreign investment in Australia's coal resources. We said then and repeat now that, while there is a role for foreign investment, we should do all that we can to ensure that Australians control and own their own coal which, next to petroleum, is the world's most important energy source. There is little doubt that coal will be the energy bridge between petroleum and the alternative technologies at the end of this century. As Kenneth Davidson of the  Age  rightly pointed out this morning, governments and energy planners overseas are turning to more coal-fired power stations and downgrading the role of uranium. He pointed out that the Uranium Producers Forum has claimed that the exports of uranium oxide will reach $ 1 , 200m a year in the 1 990s, but he said that coal exports totalled $ 1,300m in 1976-77 and, on the basis of the Joint Coal Board's projections, the value of coal exports could be in the order of $3,000m a year by the year 2000. He wrote: 
And yet there seems to be no thought given to how this development can be organised so that the interests of Australia can be maximised. 
While Australians divide bitterly over the pros and cons of uranium mining, the overseas giants are quietly increasing their investment in Australian coal. 
They have recognised its potential, even if Australians have not 
These are very prescient words by  Mr Davidson,  but it must be pointed out that the Labor Party has been stating the same points for years. Particularly during the Connor years, the Labor Government was castigated by the Australian Press and the mining industry for its policies based on the belief that coal was probably the most valuable energy resource that Australia possessed. Now the doubters have become the converted, but the grip on Australia's coal resources by foreign companies has increased to such an extent in the past 18 months that urgent action is required if the trend is to be halted, if not reversed. 
We said in government, and it is even more pertinent now, that Australia from now untilthe end of the century will not be riding on the sheep's back but in the back of the coal truck. We said in government, and it is even truer today, that oil companies were rapidly becoming energy companies as they diversified into all manner of energy resources to hedge against the day when petroleum begins to fall as a total percentage of the world's energy requirements. It must be said that in view of the value of coal in the world today all manner of companies are getting in for their cut and carving up Australia's coal resources to form the basis of their corporate empires in the next 30 years. 
Let us look at the acquisition of Australian reserves in recent times- in fact, since the return to power of the Liberal and National Country parties in Canberra. The following is a selection, and probably not an exhaustive one, of recent takeovers and acquisitions of Australian coal interests by foreign companies. In New South Wales British Petroleum Australia Ltd has acquired 50 per cent of Clutha Development Pty Ltd. The Shell Co. of Australia Ltd has purchased 37 per cent of the shares of Austen and Butta Pty Ltd. This investment was frozen for 90 days by the Foreign Investment Review Board and was released only recently. Warkworth Mining Pty Ltd has acquired a coal lease in the Singleton area. The company's shareholders are: Costain Aust. Ltd, 30 per cent; H. C. Sleigh Ltd, 45 per cent; Mitsubishi Development Pty Ltd, 15 per cent; and the Australian Resource Development Bank Ltd, 10 per cent The Australian subsidiary of the Canadian Placer group has acquired 50 per cent of the Oakbridge Ltd mine at Walgan in the Lithgow region. A letter of intent has been signed by Hartogen Explorations Pty Ltd with die two French companies- Le Nichel (Australia) Exploration Pty Ltd and Charbonnages de France-to take up a 50 per cent interest in the Wambo coal mine. Conzinc Riotinto of Australia has acquired 13 per cent of Coal and Allied Industries Ltd. It is now attempting to buy another 42 per cent of the capital of this company, but the Foreign Investment Review Board has that takeover under investigation. 
In Queensland the State Government recently granted Capricorn Coal Developments a coal lease in the German Creek area of the Bowen Basin. The company's shareholders are: Intercontinental Fuels Ltd, a European company, 26.6 per cent; Commercial Union (United Kingdom), 26.6 per cent; the National Coal Board of the United Kingdom, 20 per cent; and Austen and Butta, 26.6 per cent. We are even leting a British Government institution into our coal reserves. Shell has acquired 16.5 per cent of Theiss Holdings Ltd which owns the South Blackwater coal mine and is a partner in Theiss Dampier Mitsui which also owns leases at Moura, Kianga and Nebo. This was frozen by the Foreign Investment Review Board. As we know, nothing will come of it. 
Houston Oil and Minerals of the United States-80 per cent-and R. W. Miller (Holdings) 20 per cent- have received prospecting rights from the Queensland Government for the Oaky Creek coal field. Esso has acquired 25 per cent of the Hail Creek joint venture. This leaves Australian Associated Resources with 60 per cent and I.O.L. Petroleum- a CRA subsidiarywith 15 per cent. These acquisitions are a damning indictment of this Government's ideological prejudices and deliberate irresponsible shortsightedness in the field of energy resource development in this country. 
All we have had from this Government is ad hocery- a piecemeal of resource projects that might, and probably will not, get off the ground, with no attempt to place them in the context of an overall energy policy or, indeed, an overall minerals policy. According to the Government, an overall energy policy is something that is still in the process of being formulated. In the United States, within a couple of months of President Carter's inauguration, his administration produced a comprehensive energy policy for a country that in wealth, industry and population far outstrips Australia in its complexities. Yet from the Fraser Government, after almost two years we have had only a promise of an energy policy, only a promise of a minerals policy. 
The fact of the matter is that a proper energy and minerals policy would means that die Government would have to sit down and negotiatenot just talk- with powerful foreign and national industry groups. The complete confusion of the proposed resources tax indicates just how incompetent the Fraser-Anthony Government is in the area of resource negotiation on behalf of the Australian people. At present the Queensland coal industry is more than 80 per cent foreign owned. Can any honourable member imagine the laissez-faire politician,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  and the intimidated FraserAnthony coalition sitting down and taking on Utah- the company in which Australia's equity is only 1 1 per cent and which thinks it can hide its massive profits under token gifts to the Australian Opera of, I think, around a quarter of a million dollars. 
The first and obvious consequence of these facts of government idleness and foreign company domination is that at a time when an energy hungry world is in a position to listen to Australia and Australia is in a position to be taken seriously in the world's councils, we do not even control the resources necessary to achieve this end. But that is not all. We also are not in a position to oversee the proper development of our energy resources, not only to protect Australia from the energy crisis, but also to see that our major trading partners are given as much assistance as is commensurate with Australia's domestic requirements. 
At present, because of the foreign domination of the industry, decisions on the development of Australia's coal are being made not in Australia but in the board rooms of London, New York and Tokyo. What other country in the world would so readily give away such a national asset as at least 300 years reserves of coal without any strings attached? There is no doubt that further exploration will increase the size of these reserves. It has been calculated by experts that, with the development of technology, particularly of in situ mining, in situ fuel coal reserves in the Galilee Basin in Queensland alone, based on the extrapolation of data from ore bores in the same area, will total more than the Sydney and Bowen basins combined. Their magnitude is such that they form a virtually limitless source of fuel if demand should become sufficient to encourage the development of in situ synthetic fuel production. 
It is vital that these areas do not fall under total foreign domination and that foreign interests in these areas and other coal producing areas are required to spend money on research and development technology, such as in situ mining, as part of the agreement to allow them to mine Austraiian coal. The Federal Opposition believes that conditions must be imposed on coal leases to prevent over-development of coal in Australia which would result in lower prices, and to ensure that research and development is undertaken as well. State chauvinism and neglect by the Fraser-Anthony Government is largely reponsible for the situation in the coal industry today. 
There are two important aspects related to the whole question of resource development with which I want to deal. Firstly, I want to lay at rest the view that Australia can progress only with a high level of direct foreign investment. Whilst in the past it has certainly been the catalyst for development, Australia is now experiencing a situation in which profits and dividends payable abroad by companies in Australia represent just over half of the total after-tax company income. Let me refer briefly to a table prepared by the economic analysts SYNTEC.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate this table in  Hansard. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197709154_18_0.jpg"></graphic>

This table shows that income payable overseas as a percentage of company income grew from 23.2 per cent in 1966-67 to 55.2 per cent in 1975-76. The apologists for massive foreign investment argue that, with the adequate plough-back of earnings by foreigners this trend will not exacerbate the problems of the current account and the balance of payments with repartiated dividends becoming a growing proportion of the invisibles. But it is precisely because of the plough-back of the profits and the dividends normally payable abroad that were made in the late 1960s and early 1970s that we now have a situation in which dividends are so massive. With the world economic downturn and Japanese steel production static, dividends were not re-invested in new productive plant but were just left to accrue. This is evidenced also in a SYNTEC table which demonstrates that net private investment funded by overseas investment in Australian companies fell from a high of 40.3 per cent in 1970-71 to 1 1 per cent in 1975-76. 1 seek leave to incorporate this table in  Hansard  also,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197709154_18_1.jpg"></graphic>

What we have seen occurring over a period of time is a massive change in the pattern of investment and the nature of repatriated dividends. The real problem for Australia is the inadequacy of the Australian capital market. Australian companies of good standing and with good prospects cannot get enough debt capital backing to match their equity interest. The Australian stock exchanges have virtually dried up as a source of capital, particularly large amounts of capital. Banks and institutions in Australia will lend only against assets and not against the potential cash flow of sound investments backed by firm contracts. 
The monopoly in banking given to Australia's handful of private and public banks has produced the most conservative banking community in the world. Entrepreneurial banking is foreign to these institutions. They will play no ambitious or adventuresome role in the development of this young nation's massive mineral endowment. Australian companies have to sell off their equity to foreign corporations to get adequate capital to develop these projects. This is how many of the companies to which I have referred earlier in my speech have been able to secure such large blocks of equity in valuable coal projects. One wonders what the answer to this problem is. Perhaps it is the opening up of the banking licences in Australia to world banking competition so that some of the smug executives in Australian banks will have to get out and compete instead of having their business given to them on a plate by the provisions of the Banking Act. There is just no point in the Government talking about minimum Australian equity requirements when it knows damn well that these hopeless institutions in Australia stand in the way of a growing level of Australian corporate ownership. 
In conclusion, the Federal Government has a bureaucratic mechanism for the control of the inflow of foreign capital into Australian resource industries, that is, the Foreign Investment Review Board. There are in the Treasurer's statement on foreign investment of 1 April 1976 foreign investment criteria to be applied by the Board on receiving any foreign takeover proposal. These criteria are comprehensive but, as the role of the Board is only to advise the Cabinet, the Government can veto any takeover by a foreign company. 
The Fraser Government must inform the Parliament and the people of its attitude towards the increasing foreign domination of the Australian coal industry. It is simply not good enough to say that the Foreign Investment Review Board thinks that a particular takeover is a good thing in the national interest or otherwise. The Government must state its position on the issue of foreign interest in coal. It must clearly lay down separate guidelines for the coal industry to see that Australians ultimately have a major equity in this industry and are in control of it. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
Were representations from Japanese sources received by the Department of Overseas Trade late in 1975 that certain moneys were paid by a Japanese company to a member of the Foreign Investment Division of the Treasurer in respect of a foreign investment proposal. 
If so, did the Department pass this representation on to the Treasury's Foreign Investment Division of any other Treasury officer. 
Were any investigations in respect of this complaint undertaken by the Department of Overseas Trade. 
If so, what were the results of those investigations. 
If no investigations were undertaken, what was the reason. 
Did the Department of Overseas Trade advise the Government of the representation referred to in pan ( 1 ) and the outcome of any investigations undertaken. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
Did the Treasury receive late in 1975 a copy of representations sent to the Department of Overseas Trade by Japanese sources alleging that certain moneys were paid by a Japanese company to a member of the Foreign Investment Division of the Treasury in respect of a foreign investment proposal. 
If so, which officer in the Treasury received the copy of the representation. 
Did the Treasury investigate the allegations; if so, what were the results. 
If Treasury did not then and has not since undertaken any investigations into this matter, what is the reason. 
asked the Treasurer upon notice, on 24 August 1977: 
What is the policy of the Foreign Investment Division of the Department of the Treasury towards the presentation of gifts to the Division by foreign and national companies. 
asked the Treasurer upon notice, on 24 August 1977: 
1 ) Does the Department of the Treasury have a policy in relation to its officers disclosing their pecuniary interests; if not, why not. 
If so, does the policy (a) apply to officers of the Foreign Investment Division of the Treasury and (b) ensure that its officers do not use information they acquire in an official capacity for personal gain. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Did the Australian Ambassador to the European Economic Community,  Dr J.  W. C. Cumes as reported in the  Age,  send a report to the Government stating that any attempts to sell uranium oxide in Europe before 1985 would be counterproductive? Do other reports to the Government show that the potential demand for uranium oxide in the mid-1980s in Europe- which is the earliest market- is now down 30 per cent on the levels expected when the Fox report was published last year? In view of these facts, does the Government expect the price of uranium oxide to fall heavily by the time Australian mines come into production in the early 1 980s? Will the Government now reconsider its stance on uranium and allow a proper debate and time for safeguard development against nonproliferation and waste disposal to be developed before uranium mining is allowed to proceed? 
-The report on conservation of energy in Australia is a welcome document. It is the first positive contribution by the National Energy Advisory Committee that has addressed itself to the problem of Australia's looming liquid fuel deficiency. One can only comment that the Government, having been elected for just on two years, rather than just tabling documents of this nature should in fact be giving full expression to a national fuel and energy policy. However the Advisory Committee in the report has outlined a number of proposals describing a policy for the conservation of liquid fuels in Australia and the establishment of a national publicity campaign on energy conservation. 
I point out to the House that the Australian Labor Party is the only national political party in Australia which has a comprehensive fuel and energy policy. Many of the proposals mentioned in the Advisory Committee's report are contained in similar form in the Australian Labor Party's Federal Conference Platform documents adopted at Perth last July. The Opposition sees a great urgency for the formulation of a comprehensive fuel and energy policy to overcome the problems that a dependence upon oil supplying countries may bring to Australia. The report requires study and comment at length and, of course, this should be done in the context of a parliamentary debate. 
The Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  has been kind enough to move 'that the House take note of the paper' and such a debate will ensue on another day. I seek leave of the House to continue my remarks on this debate at that time. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I rise to - 
I rise to support the terms of the matter of public importance proposed today by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and to restate the very important principle contained in it: 
The failure and refusal of the Government to provide for the disclosure of the amount and nature of assistance given by corporations and individuals to political parties and candidates. 
What is requested is a full disclosure of campaign contributions to major political parties by way of a change to the Electoral Act. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier),  quite improperly implied that when we in the Labor Party when in government did nothing about this particular issue. In fact, we made three attempts, by way of a new piece of legislation, to provide for the declaration of contributions to campaign funds for major political parties and for a limitation of election expenses so that, the whole election campaign and political process in Australia did not get out of hand, as we have seen happening in the United States of America. But of course the present Liberal-National Country Party coalition defeated that legislation in the Senate, although it passed through the House of Representatives. The Government supporters are not prepared now to disclose the source of their campaign funds in 1974 and 1975 or in a future election. 
We on this side of the House believe it is imperative, if clear honesty and integrity are to return to Australian politics, that campaign contributions should be made public so that the public know what influences bear upon the policy making functions of a political party. Take for instance the number of decisions which this Government has made in the past few months which affect just a handful of companies in such a way as to return to those companies huge amounts of money. It is reasonable for people on this side of the House and for the public to assume that these companies will make substantial contributions to the funds of the Liberal and National Country parties. 
They have previously and they will again. The investment allowance, involving $800m, was restored as soon as the Government came to office. Last week the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  came into the House with a special statement indicating that the North- West Shelf producers- that is, EssoBHP, Cal-Asiatic and BP-would be given the benefits of a two-year extension of the investment allowance. As well as that, it was stated that there would be deductability for subscriptions to mining companies, that is, that companies within those groups which wanted to subscribe moneys to companies which were subsidiaries of those companies which were exploring for oil and gas would be given deductions for those subscriptions. This means an enormous amount of money to this particular project and to those particular companies. Does any honourable member suggest that if Tony Eggleton or anyone else in the Liberal Party, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  or the Minister for National Resources, were to ring these companies and seek a contribution for campaign funds they would be refused? Of course they would not. Of course, the magnitude of these benefits are such that the funding from these companies would be massive. 
To take a more disgraceful example, let us look at the coal export duty levy. That levy was imposed by the Labor Government on coking coal produced and certain grades of steaming coal. In its first year of operation it raised $ 1 12m. If the extent of the levy had not been interfered with, this year it would have raised $160m. The levy was cynically phased out by the Government so that in the first year of the phase out, with a drop of $1.50 per ton on the $6 a ton levy, the companies concerned made a bonus of $33m. One company alone, Utah, made $ 17.5m out of that one measure in that first year and this year will make about $20m out of it. So in two years Australia's most profitable company has made $3 7m expressly as a result of a government decision. Is anyone on the opposite side of the House suggesting that that company will not respond in kind to the coffers of the LiberalNational Country Parties during an election campaign? Of course it will. When one considers that a compaign can be run on $5m or $6m, it if reasonable to assume that these companies will fund virtually the whole campaign. 
Let us take another express decision of the Government. I refer to the decision to increase the price of indigenous crude oil. As a result of that decision the consuming public will pay $150m to a handful of oil producing companies in Australia. The major one, Esso-BHP which is operating in Bass Strait, will receive $109m of the $150m. Sure, it pays tax on $109m, but the residual after tax is $53m. Are honourable members opposite suggesting that that company will not pay some of the $53m over to their party funds? Of course it will. That is why it is able to buy you any time it wants a change in policy. You are up for sale. You are up for grabs and it buys you with regularity. That is what we are complaining about; you are making decisions based on motives other than those which are expressly concerned with the national interest. You always consider your own interests. 
We have talked in this place about the resources tax. Why has the Government all of a sudden said: 'Yes, we are considering a resources tax on the oil industry and maybe the uranium industry but definitely not the coal industry'. The coal industry is the most profitable single industry in Australia. The largest number of high flying companies is to be found in the coal industry. They are the ones which have shown enormous increases in the rate of profitability. I am not talking about a modest rate of profitability on large investment funds but about huge rates of profit. The North Queensland coal producers are earning about 38 per cent interest on invested funds. They can afford to pay and pay well. The Government intends to introduce a resources tax, but you are going to exempt this industry from the tax. On what basis is the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  exempting the coal industry when they are prepared to tax the oil production industry and the future uranium industry? Clearly the reason is that the coal industry is the single most lucrative source of campaign funds for their parties. They ought to be ashamed of that situation being maintained. But worse than that is the fact that you hide it and are not prepared to make a disclosure to the public of your real interest in these matters. 
You had a hide to bring in a statement on uranium. The Fox Commission said that uranium should be developed on a sequential basis. The Commission has the good sense to know that there was no real market for uranium, that two uranium mines in Australia spewing out 3,000 tons of produce a year onto the world market would depress prices and destroy what was already a fragile market. Just today mention was made at question time about your own representative to the European Economic Community saying that the demand of the European Economic Community for uranium had fallen. Why then did you reject the proposals of the Fox Commission for the development of uranium on a sequential basis simply because you want Pancontinental to have access to Australian uranium? You want that company, which has a paid up capital of $400,000 - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I do not want to interrupt the honourable member. This is not an easy matter to debate, but I think it would be wise if the honourable gentleman addressed the Chair rather than saying: 'You do this and you do that'. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, you were engaged in a conversation practically thoughout the length of the debate. Rather than disturb you I addressed my remarks to honourable members opposite. 
Why did the Government not embark upon a policy of sequential development? Obviously Pancontinental is to be given access to the loot. Is anybody suggesting that now that that company is not playing politics with the Government, it is not down in Canberra all the time working out the political strategy? It is no longer involved in industry; it is tied up with the political future of the Government and, of course, will pay heavily to Government funds. It has made no bones about it. 
Just last week a photograph of  Mr Eggleton  appeared on the front page of the  Australian Financial Review.  The ensuing article was headed: 'Uranium Producers Offer to the Government: Another Resource Tax Lobby Push'.  Mr Mackay,  the  Chairman  of the Uranium Producers Forum, had the gall to suggest to a journalist at lunch at The Lobby opposite this House that he was going to meet the Secretary of the Liberal Party to see in what way his organisation could offer the Liberal Party and the National Country Party assistance during an election campaign. What kind of assistance do honourable members think that organisation will give them? Will it be badges or stickers? It will give them money. It will give them the wherewithal to fight a political campaign in Australia. But Government supporters chide us on this side of the House by saying that the unions make contributions to our campaign funds. Yes, they do, but such contributions are generally made public on television. The Amalgamated Metal Workers Union made its contribution on television. Honourable members opposite can inspect the balance sheet of that union to see the contributions that are made. But try to inspect the books of Utah or Esso or any of the other companies; no mention will be made of campaign contributions. They will all be buried under current expenses. The parties opposite should make a clear declaration in relation to their sources of funds. 
-After weeks and weeks of build-up, meetings with the Cattlemen's Union of Australia and subsequently the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council, the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation and the Australian National Cattlemen's Council, the Government has managed to devise a higgeldy-piggeldy program in an attempt to assist the Australian beef industry and to take the heat off itself. The greater part of the statement which the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has just made represents a series of statements which have very little to do with the particular problems confronting the beef industry. It is a valiant and desperate attempt by the Minister for Primary Industry to justify this Government's generally abysmal record for its traditional supporters. It lists a series of items, some of which are involved with primary industry but many of which are peripheral to the interests of the beef industry. 
The Government has neglected to state that it was the Australian Labor Party Government which introduced the fixed floor price scheme for wool and committed in excess of $400m to the wool industry. It fails to state that it was the ALP Government which introduced the first substantial increase in the first advance payment to wheat growers. It fails to state that it was the ALP Government which introduced the first special loans for beef producers. Most importantly, it fails to state that the income tax averaging measures arose merely out of the thorough misunderstanding and confusion about the Government's measures. 
The Government has not handed out $100m to primary producers; it has merely prevented the Federal Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  from collecting an additional $80m from the section of primary industry which is fortunate enough to have a taxable income. The measures which were announced in the Budget, the income equalisation deposits and the proposals which the Minister has announced on this occasion will be of very little or no assistance to any primary producer, but more importantly to any beef cattle producer who does not have, and has not had, a positive income over the last two or three years. 
It is all very well for the Minister to talk about introduction of the 40 per cent investment allowance. But that has been of no assistance to very large sections of rural industry which have incomes below $5,000. It has been of benefit only to those who have had substantial positive incomes and have been in the fortunate position of expanding their operations.  Mr Speaker,  may we have some silence in the chamber, please? 
Government supporters- We can hear you. 
If honourable members want to talk, they should go outside. 
-This debate encompasses a debate on two Bills, namely, the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Amendment Bill and the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill. This legislation arises from changes announced in the Budget to the rates of levy applicable under the Coal Export Duty Act and a change in the rate of excise duty on coal which was collected for application to the coal mining industry long service leave fund. The purpose of the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Amendment Bill is to reduce the rates of duty on coking coal from $4.50 to $3.50 a tonne on coal subject to the higher rate and from $1.50 to $1 a tonne on coal subject to the lower rate. This legislation is contingent upon an amendment made by the Government at the time of the last Budget to phase out the coal export duty levy over three years. 
The Opposition opposes the legislation. It does so on the same basis as it did last year, namely, because the Government has not announced its intention to introduce a tax measure as a substitute for the present coal export duty levy. During the debate on this subject last year I took great pains to explain the attitude of the Opposition to the coal industry and to amplify in detail the Opposition 's view of the state of the industry. I also made it clear that the Opposition was of the view that the present coal export duty levy was indiscriminate in its application. I stated then: 
Whilst the present levy was indiscriminate and unfair in operating across the board on all coal company profits, the industry is healthy enough to sustain a selective tax to increase the return to the Australian people. 
Most observers will be aware of the good fortune of the coal industry over the last five years. Prices have risen spectacularly in real terms and some companies have reaped the whirlwind from efficient, large scale production. It is the view of the Opposition that because companies have been given a national asset to mine and export, coupled with the fact that some have managed to do it profitably, many companies can afford to return to the Australian people some of the benefits which commodity price movements have given them. The Government on the other hand takes the view that the companies most successful in this industry should be relieved of any additional tax burden. It is true that some of the marginal producers found the impost of the coal export duty difficult to manage, but some were able to tolerate it with absolute ease and still chalk up massive growth in their profitability. The Utah companies in Queensland between them paid over half the total collections under the duty and were able to increase their profits even with the impost of the duty. I refer to the company's last annual report which points out that in 1975 the company's gross profit was $ 100.9m when the coal export duty levy payable that year was only $ 10.8m. In 1976, despite an increase in the coal export duty from $ 10.8m to $75. 9m, the company was still able to increase its gross profit from $100.9m to $136.9m. This was a 35.6 per cent increase in its gross profit, although it had paid out an extra $65m in duty in that year. 
There are other examples, although they are not as spectacular. How the Government can justify the phasing out of this duty on a company like Utah and not replace it with some secondary profits tax mechanism is absolutely beyond explanation. It seems that naked partisanship can be the only explanation. The Government has had a year since the presentation of the last amending legislation to devise and implement a secondary tax mechanism. If it had done so the Opposition would not be opposing this legislation. Not only has the Government not yet introduced a secondary taxing structure applicable to the coal industry but also it has made it clear that it is not even contemplating one. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  have made it clear in recent times that any secondary profits related tax which may be introduced by the present Government will be applicable only to petroleum and uranium, completely exempting the coal industry. 
The coal export duty levy may have been a clumsy mechanism but it did give an increment to the national wealth from the mining of Australia's valuable coal reserves. I have given notice that a future Labor Government will certainly seek to apply a secondary profits related tax mechanism to the extractive industries. The tax would be carefully designed in consultation with industry so that the objectives of such a tax would be met without some of the distortionary effects which can arise from taxes which are ill designed and hastily imposed. However, some sections of the coal industry can afford to pay more than just company tax alone and, in my view, they should be obliged to pay more. No sensible person believes in penalising companies to the point where development is stymied or where exploration is discouraged. But there is a sensible medium in all things. Imprudent talk by industry leaders about confiscation policies do little to establish a sensible point of agreement between government and industry in relation to the nature and incidence of any new secondary tax. 
Public opinion will eventually force this Government to abandon its overly protective attitude towards the coking coal industry. It is to be hoped that some of the more responsible elements in the Government will see the need for a proper sharing of the tax burden amongst those institutions in Australia that can afford to make a greater contribution to the nation's wealth, so we get away from the situation which we witnessed in recent years in which the growth in tax income came only from the pay-as-you-earn category of individuals. 
The Opposition supports the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill 1977, it supports the increase in the rate of excise duty on coal from 4.3c to 10c per tonne, and it supports the removal of the present duty of 1 .2c per litre on condensate. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 September 1977: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 1220, when did the Secretary of the Treasury first learn of the assertion that the foreign investment proposal referred to could have been influenced by certain financial considerations. 
When did the Secretary of the Treasury inform the treasurer about the assertion. 
Who is the 'Australian source' mentioned in the Treasurer's reply. 
What is the name of the Australian firm mentioned in part ( 1 ) of the Treasurer's reply and who are the principals alleged to have had connections with the former Government. 
Was  Mr M.  A. Besley the then  Chairman  of the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee of the Treasury when this assertion was passed on by the Department of Overseas Trade. 
Did  Mr Besley  reply on behalf of the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee to the Department of Overseas Trade. 
If so, did  Mr Besley  reply through the Secretary of the Treasury. 
Is the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee's filing system separate from that of the Department of the Treasury. 
Was the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee file containing the Department of Overseas Trade's letter and  Mr Besley  's reply found to be missing. 
Will he table in Parliament his advice from the Treasury referred to in part (3) of his reply that no basis for any relationship between circumstances of the kind referred to and any of the cases that had been dealt with under foreign investment procedures was identified. 
Will he also table a copy of the correspondence between the Treasury and the Department of Overseas Trade advising that the Treasury had no knowledge of the kind of practice referred to in the assertion. 
In view of the identical nature of part (I) of the Treasurer's reply and part ( 1 ) of the reply of the Department of Overseas Trade, why did the Treasury and the Department of Overseas Trade need to combine in answering the questions on this matter. 
What was the exact date on the letter, setting out the assertions of financial consideration, received by the Department of Overseas Trade and subsequently, Treasury. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is it his intention to have the House of Representatives dissolved for the purpose of holding a general election later this year? 
-The current spate of takeover offers for Australian coal interests threatens to undermine the essential element of Australia's foreign investment. That is- and I quote from the speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  of April 1976: 
To provide the maximum opportunity for Australians to participate as fully and effectively as practicable in the ownership and control of this country's industries and natural resources. 
The clarity of this principle is being muddied by the proposition that a foreign owned company, prepared to increase its Australian equity to over 50 per cent of its shareholding, should be permitted to bid in a prospective takeover of another company on the basis of equality with an Australian owned company- thus letting the market determine the value and acceptability of each respective offer. Such a proposition is contrary to both the letter and the spirit of the foreign investment policy- a policy which enjoys the bipartisan support of the Government and Opposition parties. 
Proposals to 'Australianise' foreign companies, with the consent of the overseas principals, are attractive in terms of the Australian national interest- but only on certain terms and conditions. The issuing of new shares by a foreign company in exchange for the shares of another company held by Australians, which has the effect of diminishing the magnitude of the holding by foreign principals in a company, is an acceptable, indeed desirable policy, but only in the circumstances where the takeover of a minority interest is contemplated where it is not a controlling interest, or in the situation where no other Australian company is bidding. 
A small, though progressive reduction in the foreign equity of a foreign company, particularly a large foreign company, should not permit such a company to mount a bid for the takeover of another company in Australia on an equal footing with an Australian company. If an Australian company is in the field with a takeover bid, with share bid price within acceptable commercial limits, the Government and the Foreign Investment Review Board should not block such a takeover offer on the basis that a large foreigner is prepared to reduce its foreign equity, or that the offer of the foreigner is more generous to the shareholders of the company to be taken over. Generally, the foreigners can always outbid the natives. Price should not be the determinant in government approval of takeover offers or takeovers. 
A growing level of Australian corporate ownership is the objective of the policy. This cannot be subjugated by the desire to make foreign companies more Australian. On the other hand if Australian companies want the protection of the foreign investment policy and legislation, they should not cast low bids for the shares of other companies. Australian companies that play on the sentiments of economic nationalism with the expectation that takeover proposals will be approved with unrealistic and unacceptably low bids, should not be rewarded with a clear field to their prize. Shareholders of course can reject any offer. But if an offer is likely to be the only offer it could be that shareholders have no option but to accept it. The foreign investment policy must not be debased or destroyed, unwittingly or otherwise by the injudicious behaviour of Australian companies. The policy was developed for the protection of Australian interests and should not be abused. 
Much of what I have said is relevant to the present takeover proposals of Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd and the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Ltd, both of which are bidding for Australian coal resources. 
In particular CSR and CRA are bidding to takeover Australian Associated Resources Ltd, a company which holds S3 per cent of the Hail Creek coking coal project m Queensland. With 53 per cent of the project clearly the owner of AAR would control the project. 
The low growth expectation in the world economy and in Japan indicates that Australia will experience a lower rate of mineral export growth over the next decade. In coking coal this means that, after the development of Utah's Norwich Park mine, the next major coking coal development will probably be the last in the next five to ten years. Hence the corporate jockeying by two large companies that want to diversify into 'big' coal. 
Hail Creek will be the next generation major coking coal mine. Its development costs will be near one billion dollars. Neither CSR nor CRA are in 'big' coal; that is involvement in a mine with an annual export capacity of between four and five million tons. Hail Creek is their last chance for a long time. CSR has put in a bid of $ 1 .75 for each AAR share- a bid which the AAR board says is too low. CSR acceptance rate on the offer is abysmally low. On the other hand CRA has applied to the Foreign Investment Review Board for permission to make an offer on AAR shares at $2.50. 
At this point what needs to be made clear is this: If CSR can get sufficient acceptances to control AAR and thus the Hail Creek project, then it should be given approval by the Foreign Investment Review Board and the Government without any obstruction from CRA. This is the clear course the Government must follow if it is properly to interpret its own policy. AAR shareholders, of course, do not have to sell. If perchance CSR increases its bid price, it is likely that it will be successful. The Government should consider advice to CSR on this aspect. The Government is under no compulsion to accommodate CRA. The only basis for permitting CRA to take up some of the equity of AAR would be if CSR admitted that the project was too big for it to manage and finance or that it could not afford a higher bid. But, even given this circumstance, the Government should still be looking for another Australian company to join forces with CSR before it relents and admits CRA. 
The only possible scenario which would be in any way acceptable in terms of clear Australian control of the project and which involves CRA would be a joint venture company along the lines of the BHP and Shell North West Shelf Development Ltd, which will operate the North West Shelf gas project; that is, a joint company that controls what would be the former AAR 53 per cent of the project and CRA's present 15 per cent direct interest in the project. With the proviso that decisions of the Board would have to be unanimous, it would be clear then that the Australian interest would be protected in that CSR could exercise a veto and thus exercise control over the project. However, this should be viewed as a measure of last resort. 
The Opposition expects the Government to stand behind its policy to endeavour to see that the Hail Creek project has over 50 per cent Australian equity and control. Any premature compromises will be viewed with great disdain from this side of the House. When in government the Opposition would not enjoy being compelled to rearrange the equity situation of any project; but it would not shirk the responsibility. It is far better for the Government to do its job properly now than to have the whole matter opened up later and thrashed out again. No 'Australianisation' plan by CRA, no matter how genuinely contemplated, will allow it to be at present over 50 per cent Australian owned. Therefore CRA is still at this point in time a foreign company and must be dealt with accordingly. This issue presents the first real test of the strength of the Government's commitment to Australian corporate ownership and control. Indeed, the future of the foreign investment policy is at stake. The Opposition will follow developments with great attention and will expect to see the national interest protected. 
Earlier today I advised the Treasurer of my intention to raise this matter in the House and asked him to follow me in the debate to explain the Government's attitude. He has not even had the courtesy to sit in the House during the course of my remarks and he is not prepared to elucidate or explain the Government's attitude to these takeovers. This is indicative of the procedures of the Fraser Government in recent times, in fielding back benchers to explain its policies in the House, so that Ministers are not accountable for the policies. So the Treasurer and the Foreign Investment Review Board should read my speech carefully. Before too much more time elapses- perhaps in only a few weeks- there will be another Australian Labor Party government in Canberra and my party is determined that the national interest will be protected. 
-In an overt political move, the  Chairman  of the Official Establishments Committee,  Mr Andrew  Grimwade, has intervened in the most partisan way in a matter of political controversy.  Mr Grimwade  released a statement attacking an Australian Labor Party advertisement which highlighted the extravagances of the Government in an area which directly affected the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The incursion by  Mr Grimwade  into active political debate is without precedent and can be viewed only as an attempt by him to use his official position to get the Prime Minister off the hook. Clearly, the action of  Mr Grimwade  as a public servant is indefensible. 
Extravagant spending by the Government on official establishments and on furnishings for the Lodge is a matter for the Government, not for  Mr Grimwade  's Committee. The Committee may make recommendations, but it is a matter for the Government to decide whether recommendations should be acted upon. Therefore,  Mr Grimwade  's remarks are a trite apologia for the extravagances of the Prime Minister. If the Prime Minister's friends from the Melbourne establishment want to come to his political defence, let them do so without the prestige and cover of an official government committee. Jobs for the boys are one thing, but keeping the boys in their place is another. When the rest of the nation is denied adequate Federal funding for essential services the Prime Minister lavishes on the Lodge funds for his comfort, on the dubious basis of a recommendation by this now discredited Committee. Given  Mr Grimwade  's personal association with the Prime Minister, one has to ponder whether the statement was issued at the Prime Minister's behest. It is now the duty of the Government to remove  Mr Grimwade  from all statutory and official positions. 
-Before I speak,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I would be grateful if the Committee observed some courtesy particularly in view of the myriad of conversations taking place. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  I would ask all honourable members to resume their seats. 
What is evident in the discussion on the estimates for the Department of National Resources, the Department of Overseas Trade and the Department of the Special Trade Negotiator is that there is a clear absence of any discernible trade policy for Australia, particularly in respect of mineral exports. There is absolutely no policy of orderly marketing. The only intervention by the Government in recent times in terms of trade policy has been the appointment of the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations for the European Economic Community, the honourable member for Bennelong, the Honourable John Howard. He has been to the EEC and, predictably, has come home empty handed. That is mainly because the Government is operating on the foolish premise that it can go to the EEC and talk trade negotiations, the trade-off being uranium exports from Australia. I suppose it has now been clearly realised by the Government that there is no early market for uranium in Western Europe, particularly in the EEC. There is no card to play in terms of any resources diplomacy or trade-off, call it what you like, against uranium exports from Australia. 
This Government has the simple view that the common agricultural policy of the EEC will be watered down by the member countries of the EEC because of international pressure from trading countries like Australia, particularly those selling agricultural commodities. The common agricultural policy of the EEC is the result of the very complex political relationships that have developed within the Community. The common agricultural policy has been an instrument for the steady adjustment of rural industries in the EEC and it is as clear as day to most of us that this will not change in a short period and it may not change over an extended period. The notion of Australia marching into this area, with a special trade negotiator talking about a trade-off with uranium to get concessions on agricultural imports from Australia, is a fairly foolish notion. It flies in the face of all the things that the Government should have learned in the past. 
I can remember not so many years ago when the present  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  then Minister for Primary Industry, went to Britain at the time of its entry into the EEC and had the door slammed firmly in his face. It has been slammed in our faces ever since. The accumulation of surpluses, particularly agricultural surpluses, within that group of countries has played havoc with international commodity prices and some of the commodities we produce. That is the point. 
The Government should be concentrating upon South East Asia and Japan. That is where there are trade opportunities for Australia. That is where Australia's future is. We are a European enclave in the south end of the Asian region and our future, both politically and economically, is tied up with that region. It is particularly tied up with Japan; but there is a huge emerging market in South East Asia to which we must relate. 
Australia should have the complexion of an Asian country and not a European country. This harking back to the past, flying over Asia to Europe to try to sell our agricultural commodities in what is already an area already stuffed withstuffed full of agricultural surpluses - 
Well, stuffed with agricultural surpluses, if you like. There is absolutely no opportunity for sales there. There should be a concentration on South East Asia. 
One has to wonder what kind of machinations are going on within the Government? Why has the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations been appointed at all? What is wrong with the Department of Overseas Trade? Does the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  believe that the  Deputy  Prime Minister is incompetent as Minister for Overseas Trade? Does he believe the Department of Overseas Trade lacks competence? Why has the Special Trade Negotiator been appointed for the European Economic Community? Perhaps one could understand if a special trade negotiator had been appointed to Japan because there is absolutely no coordination in trade policy between Australia and Japan. That is clearly in evidence by the kinds of things that have happened in recent weeks. I refer to ships laden with sugar standing off the Japanese coast for a couple of months with the huge demurrage costs being borne by Australia and to the coal prices and the tonnages now being forced back because of no clear policy of the Government in terms of representation of a single trade interest with Japan. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  talks about beef sales to Japan. The  Deputy  Prime Minister talks about sugar. But nobody talks about coal or iron ore. In the manufacturing area the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  talks about the export to Australia of Japanese manufactured motor vehicles and other secondary products. There are half a dozen voices talking to Japan about trade when there should be one, when there should be one clear trade approach between Australia and Japan. 
One really wonders what the Minister for National Resources who is also the Minister for Overseas Trade is ever doing because it just seems to me to be a misnomer to call him the Minister for Overseas Trade at all. In terms of this important relationship that Australia has with other countries, he seems to carry out no single function in the exercise of the responsibilities given to him by the Governor-General. 
I mentioned the subject of coal earlier and I said that there is no orderly marketing in the coal industry. We have a weak market in coal and yet there is no trading response from the Government to it. The  Deputy  Prime Minister chided the Opposition in the House today about the honouring of existing uranium contracts with 
Japan. But we very rarely hear him talk about Japan honouring existing coal contracts with Australia. We do not see much activity from him when we talk about Japan honouring existing sugar contracts with Australia. Oh yes, this matter is haggled about in discussions on the International Sugar Agreement but there was no way in which the  Deputy  Prime Minister was able to exercise any pressure upon Japan in terms of sugar agreements. There has been no way up until now that he has ever exercised any pressure on Japan in respect of coal. The Opposition has to honour to the letter and to the last definable ounce its contractual agreements. But Japan can take 60 per cent or 70 per cent of uplift of contracts whenever it likes and the Government is silent. Of course, the Government has let the side down. This is no more so than in the case of coal. 
International prices in the coal industry are on the slide. Yet, the Minister has made no attempt to co-ordinate sales of coal to Japan. The Minister should call in companies such as Clutha Development Pty Ltd, Bellambi Coal Co. Ltd, Utah Development Company and Kembla Coal and Coke Pty Ltd to talk about a general trade approach. Instead of that, we see this despicable situation where the Utah company in Queensland is threatening the whole pricing future of the Australian coal industry by selling at outrageous prices for spot sales under contract prices. I have obtained some statistics from the Bureau of Statistics which I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)-Is  leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="107131197710180_27_2.jpg"></graphic>

The present long term price for sales of coking coal to Mexico is around $A47 a ton. Yet some of the sales by Utah to Greece are as low as $32.40 a ton which is $ 1 5 a ton less than the ruling contract prices. Other prices are $33.41 a ton to Greece, $34.55 a ton to the Netherlands, $34.33 a ton to the Netherlands, $34.20 a ton to Belgium and $52.31 a ton to Taiwan. The same coal is ranging from $52 a ton to $32 a ton and this $20 a ton disparity is threatening the whole pricing structure of Australian coal. Yet the Government lets it go on because Utah will do anything for tonnage. If it means running out and ratting on the other producers in Australia it will do so. Although the Government has the power to check Utah it lacks the gumption to pull this company into line. 
There is no orderly marketing in the industry. All of the south coast producers have high stocks of coal and, therefore, they must compete in the spot market to be rid of it. If we start competing hard in the spot market and reduce the across the board prices in respect of spot sales there will be a crack in our facade. Once that happens Japan will be in like a shot and it will argue down our long term price. Every dollar lost on 35 million tons or 40 million tons of coal a year means a loss of $30m in export income. Yet there is no attempt by the Government to put any sanity back into the industry or into pricing. 
The Government says in its private negotiations that Canada cuts price. Canada does not cut price. Canada only cuts prices when it believes Australia will not hold its prices. It has never shown any inkling to cut prices when Australia is prepared to hold its prices. The United States of America has just bought 700,000 tons of coal so no one could say, as this country is now a net importer, that it is a price competitor. The wild joker in the pack is Utah and it is prepared to debase and to destroy the Australian coal export industry by its compulsion to put tonnage through its plants at any price it can get. In recent times we have seen this militate against south coast producers in New South Wales. 
There is no consistent trade approach to Japan. The people of Australia are not getting value for money in terms of their trade policy and the Government ought to be ashamed of its initiatives or lack of initiatives in this area of Australian commerce. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Will the Treasurer make a statement in the House to supplement and update his foreign investment policy speech of April 1976, outlining the Government's attitude to applications for the acquisition of shareholdings by foreign companies that have given notice to the Government of their intention to reduce their foreign holdings below 50 per cent of their shareholdings? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. During the mealymouthed attack on people on this side of the House by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  he said, amongst other things, that I had knifed the Leader of the Australian Labor Party in the back. The basis of that convoluted thinking was that I made a speech in the 
House last week in which I attacked the political utterances of  Mr Andrew  Grimwade. The honourable member for Denison went on to say that because the Leader of the Opposition supported his appointment to the Committee of which he is a member I was then knifing the Leader of the Opposition. The point was that the Leader of the Opposition did not support his appointment to that Committee. The appointment was made by the present Government. There is no basis for the remarks made by the honourable member - 
-I will leave it at that point. I just wanted the House to understand that the basis of the honourable member's comments was his own view of my relations with the Leader through the appointment of that gentleman. The point I was going to make was that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as the custodian of the Chair, should not, in my view, permit those kinds of attacks on honourable members. 

 Mr SCHOLES (Corio)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I rise to support the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  in the discussion of this matter of public importance, namely, the economic instability caused by the massive export of funds by overseasowned firms. This is a matter to which the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  did not address himself. It is an indication of the Government's desperation that much of the Treasurer's speech was devoted to a personal attack upon the honourable member for Oxley. The real problem is the absence of Government policy in the handling of the balance of payments problem which has caused a massive flight of funds from Australia. This has created economic instability and has produced a want of confidence in the parity of the currency among firms resident in Australia, particularly international companies which have either branches or subsidiaries operating in Australia. It is worth recounting for the record that since mid-September the outflow has been $6 18m. Despite official borrowings and a revaluation of gold holdings which added $8 16m to our reserves, the reserves rose by only $197m. Even since the Acting Treasurer announced one month ago that the Government would be securing a $ 1,700m borrowing outside Australia there has still been a $253m outflow from Australia. So the flow continues because outflow begets outflow. Once there is a lack of confidence and once there is speculation, of course companies cannot take a chance and they shift their profits offshore. 
Importers in Australia get chary about the state of the dollar and they pay instantly for their imports. Instead of extending their payments over a normal period they start bunching them and paying forthwith. The result is a propensity to intensify the outflow which of course undermines the whole basis of the currency. We have seen this trend over a number of years now. The invisibles are growing rapidly in the balance of payments picture despite some healthy trade surpluses. The largest factor in the invisibles is represented by dividends. The investment hump of the 1960s is now the dividend hump of the 1970s. Dividends are not being reinvested in Australia. Companies are obliged to repatriate dividends because they believe they will suffer a capital loss if the currency changes. 
The two companies which have raised this matter and brought it to public gaze are Utah International and the Ford company, which both operate in Australia. Utah has shipped $130m out of the country, although its earnings were only $1 16m. In other words, it has been shifting every cent it can out of Australia to avoid the possibility of a capital loss. Of course the Treasurer blames the honourable member for Oxley for this problem. I should just like to recount to him a statement by Hill Samuel Australia Ltd in its October bulletin on the Australian banking and capital markets. Hill Samuel is a merchant banker with whom the Treasurer would be acquainted. The report states: 
The Government must take a lot of the blame for allowing this situation to develop and for not taking corrective actions which were clearly needed many months ago. As we had suggested in recent reports, if the Government had announced substantial overseas borrowing arrangements earlier, the major part of the capital outflow experienced in recent months would not have eventuated. 
We are aware of several companies who elected to remit funds abroad and we would add here that none of them indicated that their decision was a result of announcements made by  Mr Hayden  or other Labor spokesmen, or newspaper articles. The weakness of the Australian Dollar was evident, not only to companies in Australia, but also to those overseas companies which have subsidiaries in Australia . . . 
The report went on: ... no responsible actions being taken on the Australian Dollar front by the Fraser Government, there was only one correct action for corporations exposed to exchange risks to take- i.e. to remit their funds, where due, overseas. 
That was the conservative merchant banker, Hill Samuel Ltd, as set out in its October bulletin on the state of the Australian capital market. So much for the Treasurer's mealy-mouthed attack on the honourable member for Oxley and on statements by members of the Opposition. The situation is as I have stated. There is a malaise in government thinking in terms of the balance of payments problems and there is the villainy of companies resident in Australia, particularly Utah, which are acting against the Australian national interest. Utah is the company which advertises: 'We are backing Australia'. It is backing Australia all right. It is knifing Australia in the back by producing a run on the currency and by fostering speculation. Companies look at the statistics. Look at the way this company has been treated in Australia. The Government obliged it by lifting the coal export duty levy. This company was paying $75m in levy in 1976. That is now being phased out and eventually Utah will be paying nothing. That is despite the fact that the company's profitability rose by 36 per cent from $100m to $136.9m in that year and despite the fact that it paid out $76m in duty. Of course the company can afford to pay, but it has been treated very generously by the Australian Government. Yet not only does it export and repatriate its earnings from Australia but it does it in such a way and under such a corporate structure as to also even absolve itself from paying the normal withholding tax that other subsidiaries of foreign companies pay. So the company is at fault on two accounts-evading the tax laws and exporting capital when the Australian Government is doing its best to save the currency. That is the performance of Utah. 
Next is the Ford company.  Sir Brian  Inglis,  chairman  of Ford, is part of  Mr Fraser  's economic consultative committee. So there is a real Trojan horse operation. One of the main offenders in this matter is right inside the Government's councils giving advice. Ford is a company which is protected, as the honourable member for Oxley mentioned, by the 85 per cent content plan for motor vehicles. Its cars are over 100 per cent dearer than similar vehicles in the United States of America. There is a 100 per cent premium on its cars manufactured in Australia. It is a company which has constantly resisted rationalisation of the industry. When the Australian Labor Party was in government,  Sir Brian  Inglis was parading here telling us that he would not forgo product identification for rationalisation. He has to have the Ford stamp on the company's gearboxes. The company will not have any rationalisation. Yet this company, which is protected, is prepared to ship its money out of this country to the detriment of the Australian currency. It is prepared to do this in the face of policies of the Australian Government, a government to which  Sir Brian  Inglis is a principal adviser. 
So much for the goodwill of these two companies operating in Australia. What is underlying their activities and their motives? What is underlying them is their lack of confidence in the Fraser Government's management of the balance of payments problem. That is the real reason why they have shipped money out of the country. They have no confidence in  Mr Lynch  as the Treasurer or in the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It ill becomes the Treasurer to attack the honourable member for Oxley when he himself is the laughing stock of Australian business. There is no single personality on the Government side who is thought less of in corporate Australia than  Mr Lynch.  Let that go on the record. Let us deal now with some of these companies. The Taxation office should be looking at the behaviour of Utah, Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd, Comalco Ltd, Esso Australia Ltd, and even Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, an Australian company. They are large enough to have closer scrutiny by the Taxation Office. It is far better to do that and adjust the laws so that these kinds of situations do not arise and pay for the extra staff to have these companies policed than to find one day that our tax laws are wanting and that we have a hole large enough to drive a horse and cart through in as much as the Utah company is a branch of Utah International and not a subsidiary in Australia. I think all of those companies should come under scrutiny. That is the point. 
The currency has been depreciated. There has been a tax upon it because of the behaviour of these companies brought about through the bungling of the Government in its management of the balance of payments problem and the ineptitude of two very well looked after foreign companies in Australia which are acting contrary to the Australian national interest, flagrantly disregarding the interests of Australia in managing and stabilising its currency, which is crucial to a trading nation and particularly a nation which is largely dependent on investment for the development of its industries. Shame on these companies and shame upon the Government for letting them get away with it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Op- position does not oppose the three pieces of legislation being debated cognately. The Excise Tariff Amendment BUI (No. 2) 1977 is designed to increase the existing excise on coal from 10c to 15c per tonne. The purpose of the Sc increase is to finance research into coal under the Coal Research Assistance Act which will be passed into legislation when these Bills are consented to by both sides of the Parliament. The other 10c which is normally collected under the Coal Mining Industry Long Service Leave Fund Will be transferred under the States Grants (Coal Mining Industry Long Service Leave) Amendment Bill 1977 so that only two-thirds of the funds collected Will go to the Long Service Leave Fund, whereas formerly the total money collected went to the Fund. In other words, 10c per tonne will go to the Long Service Leave Fund and Sc will go to the Coal Research Trust Account. The other BUI which we are debating cognately is the Coal Research Assistance Bill 1977. It establishes the Coal Research Trust Account. That Trust Account will manage the 5c per tonne levy imposed on aU existing non-State owned black coal production in Australia, together with collections made in respect of brown coal and State owned black coal not covered by the existing excise. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  indicated that this legislation will raise an additional $4m. The amount spent on research into coal technology for the financial year 1976-77 was $9.6m. The amount has increased only modestly since 1972 when it was $5m. The effect of this legislation will be that total moneys expended will be about $ 13.6m. It is not a lot of money and it is nothing for the House to get excited about when we consider Australia's huge potential for coal production. We are very richly endowed with black and brown coal in this country. The research effort into coal technology is, of course, very puny. 
In his second reading speech the Minister mentioned that at the moment Australia is entering into agreements with the Government of West Germany and with the governments of Victoria and New South Wales to look at feasibility studies for the production of synthetic liquid od from Australian coal. That is a healthy trend. The Government also says that it is moving into an agency-to-agency agreement on coal research in co-operation with the Department of National Resources and the National Coal Board of the United Kingdom. Whilst that also is a healthy trend, it is a case of far too little activity. 
I think it is worth putting on the record the size of Australia's coal reserves. To give an indication of them, I shall just cite Australia's primary energy reserves in terms of millions of barrels of oil equivalent. We have in Australia about 1,850 million barrels of oil, about 5,500 million barrels of gas, 63,000 million barrels of uranium and 77,000 million in coal. Although these reserves amount to billions of dollars of production value, the research effort is but $14m. Of course, we should be doing much more. Perhaps we could take a leaf out of the books of other countries which are investing money in coal research. At the moment we produce about 40 million tonnes of coal. In Great Britain the British National Coal Board produces about 120 million tonnes. The German Democratic Republic- that is East Germany- produces about 240 million tonnes, which is six times the amount that Australia produces. I think it is sensible for Australia to enter into joint technological feasibility studies on coal conversion, coal science and coal research, given the experience in those other countries. But the kind of money being provided is not sufficient. 
The last Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party held in Perth adopted a policy that in government we would establish a national fuel and energy commission which would have the management of all research into energy in Australia. Such an energy commission would have the role of co-ordinating all research efforts around Australia, and it would manage the Federal funding of such research. There would be established an energy research and development fund financed, amongst other means, by a secondary profits related tax on energy industries. What Australia desperately needs, of course, is a body which can manage not only an energy policy but also research into alternative energy technology. We have never had such a body. Whilst the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation does a valiant job in carrying research in certain areas and whilst the private coal companies, through their own organisations, do some research, not enough research is taking place. That which is taking place is, by and large, unco-ordinated. The Federal Government must set up an agency which co-ordinates research and which can provide adequate amounts of money to be directed into certain types of research. 
Australia is in a very critical position in terms of liquid fuel. In the next three or four years we will see the end of the high point of production of crude oil from Bass Strait, Moonee and Wapet in Western Australia. Australia's crude oil reserves will then begin to decline rapidly. At the same time our demand for crude oil is growing exponentially. So within 10 years Australia will probably be providing only about 25 per cent of its crude oil requirements. At the moment it is providing 65 per cent of its requirements. It therefore makes sense for Australia to be directing its research efforts at those energy reserves which can complement our diminishing liquid fuel sufficiency, or portable fuels. One such area is, of course, coal. 
The Opposition does not oppose the legislation, although we do not support it because we believe that the amount of money being provided is not enough. It is just too puny an effort. The 5c per tonne is just a small increment to what is otherwise a very modest research effort. So we on this side of the House would like to see a much better performance in relation to coal research, and a much better performance in relation to research into alternative energy sources generally. A Labor Government would set up the machinery to ensure that there was a fully coordinated, integrated and well-funded research effort. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this legislation. The purpose of the legislation is for the Commonwealth to provide assistance to Tasmania, on a dollar for dollar basis with the Tasmanian Government, to underwrite the operation of the Mount Lyell copper mine from 15 August 1977 to a date not later than 30 June 1978. In his second reading speech the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  indicated that the magnitude of the Commonwealth's contribution would be of the order of $5m over the period mentioned. The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd sustains the employment base of Queenstown in Tasmania. The mine has been facing financial difficulties since world copper prices started to fall while it is facing the prospect of rising costs. At present the Industries Assistance Commission is conducting a long term assistance inquiry into copper mining which, of course, is relevant to the problem at Mount Lyell, although the Government is in receipt of the temporary assistance report which was completed on 30 September. 
The problem at Mount Lyell has been evident for sometime, as has the employment problem in regional centres depending on specific industries; yet to date the Government has done nothing about a structural adjustment program to face the kind of situation now faced at Mount Lyell. Not only has there not been any conceptual work done on a structural adjustment program but also no funds have yet been made available to meet contingencies. The industry policy of the Fraser Government has been characterised by its sheer ad hockery. The Government moves when it has to, and not before. One could almost believe that the Government thinks that these problems will just go away if it turns its attention from them for long enough. It is the intention of the future Labor Government to provide a comprehensive structural adjustment facility so that situations such as the Mount Lyell one can be accommodated and whole communities are not disrupted by changes in demand in Australia or a change in world commodity prices. 
The agreement with the Mount Lyell company is, of course, between the company and the State Government of Tasmania, not the Commonwealth. As I said earlier, the Commonwealth will meet State contributions on a dollar for dollar basis, although the Government has made it clear that the funds would be repayable to the Commonwealth should the mine return to a position where its cash flow generation is positive. The Opposition regrets the plight of the Mount 
Lyell company and the apprehension of the community that depends upon it. However, these situations do arise and will arise in the future. Only positive government policy can alleviate the upheaval which results from the closure of an enterprise which is the employment base of a regional centre. 
There is another situation similar to this, at the Cobar copper mine in New South Wales. My colleague the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick),  who will be the honourable member for Riverina in the next Parliament has been conscious of the problem of diminishing copper prices and the effects upon the Cobar mine. It is interesting to note that, although this legislation is the preserve of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  or the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony),  in fact it was introduced by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. It has nothing whatsoever to do with his portfolio. But that is an indication of the Fraser Government's cynicism, in having a Tasmanian Minister introduce the legislation. Nothing positive has been said or done about the Cobar mine- a copper mine which is faced with precisely the same problems as the Mount Lyell mine and which has been hanging on simply because it is in the middle of a Labor seat and is not in a position where the electorate surrounding it may be up for grabs. 
What is sad about this is that the Government makes a move only a couple of weeks before the election and leaves the money outstanding only until next June. After next June, unless the government comes up with some positive program, the workers at Mount Lyell can whistle and find another job. It does nothing positive about the mine at Cobar in New South Wales. The fight for that is to be left to the honourable member for Darling. It is sad that these contingencies arise, particularly with mining, where fluctuations in commodity prices can affect the viability of a mine and, because it is regionally based, affect the whole employment structure of a particular regional centre. There must be a consistent, clear government program of structural adjustment to accommodate it- not the ad hockery and cynicism which have been displayed by the Government in this case. The point is clear. There are people involved at Mount Lyell and there is a town dependent on the mine. The Opposition does not therefore oppose the legislation but suggests to the Government that it treat Cobar equally. We expect to see legislation on Cobar brought into the Parliament before the House rises. In not opposing the legislation, the Opposition laments the fact that the Government has been so tardy in dealing with Mount Lyell and the broader problem of structural adjustment. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Cotter)  proposed: 
That Business of the day be called on. 

<graphic href="107131197711031_26_1_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="107131197711031_26_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="107131197711031_26_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Will the Minister for Transport assure the House, the community surrounding Bankstown airport in New South Wales and those who use the airport that no regular public transport or freight airline operations, including commuter services, will be moved to Bankstown as a result of a proposal for new flight separation procedures at Mascot? Further, will the Minister expedite plans for the establishment of a light aircraft facility in Sydney's northern suburbs to give relief to both Bankstown and Mascot airports? 
-by leave-In what is a remarkable display of cynicism on the day before the House rises for a general election, the Government has now introduced what it terms its energy policy statement. No doubt, following his disastrous performance on the  Four Corners  program last week, the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  was prompted to try to save the day and to rid the Government of the charge to which it is now laying itself open- the charge that it has done nothing about an energy policy. This statement, I believe, is the result of a 150-page submission to Cabinet last Saturday. One wonders why the Minister does not do the decent thing and table the whole submission so that we can really get the Government 's thinking on the energy issue. All in all the policy is just a collection of truisms. It was a rambling statement that did not mention one hard issue or enunciate one hard decision. 
The Carter administration in the United States of America after only four or five months in office introduced a comprehensive and hard energy policy. This Government has been in office for two years. It has done nothing. The Minister comes in here with this rambling, shambling statement just a day before the House rises. So much for the Government's interest in energy policy. The Government does not want to enter the election campaign saying that it has done nothing about an energy policy. I notice in the statement that the only references to positive parts are a straight lift from Labor policy. It is a case of the coalition, as usual, not doing its own thinking and relying on our Federal Conference documentation to provide it with a policy. Let me take the time to read some of the relevant parts of the Australian Labor Party Federal Conference policy into  Hansard  so that interested people can make a comparison. Even the expressions are similar. I quote from page 4 of our document. This deals with energy policy and reads: 
The aim of the policy is a long-term sustainable energy economy, in which energy resources and technologies are appropriate to the needs and goals of the Australian community. 
A National Energy Policy should encompass: 
the careful use of Fossil Fuel reserves as a bridge to the longer term future; 
promotion of energy awareness in the public and private sectors and amongst individuals; 
That relates to a publicity campaign. One of the things the Minister is now talking about we talked about and wrote into our policy months ago. The policy continues: 
a strong program of energy conservation. 
The Government has just discovered that it should be interested in energy conservation. The document continues: 
a gradual and planned shift to renewable energy resources. 
To those ends: 
Policy on Fossil Fuels to include: 
promotion of further exploration; 
b) close investigation of present and future fossil fuel requirements, efficiencies of use and alternative uses, conservation of reserves, regulation of marketing and export and overall planning to cater for the depletion of reserves; 
increased attention to alleviating the environmental effects of fossil fuel use; 
continued investigation into the gasification and liquefaction of coal. 
It is strange that we had all this out in the market place six months ago. The Government is now only just talking about it. The policy continues: 
A policy on energy awareness should include: 
fostering energy analysis in the private sector, and energy impact statements for new developments; 
encouraging individual consciousness of the energy costs of decisions through education, provision of information, and labelling of consumer goods for energy efficiencies. 
The vehicle for Labor policy is the establishment of a national fuel and energy commission. To this end the policy states: 
Labor will establish a National Fuel and Energy Commission to assist the Australian Government in developing and implementing a co-ordinated fuel and energy policy. The Commission will, together with the Department of Minerals and Energy, provide the Australian Government with expert advice on energy. 
The Fuel and Energy Commission will: 
be composed of representatives of Federal and State Governments and of producers and consumers of energy; 
be funded directly by the Australian Government, and in return be responsible to the Australian Government through the Minister for Minerals and Energy; 
be responsible for the preparation of a blue-print for Australia's future energy requirements and an inventory of Australia's energy resources, and will specifically- 
monitor the exploration, development, transport, price, marketing and use of energy hydrocarbons, fissionable materials and generative water, with the object of achieving the best energy balance for Australia; 
Honourable members should listen to this one - 
in co-operation with ASTEC, be responsible for the national co-ordination and Federal funding of energy research and development in Australia, including particular research relating to coal conversion and solar energy. 
Let us recall the Minister's speech. Amongst other things he said: 
Special machinery will be established to administer the expanded program and allocate funds, and a high level body, having close links with the National Energy Advisory Committee, will be established to report to me, as Minister for National Resources, on these matters. 
Earlier in his statement he said: 
This raises the question of the need for substantial Government participation in all phases of energy research, development, and demonstration. 
When did the Liberals ever talk about government participation in anything, much less energy research? The Minister continued: 
Direct Government funding will facilitate the integration of our national effort in energy research with overall policy objectives, and ensure that the research effort is properly coordinated. 
That statement is almost a straight lift from Labor policy. We say: 
Be responsible for the national co-ordination and Federal funding of energy research and development of Australia. 
When did this crowd ever talk about federal funding or co-ordination of research? The Government has just picked up our policy. The Government has paid us a great compliment. Let me turn to some other pans of the Minister's statement. He said: 
One of our main tasks as a government in the field of energy policy is to develop, as far as practicable, firm and stable guidelines for the development of the energy industries. 
The Minister went on to talk about consensus policy. I will read what we say about that so that it can be made clear from whose policy the Minister is reading. The general preamble to the minerals and energy policy of the Australian Labor Party states: 
The mineral and energy policies of the Australian Labor Party are based on the principle of government supervision of Australia's mining and petroleum industries through a policy of clear and consistent guidelines. 
The Minister says 'firm and stable guidelines'. We state:  . . . through a policy of clear and consistent guidelines. 
The preamble continues: 
This policy will be administered to establish a stable climate for long life investment that will provide growth to the Australian economy and an improvement in the living standards of all Australians. 
Above all, these policies will be administered with flexibility and in consultation with industry and labour so as to guarantee that the objectives are fully realised and that the national interest is protected. 
The Minister, in talking about the need for a national publicity program, said: 
An effective energy conservation program would essentially represent a campaign to change national attitudes in relation to energy usage. 
We pioneered this little bit of thinking when we stated in paragraph (b) of our policy, which I have already read: 
Promotion of energy awareness in the public and private sectors and amongst individuals; in the company of- a strong program of energy conservation. 
The whole point is that the Government has never had an energy policy and does not have one now. But it feels that it has been remiss in not dealing with the issue and now comes in with this statement at the 1 1th hour, the day before the House rises. The Government knows that the statement cannot be debated. I have to respond to it extemporaneously, not with a prepared speech, because tomorrow the House will rise and there will be no opportunity to debate it. So much for the way the Government considers energy issues. 
The Minister made great play about the fact that he thought there should be a national concensus. He said that this is what we need in Australia and that without it we cannot progress. When has the Government ever supported anything that the Australian Labor Party has said about minerals and energy? In the Parliament from 1972 to 1975 honourable members opposite took every opportunity unfairly to beat the then Minister for Minerals and Energy around the ears with statements that he made- quite defensible, reasonable statements. Honourable members opposite have never at any stage shown any inkling of achieving a national concensus on anything, much less investment policy, because they think that they are the only people who should have connections with these industries, that they are the only people who can govern these huge industries and that there is no need for concensus about anything. But now we hear talk of a national concensus. They are now in an election campaign and it is all sweet reason. But listen to what the Australian Labor Party stated. At the Australian Petroleum Exploration 
Association Symposium on 20 September last year I said: 
The prime requirement of such a minerals and energy policy is that its objectives be clearly stated and that the ground rules for investment and development be well known and understood. 
It seems that the Minister's statement is reminiscent of those words. I continued: 
As far as is practicable such ground rules should remain constant so as to provide investment planners with a clear overview of the nature of government policy throughout the life of the investment. It is only by assurance and certainty in respect of the policies laid down, that the private sector and government can establish a working relationship conducive of continuing progress and development. 
This is the crux,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I continued: 
The ideal is that a degree of bipartisanship exist between the major political parties in respect of resource development in as far as it affects government policy. Changes of government, which are likely to occur more frequently in the future than they have in the past, would then witness changes in emphasis of resources policy rather than substantive changes in direction. 
There it is. When have we ever heard that from the Government? I delivered that speech to APEA. Two or three months later at another APEA convention, which I happily walked out of, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his contribution to bipartisanship belted the hell out of the Australian Labor Party and the former Labor Government and said that the only good news he had for the industry on that day was to keep backing him and his party and not to have a bar of us. To get back to the question, who are the authors of the Government's policy? The authors are the members of the Australian Labor Party. The Government has just lifted our policy in this area as it has done in many other areas in the past. But the Government has not put its policy as positively as we have. We had all the lies about what happened between 1972 and 1975 and how no projects got off the ground. They did not get off the ground for the same reason that they are not getting off the ground now- that the Japanese economy turned down - 

 Government supporters interjecting- 

Oh shut up, you hillbillies. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The House will come to order. 
The Japanese economy turned down, the resource projects were not required and long term contracts could not be secured because cash flows from contracts could not be guaranteed and funds were not advanced for development. It is just as simple as that. The Minister for National Resources berated the former Administration about the North West Shelf. But it was his party which challenged the 
Seas and Submerged Lands Act in the High Court. It was the Senate which delayed the passage of the legislation through the Parliament. It was he and his party who added to the uncertainty surrounding these off-shore ventures. In terms of that project the Burmah oil company was stuck for cash half way through because it invested in an enormous tanker fleet just before the crash in the world oil tanker trade, when the world economy turned down in 1973-74. It had 25 tankers tied up in Norwegian fiords attracting about Stg11m or £St&amp;12m a year in interest. That is why the North West Shelf project did not go ahead. Finally Burmah sold its interest to Shell and the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. In fact the Government is today claiming that it got the project off the ground. We have positively supported the project. We have said that we would agree to gas exports and we have made easier all the requirements that the banks may require of the consortium - 
-I would like to add a few words to those already uttered by the party leaders. In particular to my colleagues the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  the honourable member for Lalor,  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and to two close friends I have on the Government side, the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  and the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  and to other members, I wish them well in their retirement or in their attempts to come back to Parliament. I particularly want to add something to the careers of and the esteem in which members on this side of the House hold the three retiring Labor members. It has been for me as a young man in Parliament a great privilege to have had the benefit of eight years of the company and companionship of the honourable member for Fremantle, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and the honourable member for Lalor. When you come to Parliament as a young man you always seek to gather experience quickly, but that is something that comes to you over a long period of time and the only way of short-circuiting the system is to take the advice and have the camaraderie of other men. This I have done with the three members I have mentioned and I have listened and learned a great deal from them. 
I think the thing that has to be admired in the three of them is that they have maintained their sense of equilibrium and sanity throughout 23 years in opposition in Federal Parliament. It is a sad commentary, I think, on the Westminster system that the talent, commitment and dedication of those three members have been denied to the Australian people because of the vagaries and the structure of this political system in that they had been left languishing for 23 years in opposition before they got an opportunity to display any administrative finesse or to make any commitment to the Australian people. In the bad years of Labor when there was division in the Party and in those many years in Opposition, they managed to stand by their principles and then to take an active part in the Whitlam Administration with a clarity of purpose which I think was obvious to aU observers. 
In respect of the honourable member for Fremantle, his commitment to Australian education and the fact that he removed it from the political football field will stand to his everlasting testament. For most of his 23 years in Parliament the honourable member for Melbourne Ports stood where I am standing now, enunciating the principles of Labor on the economic front and his commitment as the Treasurer of the Commonwealth. These years will stand him in good stead. My friend the honourable member for Lalor whose valiant fight against those on the other side of the House m terms of the war in Vietnam and other unpopular issues, also stands in high esteem in the eyes of this nation. These are three men who came to Parliament with principles and I hope that in the years that follow the young men who come- and they aU come as young men- to Canberra do not come here just to take a seat in the Parliament, but to make a contribution based on principles which they have developed over the years and with which they stay. I just hope that they will not go away disillusioned, as these three men could have gone away, when they saw the system that they persisted with for 23 years ripped from underneath them by the actions of the Queen's representative. That did nothing for the standing of Parliament. It did nothing for those on this side of the House who believe in the parliamentary institution, and it was poor testament to three people who maintained their principles when they got the chance which they won at election to administer the poliCies of this nation that it was denied to them. 
So I join in saying on behalf of some of the younger men in the Parliament that I have enjoyed their company immensely and the right to have served with them in the Labor Party in the House of Representatives. 
I ask a question of the Prime Minister. As far as the Prime Minister can recall, on what date did he first discuss with  Sir John  Kerr a further government appointment for him in the event of his retirement as GovernorGeneral? 

 -Extolling Sir John Kerr's virtues in this matter now is no defence for the matter which the Opposition has raised. What is at issue is not  Sir John  Kerr. What is at issue is the credibility of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in appointing  Sir John  Kerr as Australia's Ambassador to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation. The Prime Minister has talked about the affairs of 1 975. 1 will deal with them very briefly. He undertook to the Governor-General to guarantee Supply. In fact, had the Bill not passed this House or had it been repealed by this House after we found that this gentleman had been appointed Prime Minister, there could have been no Supply to hold the election. Let us not talk about the mechanics of the operation. If the Senate Opposition had been appraised of the events of that day, the Bill would never have passed that House either. The whole issue was that the then Opposition did not have the guts to vote against the Budget. It did not defeat the Budget. It put off passing the Budget. The present Prime Minister was as white as a sheet for a week before 1 1 November 1975. He twiddled with his pens every day in the Parliament because he knew his whole Party was against him. On 11 November 1975 I travelled down to Canberra with another honourable member who is a Minister in the present Government. I remember him saying: 'I do not know what our crowd will do. We do not know where this is heading'. Honourable members opposite knew what the then Leader of the Opposition was playing with. He was a wrecker. But what happened? The Governor-General saved him. No amount of extolling the virtues of the Governor-General will save this man from the judgment of history. This man was prepared to tear the fabric of Australian politics to pieces to get into office by what Steele Hall described as the sleazy road to power. Let that matter rest. 
What we are dealing with today is why the Prime Minister has appointed this symbol of division and derision in the community to a major Government post. The new Governor-General,  Sir Zelman  Cowen, just two weeks before this appointment was announced said in his Australia Day message: 
It is part of our vision for Australia 's future to bring out the things we agree on, not allow ourselves to be distracted by partisan interest or by sectional demand. 
Then, two weeks later, the Prime Minister announces an appointment which rips the country to pieces again. It tears up the whole consensus about which  Sir Zelman  Cowen talked when he referred to a touch of healing. What chance is there for a touch of healing when a political brigand like this is in the Prime Minister's chair? There is obviously none. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  has referred to some of the attitudes of the more conservative supporters of the Prime Minister on this matter. He quoted the words of Geoffrey Fairbairn. I think that the Leader of the Opposition should have quoted the rest of Geoffrey Fairbairn 's letter. He said: 
He - 
That is the Prime Minister-  has dishonoured the most deep-seated ideas of Australian decency, ideas that still beautifully transcend party-political allegiances; in his spoilt-boy arrogance he has struck at what makes a nation of us . . .  Mr Fraser  is a walking and talking disaster area for the future of this country. I can only hope that other conservatives realise this. 
There is also a letter from Alan Watt, a diplomat, in much the same terms. When the Prime Minister has been questioned about these letters he has said: 'There have been one or two editorials and letters on the subject'. But the truth is that every major newspaper in the country panned the decision that he took. Let me read the newspaper headings. The  Australian  headed its editorial 'Ripping the scab off the sore'. The  Age  carried the heading 'Lazarus in a top hat'. 'Jobs for the Boy' was the editorial heading in the Melbourne  Herald.  'A pension in Paris ' was an article heading in the Sydney  Sun.  The conservative  CourierMail,  of all newspapers, headed its editorial 'Good Lord, it can't be!' The heading 'Undiplomatic posting' appeared above The  Canberra Times  editorial. These were the editorial headings directed at a man who does not take notice of editorials. He stated on the  PM  radio program on 10 February that there were one or two editorials on the subject. But, he said, after 20 years in politics he was not going to be distressed by editorials. This is the man who in 1975 hawked himself around every newspaper proprietor in the country and told them that he would not reject Supply unless he received their full editorial support in advance; and he got it. This is the man who said: 'I will not move in the Parliament without your unqualified support'. He is now saying that editorials mean nothing and that there is no consensus against him. He says that only a few cranky letters to the editor have been against him. Obviously, this man is now chronically and disastrously out of touch with Australian public opinion. So much for public opinion and informed debate. 
The Prime Minister has contempt for any person who does not agree with him. There can be no national consensus with this man as Prime Minister. He rules by division. I would like to quote from an editorial that the  Deputy  Leader Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  also quoted last week. It is the editorial of the  Australian Financial Review  of last Tuesday. It states: 

 His personal history. reveals a disturbing capacity for creating drama and tension around him. 
How apt that is. This is the man who talks consensus but who rules by division. He is not only divisive and contemptuous of the feelings of people and the sensitivity of the electorate; he is also a chronic trafficker in distortions. It does not matter whether it is an election promise, a reply to questions asked in the Parliament or a statement of government intentions, this man will distort ad infinitum. 
Last week at Question Time I asked the Prime Minister when he first discussed a further appointment with  Sir John  Kerr. He said to me: 
The offer of a particular appointment was made to  Sir John  Kerr very shortly before the announcement was actually made. 
In other words, the Prime Minister made the offer to him some time this year. But  Sir John  was looking over his present Paris apartments last June. I will quote from one of the newspapers. Laurie Oakes, writing in the Melbourne  Sun,  had this to say: 
According to Foreign Affairs Department sources, he - 
That is  Sir John  Kerr-  checked out the accommodation and facilities in the new Paris Embassy when he and Lady Kerr were there a month or two later on their mid-year overseas trip. 
The Governor-General announced his resignation about May. Later on he went to Europe and during the course of that trip looked over the Paris apartments he is presently occupying. Yet the Prime Minister had the effrontery to deceive the Parliament and say that he never discussed this matter with  Sir John  Kerr until a couple of days before the appointment. Quite obviously the appointment was sewn up last year. He bought off the Governor-General in order to get a dissolution which led to massive majorities in both Houses of Parliament. Despite what the Governor-General said in New Delhi about dissolutions of Parliament, the Prime Minister bought him off. This is the principle at issue. Not only is it divisive, it is plainly wrong. 
Let me quote another example of the Prime Minister's distortions not only to the Parliament but also to the nation. During the election campaign Paul Kelly of the  National Times  asked the 
Prime Minister in Perth about such an appointment. The direct words of the Prime Minister were that an appointment was not under contemplation in November. Yet  Sir John  Kerr had been to the Paris apartments in May. We find now, just after the election, that he has been given a sinecure. How can anybody take any notice of this Prime Minister? He is a congenital deceiver. He cannot tell the truth to Parliament, to the electorate in election campaign promises - 
Well,  Mr Speaker,  I will keep to the point. The appointment was exclusively his affair. He manipulated this man in 1975 and he manipulated him in 1977. 1 know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  who is at present sitting next to the Prime Minister, to his eternal credit and good sense fought the Prime Minister in Cabinet over this matter but the Prime Minister wanted to get his way. The Minister for Foreign Affairs did not like the appointment but, of course, he was crushed. The rest of the Cabinet, in the gutless fashion that we have become used to, of course knuckled under to the Prime Minister because they will want the odd appointment from the grand man when they decide to leave politics, as has  Senator Bob  Cotton and others. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was put down, crushed and pushed to one side by the numbers in the Cabinet. 
The disturbing fact which emerges from this situation is that this country is being run ruthlessly by one man. There is no power in this Government other than his power. There is no power in the front bench. It is a mediocre front bench which is led by a dominant Prime Minister who wants to run the Liberal Party through this personal appointments basis. The Prime Minister has more power than we see in any United States President. At least a United States President has to deal with his legislature. Even if the executive is with him he has to fight the legislature. This man has the legislature and the Executive all wrapped up right under his foot. 
We will see more and more division in the community throughout the life of his Prime Ministership. What is disturbing is the fact that he will go to any odds, even to the extent of buying off a Governor-General. There is no person more arrogant or more conceited with his power than this Prime Minister. He will take on any task. Nothing is too hot or too heavy, be it refusing Supply, ripping up conventions or buying off 
Governors-General. The Prime Minister will be in anything. He is an insensitive totalitarian toff and he will end up tearing the fabric of this country to pieces. He is a dangerous individual who, over time, will take Australia to the edge of civil strife. Honourable members opposite may sit back and smile but they should mark my words. In their hearts they know and believe what I am saying to be true. They all live in fear of him. 
The Prime Minister has made a mockery of our major institutions. He now has the former Governor-General, who should be above poll.tical appointments, serving in a sinecure in Paris that is not worthy of the man or, for that matter, any member of this place. This is a result of the chicanery of this Prime Minister. He is divisive. He can never be trusted to tell the truth in the Parliament or outside and the result- 
I withdraw. The result of the whole matter is that he has suborned a Governor-General and the office of GovernorGeneral is being dragged into disrepute because of him. 
-This Bill seeks to grant financial assistance to the States in connection with the development and management of national water resources. The express purpose of the Bill is to establish machinery for the provision of Commonwealth financial assistance to the States for water resource projects. The projects at the moment, of course, are administered by the States as the States have over time developed expertise in the management of water resource projects. The Bill seeks to authorise the payment of up to $2. 5m in the financial year 1977-78. A similar Bill was introduced last year before the Parliament was dissolved and therefore it has been reintroduced. The Bill presented last year sought authorisation to expend up to $lm from Consolidated Revenue in the financial year 1977-78 on New South Wales flood mitigation projects. But during the election campaign the coalition parties promised $ 1.5m to upgrade the Gin Gin channel of the Bundaberg irrigation scheme in Queensland and the additional $1.5m is reflected in this legislation bringing the total maximum appropriation to $2. 5m. 
The Opposition objects to the express purpose and not the nature of the legislation. This Bill envisages that there will be enabling legislation establishing the framework for the payment to the States of moneys provided under this legislation for water resource projects. Previously money was allocated on the basis of separate enactments which, of course, gave the Parliament the opportunity to debate each project. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  in his second reading speech said that the Government will table agreements and therefore the tabled agreements can be the subject of debate. We know that during the course of parliamentary business and debate legislation attracts much more scrutiny and attention from both sides of the House and officers of the Parliament. The Opposition and the Parliament generally would have a much greater opportunity to discuss and debate a particular water resource project during a second reading debate or a Committee stage debate than it would if agreements were tabled as proposed under this legislation. The Opposition seeks to have the legislation redrafted so as to provide for separate enactments for each project that is undertaken. I therefore move: 
That all words after ' that ' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'Whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill, the House is of the opinion that separate enactments should have been provided for each water resources project'. 
The history of water resource projects under the Labor Government was indeed a happy one. But it is not a happy one under the present Government. On 3 May last year the  Deputy  Prime Minister and present Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony),  in reply to a question on notice, said: 
The present Government does not have a program of assistance to the States for water projects. It is of the view - 
That is the Government is of the view-  that new Commonwealth-State financial arrangements should provide greater flexibility to the States in ordering their own priorities in water resource matters. 
On 17 August the Deputy Prime Minister made a statement which signalled the Government's abdication from participation in new water resource projects. He said: 
In the present difficult budgetary circumstances the Commonwealth will not be allocating funds for individual water resource projects. 
As the former Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  pointed out last year, the current Budget was the first Budget in 14 years which failed to allocate new moneys to new water resource projects. He went on to point out that in 1977, and now of course in 1978, the national government of the world's driest continent, a continent wracked by flooding on its eastern coast, played no part in planning or financing new water resource projects for the first time in nearly a generation. 
Contrast that with the performance of the Labor Government during its period of office. I might best illustrate the point by relating to the House the details of an answer given on 5 October 1977 to question on notice No. 1391 asked by the then Leader of the Opposition, the  Hon.  E. G. Whitlam. He asked what financial assistance was provided for each of a number of water resource projects by the Federal and State Governments in each financial year since 1968-69. The projects listed are the Emerald (Fairbairn Dam), the Bundaberg project, the Lower Dawson River weirs project, the Eton scheme including the Kinchant Dam, the Clare Weir project, the Proserpine flood mitigation project, the Ross River Dam and the Julius Dam. As an example, the Bundaberg project had nothing expended on it by the Liberals until 1970-71 when $1.9m was spent and in the following two financial years $3.2m and $4.4.m respectively were spent. Then the Labor Government came into office and a whole gaggle of projects were funded. For the first time the Lower Dawson River weirs scheme was funded in 1973-74 with $95,000 and in 1974-75 with $455,000. The Eton scheme received $387,000 in 1973- 74, $ 1.799m in 1974-75 and $ 1.999m in 1975-76. But in 1976-77 the allocation was down to $8 1 5,000. The same applies to the Clare Weir. There was no funding by the coalition parties; that began when the Labor Government came to office. An allocation of $100,000 was made in 1974- 75 and $349,000 in 1975-76. The situation was similar with other projects. The Proserpine flood mitigation scheme was first allocated moneys by the Labor Government in 1974-75 when it received $ 120,000. The Ross River Dam was first allocated funds of $ 1.4m by the Labor Government in 1975-76. It received nothing from the coalition. The Julius Dam had received nothing previously but in 1974-75 received $2m from the Labor Government of that time. The point I am making is that not only has the coalition been puny in the allocations to water resource projects but it is now also phasing out the kind of initiatives taken by the Labor Government throughout that period. 
Another example is the question of water treatment for Adelaide, which is of course the driest city in Australia. The expenditure in this area was reduced from $9.7m in the 1975 Budgetthe last Whitlam Budget- and $9.4m in the 1976 to $6m in the 1977 Budget. God knows what will be provided in the next Budget. 
Adelaide hoc been politely forgotten Across the .-------- - ----- 1---- - v - o-------------- - whole range of projects in the light of the statement last year of" the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony),  whose Government does not have a program of assistance to the States for water projects, we do not see much hope for the grand initiatives of the Labor Government in this field. It is true that an additional $1.5m is being granted in this legislation to finalise the Gin Gin channel of the Bundaberg irrigation scheme. But that scheme involves a total accumulated expenditure of towards $20m and the $ 1.5m is to complete it. Of course that would not have been offered but for the fact that during the election campaign the coalition wanted to pull a few rabbits out of the hat. In Queensland this was a popular promise to make. In the legislation which was introduced shortly before the Parliament was dissolved there was no mention of the Gin Gin channel or the $1.5m. It has mysteriously crept in after the election campaign. While we support that expenditure, I indicate the shallowness of the Government's attitude to this whole question of water resource management. 
My party has had a continuing commitment of financial assistance to the States for a whole range of civil matters and works. Of course water resources was given a high priority among them. It is the view of this side of the House that this should be the case and that the Government should be initiating new projects. There is no point in talking about general purpose grants to the States. They will decide their own priorities and they will not always be the kind of priorities we would like to fix in this national Parliament. Hence we provide specific purpose grants. The Opposition does not want to surrender the right of scrutiny of those pieces of legislation by simply having the tabling of agreements. We like to keep our eyes on  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  in Queensland and, for that matter, the other State Premiers of Australia to see that they are doing the right thing and that they are not, for instance, using water resource moneys under this legislation to featherbed, say, a particular industry which might be requiring the Government rather than itself to pay for some water management program in a particular area. We want to see that the money is properly spent in the real management of water resources which are the responsibility not of any private individual or of any private company but of the State. Therefore we should like to see separate enactments for each new agreement. 
All I can do is urge the Government to look much more sympathetically at the whole ques  tion  of  water resources, and  particulary  it.  should re-assess the Adelaide position so that Adelaide is not forgotten by the coalition in terms of the problems of water, salinity and the general problem of water supplies in South Australia, particularly in Adelaide which is of course reaching an acute stage. More funding must be made available to solve the problem. It just cannot be forgotten with this empty ploy of saying that this is a State responsibility. Lots of things were State responsibilities before the Whitlam Government was elected, but between 1972 and 1975 and afterwards it clearly emerged that a lot of things that we believed were the problems of the States were areas in which the Commonwealth became involved. Money was provided but of course management was left with the States. We saw a lot of progress which was not achieved previously because the money was not there. We want the Government to think harder about the question of water resources, to commit additional funds in the coming Budget and to nominate new projects for commencement in the budgetary year beginning on 1 July. 
In conclusion, the Opposition does not oppose the spirit of the legislation but it proposes this amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill urging the Government to abandon the concept of one enabling piece of legislation for the tabling of agreements in favour of the previous practice of introducing separate enactments for each new scheme. 
The Prime Minister will be aware from Press reports that book publishers, both in Australia and overseas, are vying for the publishing rights of  Sir John  Kerr's memoirs. Is it not a fact that the Government has sought legal advice with a view to preventing  Sir John  Kerr from publishing his memoirs and thus telling the full story of the events of 1975, specifically the role of the current Prime Minister in the weeks leading up to 11 November 1975? Does the Government intend to legislate to prevent the publication of memoirs? If so, will the legislation apply to all government officials or will it be limited to a gag on the former Governor-General? 
-The debate tonight concerns aspects of the AddressinReply Speech delivered by the GovernorGeneral on opening Parliament. The unfortunate fact is that the Speech basically underlines the intransigence of the Fraser Government's thinking. The Government is still unashamedly hanging on to the thesis that all is to be sacrificed in the cause of lowering inflation. Beyond that, there is no economic strategy. Unemployment is growing; the deficit is blowing out; the exchange rate is in peril; business confidence is in tatters. 
But what do we hear from the Government? Not a single proposal! The Governor-General's Speech reveals not one new idea. There is now no economic strategy. 
The magnitude of the election victory has stunned the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  like a formalin dart. He is a study in suspended animation. Australian economic policy is of course now frozen. To that extent there is no economic policy. It is a wait and see attitude. Let the market forces play their part in the economy and let us see what happens at the end. The Prime Minister's approach is to see whether we can live with that. What we need to do is to have a look at the history of the Government's economic policy and particularly its ad hockery since it was first elected in 1975. 
Firstly, we had from  Mr Fraser  an investmentled recovery. That was the way in which Australia was going to get moving. Under the Whitlam Government in 1975 the Hayden approach of a consumer-led recovery was thrown to one side. There was to be an investment-led recovery under the Fraser Government. The investment allowance was proposed. All stops were pulled out. What have we got? Of course there has been no recovery. All we have seen has been a pick up in investment which has been labour replacing and has produced more unemployment. Of course with demand languishing there has been no growth and no job creation. So, the investment-led recovery was promptly and politely dropped by the Government in favour of its second strategy- and that was the consumer-led recovery. 
Where is that recovery? Of course it achieved nothing and it has long since been dropped. Retail sales are still going through the floor; savings bank deposits are climbing; and the real value of wages has been constantly depressed by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission at the Government's behest. So, the second Fraser Government's economic strategy was politely abandoned. The level of unemployment, of course, is still rising rapidly. Because of the falling off in demand from those who were previously employed, there can be no hope whatsoever for any pick-up in consumerism in Australia while the Government continues with its present policies. 
After that we had the devaluation-led recovery. This was the third economic strategy. This is the policy that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  hatched up over one long weekend and dropped upon Australia without any notice. Of course this policy, like the other policies, smacks of the ad hockery which has distinguished this Government. We then witnessed the 17½ per cent devaluation followed by the humiliating process of the Prime Minister being bailed out by the committee headed by the Permanent Head of his own Department, the Reserve Bank of Australia and the Secretary to the Treasury. We saw a  W/i  per cent devaluation, 1 5 per cent, 1 4 per cent and finally it was reduced to 12 per cent. Now it is up around 15 per cent again. So of course that strategy was abandoned. We have seen no appreciable difference in the performance of the economy since the devaluation took place. 
Then there was the fourth economic strategythe prices and wages freeze strategy. That was to be the great recovery; the rabbit out of the hat. We remember the famous Premiers' Conference with Hamer and all the other Premiers on the steps of Parliament House trumpeting this great breakthrough in economic policy. He dropped it as somebody drops a bus ticket. At the Premiers' Conference the Prime Minister grasped the strategy with great gusto, but what happened? We saw the Government move away from it slowly over a period. When the Government realised that it was in tatters, that nobody was taking any notice of it, that it was unworkable, unmanageable, ill conceived and ill thought out it politely and quietly slipped away. Of course the media let the Government get away with it again. That was the fourth economic strategy. 
Finally, in the last election campaign we had the fifth economic strategy. This was the uranium export, mineral investment recovery strategy. We heard during the election campaign how uranium mining was going to save Australia's economic bacon; that there was to be a $ 15,000m mineral project recovery. This great investment recovery in the minerals sector was going to pull Australia out of the doldrums and we were going to move along the path to economic progress once again. But what was the truth of that? The truth is that no new projects are starting. There will be no new iron ore mined in Western Australia at least in the next four or five years. Only one major coal mining project in Queensland will start up in the immediate future. There will be only incremental expansion of these mines. What we will witness this year is a cutback in the quantity and value of exports from Australia particularly to Japan and also to Western Europe because of the languishing international economy. 
As well as that we have a depression in nonferrous metal prices which is seriously threatening the viability of nickel and other non-ferrous metal mines in Australia. Just a week or so ago we heard the news that the plants in Western Australia that have been pelletising iron ore are threatened and may have to close down because they cannot run at half capacity. They have to run at full capacity or not at all. So that is the great mineral recovery strategy of the Fraser Government, the fifth recovery strategy in two years. Where is it? It is in the sky with the rest of  Mr Fraser  'spies - 
Yes,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but the strategy is in that state. This is just another demonstration of the Government's ad hockery. What is the present state of the Australian economy? The reality is that Australia is jammed into an inflation rate of about 9 per cent. At the moment the real unemployment rate, taking in the hidden unemployment figures, is probably nearer 9.2 per cent. According to the official statistics provided to me by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library, in the month of January 1976 registered unemployment was 5.62 per cent and in January 1978, two years later, and in the two years since the Fraser Government took office, it was up to 7.2 1 per cent. If one considers the people who have not bothered to register for unemployment, according to the Bureau of Statistics quarterly labour force survey, one finds that the real unemployment rate is about 9.2 per cent, accompanied by a growth rate in the economy of about 1.4 per cent. The point is that there is no job creation and without job creation there can be no falling away of unemployment. With unemployment high, consumer confidence remains languishing where it is. 
So much for the great economic managers who continue to trumpet their capacity to deal with the problems of the economy, who have sacrificed all, who have torn down government outlays and reduced public amenities to bring inflation down by only two or three percentage points. Of course, most commentators and people interested in Australia's economic question now believe that the inflation rate is riveted firmly at 9 per cent. The most serious problem which the Government faces is getting the economy and Australia moving again. 
Interest rates were another one of the Government's red herrings. 
Oh, yes, they are coming down, with pressure from the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on the banks to reduce interest on savings bank deposits by half of one per cent. There is to be no decrease in respect of the trading banks, but the commitment is to a 2 per cent reduction in interest rates this year. The honourable member knows well that interest rates will not decline even by half of one per cent this year because without any reduction in the inflation rate there can be no reduction in the interest rates. I was one of the people who, in the days of the Labor Government, sat through a myriad of meetings with people from the Department of the Treasury looking at ways of artificially reducing interest rates and subsidising them. It just cannot be done. The price of money, like the price of every other commodity, is linked to the inflation rate. Despite the Prime Minister's phoney promise about a 2 per cent reduction in interest rates, it will not occur. So much for interest rates. 
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development said recently that there must be a reflationary policy for the Western economies, and they include Australia. Instead of that, what do we see from the Governor-General's Speech? We see more of the same- deflation, more unemployment and no light at the end of the tunnel. These are the policies of a government that promised to turn on the lights. All I can say is that it has taken a long time for the Prime Minister to get to the switch. He is grasping feverishly, tugging at every damned switch on the wall, trying to make one of them work. Of course he cannot. Australia is caught in an economic vice of continuing unemployment, a staggeringly high inflation rate and high interest rates. 
Another pressing problem is the question of the exchange rate. Neither the Prime Minister nor the Treasurer has indicated firmly where the Government stands on the exchange rate. They are not game to do so because they know that in the past we have had devaluation by stealth, a secret committee looking at the basket of currencies each day, moving the Australian dollar progressively downwards. Foreign investors who may be able to invest in this country and maintain some kind of equilibrium in the balance of payments will not put their money into Australia. Who will take a capital loss and invest in Australia when the Australian exchange rate is suffering from an acute balance of payments problem? There can be no pick up in capital inflow while this problem remains, with heavy borrowings by the Government to maintain the exchange rate. The real reason is that foreign investors have no confidence in the managerial expertise of the Fraser Government. As we saw from the OECD during the course of the election campaign, economies comparable with Australia have shown positive movements in all of their economic indicators far beyond anything which Australia has even hoped to achieve. At the moment we are looking more like a banana republic than one of the Western economies. 
What is continually aggravating the problem is the balance of payments question. What is the prospect for the balance of payments? The Government has been forced to borrow $2 billion to hold the exchange rate where it is, and the portents do not look good. As I mentioned earlier, iron ore exports will be down in both volume and value in this calendar year. The same applies to coking coal. The pellet plants in Western Australia are due to close if there is no change and if the minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  is not prepared to put a tough case when he goes to Japan in a week's time. We are faced with an ever-increasing bill for crude oil as our dependence upon Middle East and imported crude rises. The invisibles are climbing rapidly at an alarming rate. Freight, insurance and repatriated dividends are high. Because there is no reinvestment in the minerals sector the huge revenues lying around are being exported. All these things threaten the balance of payments and put pressure on the dollar. 
Let me refer again to the Bureau of Statistics bulletin of 9 February. I make the point in relation to the balance on current account that in the seven months ended January 1977 there was a deficit of $703m but in the seven months ended January 1978 there was a deficit of $ 1,354m, or twice as much. I refer to the net official monetary movements from July of last year to now. In July there was a deficit of $30 1 m; in August there was a deficit of $386m; in September there was a deficit of $49m; in October there was a surplusthe only one- of $71m; in November - 
Debate interrupted. 
In November there was a deficit of $76m; in December a deficit of $62m; and in January a deficit of $1 13m. There is no let-up in these figures. I refer to a report of a survey conducted by the Australian and New Zealand Banking Group. The report states, in part: 
On the question of Australia's balance of payments position, the survey said that overall the immediate outlook for Australia's balance of trade appeared reasonable as, after adjustment for seasonal influences, exports rose by 8.S per cent and imports fell by 2 per cent in the three months to January 1978 compared with the previous three months. 
However, the survey went on to say that net invisibles averaged a deficit of $2 80m in the seven months to January 1 978, which it considered to be well ahead of the present or likely future balance of trade surplus. 
Whether or not the balance of trade is good, what we are in fact witnessing, as a result of the invisibles, is a permanent balance of payments deficit which can be arrested only by a pickup of investment in Australia or a pickup in exports. What will happen if the exports pickup does not occur or if the investment into Australia does not come? What recourse will we have then and what is the position of the Government on the balance of payments? We hear very little from the Government about this matter. We heard in one flurry from the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  not long after his appointment about how he was going to stand by the dollar but we have heard no other commitments by the Government to maintain the exchange rate at its present levels. The Government cannot continue to borrow. 
What we may find in the long term is that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will be humiliated once again with problems with the exchange rate which could spill across to higher costs for imports and, of course, give a boost to domestic inflation or if not give a boost, at least maintain inflation at around 9 per cent or 10 per cent. That means that interest rates will stay frozen. It means that investment will stay down. It means that the building industry, which is the major employer in Australia, cannot get started again. It means there will be no investment in Australia from overseas. It means that the major mineral projects will not pick up again. This Government is locked into a stagnant Australian economy and there appears to be no respite at the end of the tunnel. 
Opposition members were disappointed when we heard more of the same in the GovernorGeneral's Speech, an outline of the Government's policy, about where Australia is going. Australia simply is going absolutely nowhere under this Government. This Government is just banking on the goodwill of the Australian people but its alibis have run out. In 1974 the Labor Government's alibis ran out concerning the McMahon Government and the Gorton Government but in 1977 this Government's alibis about the Labor Party have run out. This Government is on its own freight and is carrying out its own weight. If the Government continues in this way there will be no change in the economic portents and it will not be able to save itself. As well as being an incompetent government this Government is a seamy government as is evidenced by today's sad, sorry story about the Prime Minister's intervention on the IBM matter. The same applies to the Prime Minister's divisive appointment of  Sir John  Kerr. 
The Prime Minister is running Australia single-handedly. This is obvious at Question Time. He can answer in detail questions relating to the portfolios of every other Minister. He knows them backwards because he is involved in their affairs. He is running Australia singlehandedly and that means that he must be right all the time. All honourable members know that no one man can do this and survive. I say to honourable members on the other side of the House who give embarrassed smiles that their chances of maintaining themselves in office are becoming slimmer and slimmer with the performance of their Prime Minister but the real thing which will destroy them is the performance of the economy. Sadly for the Commonwealth, the Parliament and the nation the GovernorGeneral's Speech shed no light upon any changes. The magnitude of the election victory has convinced Government supporters that they are right. If it had been a smaller victory perhaps they would have changed their tune and switched their economic policy but they are locked into a' policy which will give Australia continuing economic stagnation, high inflation rates, high interest rates and, of course, a delayed economic recovery. The best thing that can happen for Australia is for the Government to get its act on and over and allow a decent party into office to manage Australia's fortunes once again. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Short)  adjourned. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That the Business of the Day be called on. 
It is,  Mr Speaker.  The House should recount the steps in the computer issue during the last week. The Opposition raised this matter last week by way of a motion which was rejected by the Government. A debate did not ensue. The Opposition did not raise it on Tuesday either by way of discussion of a matter of public importance or by any other substantive motion. What is the action of the Government? On Monday night the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had his Press Secretary creeping around the corridors giving out Government source Press briefings because the Prime Minister was concerned about the progress of the matter. On Tuesday, without any real coverage of the issue in the Press, the Prime Minister issued a long detailed statement forgetting the golden rule of politics: Never complain and never explain. He explained to the Parliament what had happened and how he was absolved of blame. 
Yesterday the Prime Minister came in with a brief to answer phoney questions about the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  which indicated that the Prime Minister had spent the night before studying details about the Leader of the Opposition when he was a Minister five years ago. So much for the Prime Minister's cursory interest in the issue. There is an old saying that dogs come back to their vomit, and the Prime Minister is coming back to the scene of the crime. He feels he must explain. 
The point I am making is that guilty men come back to the scene of the crime, and the Prime Minister has used all of these - 
I did not say the Prime Minister was guilty. I said: 'Guilty men come back to the scene of the crime'. The Prime Minister has spent the week dredging up an issue to try to malign the Leader of the Opposition. The real issue is this: Nothing happened in this matter until 2 December. On 23 September,  Mr Shann,  the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board, advised the Prime Minister that  Mr Harragan  was about to join Facom Australia Ltd. Five days later  Mr Yeend,  the Secretary to Cabinet, advised the Prime Minister that he should close off the present tenders and seek new tenders or at least reopen the tendering process. That advice is rejected. 
The Prime Minister then establishes a committee of departmental permanent heads. I ask honourable members to listen to the membership of that committee. It was composed of  Sir Arthur  Tange,  Mr Cole, Mr Cameron, Mr Lanigan  and  Mr Yeend.  They were to investigate whether  Mr Harragan  had influenced in any way the course of the tender. They reported that proper procedures had been followed and that therefore there was no need for fresh consideration of the proposal. That clears  Mr Harragan  of any improper influence in the decision. This is the point at issue, not the ethics or the politics of the matter. But the Prime Minister then goes on to berate this committee by saying that the assessment was too narrow. Surely these men considered the proprieties of this man's actions and considered whether he could have influenced the decision. Obviously, on the assessment he did not. The Prime Minister communicated this to  Mr Moyes.  The Prime Minister accepted this and said in his letter of 17 January to  Mr Moyes 
It therefore immediately established a committee of senior Permanent Heads under the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board to review procedures associated with the proposed acquisition. After consideration of all the facts the Permanent Heads concluded that the proper procedures had been followed and that there had been no impropriety. 
The Prime Minister stood by that decision in his letter to  Mr Moyes  of 1 7 January. What therefore is the factor which changed the Prime Minister's mind? Why has the Prime Minister now sought to denigrate the advice of the permanent heads and act against the spirit of his own letter? It is simply because IBM kicked over the traces. The company remembered the clear lesson of last year when International Telephone and Telegraph was knocked over by L. M. Ericsson Australia Pty Ltd in a tendering process for a Telecom Australia contract for $500m worth of equipment. It has been made known to the Prime Minister that the same thing will not happen in respect to IBM Australia Ltd. IBM will not let the tendering process take place without interference. The company will be right in there pushing its point of view. IBM obviously pushed that point of view on to the Prime Minister because he said in his letter of 1 7 January: 
Stemming both from your letter and from issues raised in these discussions concerning the viability of the project, all mainframe tenderers will receive a request from the Australian Government Stores and Tender Board for additional information . . . 
He goes on to say: 
In your letter you mentioned four particular concerns which you felt could affect the viability of the project. 
The reason the Prime Minister has upset the tenders has nothing to do with Harragan. As the Australian  Financial Review  points out today, there are at least half a dozen precedents this year of the nature of the Harragan one. The reason he has upset the tenders is because Moyes has put the spurs into him and the Prime Minister has reacted in Moyes ' favour. 
The Prime Minister talks about the committee of departmental permanent heads. He then says that another committee of permanent heads recommended that the tenders be reopened. That committee is composed of  Mr Shann, Mr Lawler  and  Sir Alan  Carmody. Only one of those gentlemen served on the other permanent heads committees. The previous permanent heads committee would not vary its statement to suit the Prime Minister and would not admit that its investigation was too narrow. Its members stood their ground and would not be suborned by the Prime Minister. So he has the permanent head of his own Department who was not on the first committee, the Secretary of the Department of Administrative Services and the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board make this recommendation. Yet we know that  Mr Barnett,  the Prime Minister's Press secretary, has been running around the corridors of Parliament House saying that the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board is the Japanese connection. That has come from the Prime Minister's office. The Prime Minister is denigrating his own  Chairman  of the Public Service Board.  Mr Shann  has reason to feel threatened. No wonder this committee has now recommended that new tenders be called. 
The Leader of the Opposition referred to a telex from Facom Australia Ltd. I want to reiterate the importance of this telex. The Prime Minister says quite clearly, as reported on page 46 1 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 7 March 1978: 
Following these letters, the  Chairman  of the Stores and Tender Board received further conflicting representations from IBM and Facom, including representations on 7 and 8 February respectively. At this stage a very real concern strengthened amongst our advisers- 
I emphasise the words 'strengthened amongst our advisers'-  that the shortened tender procedures which they had put to us unfairly favoured IBM. 
The Prime Minister is saying that this shortened tender procedure unfairly favours IBM. He went on to say: 
It was suggested that it was easier for IBM than Facom to meet the relatively short time limit for lodging revised tenders. 
But Facom says that on that day- that same day, 8 February- that it has accepted this timetable for the submission, as requested for supplementary data and that it feels it to be in the public interest. On what basis does this man come into the Parliament and tell us - 
You have allowed this kind of expression in other debates. I do not see why you must be meticulous with me. 
Why did this honourable member say in the Parliament that this procedure favoured IBM when Facom had accepted the procedure? Facom had said: 
We request your current reconfirmation that the submission date of February 13 will be enforced. 
That meant that it would be inviolate. Of course, it was not inviolate. On the very same day the Prime Minister said: 
On 8 February, the Permanent Heads of my Department and the Department of Administrative Services and the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board, contrary to the view previously expressed by officials - 
Not the same officials of course- unanimously recommended that the shortened procedures be abandoned and new tenders called. 
On the following day, 9 February, Cabinet endorsed this position. Yet on 8 February Facom had said to the Government that it agreed with the procedure. The only reason why Facom has been run over is pressure from IBM. The only reason the new tendering process has been called for is that it advantages IBM. I submit to the House that the reason for the Prime Minister's shenanigans with the briefings by  Mr Barnett  on Sunday night, his statement on Tuesday, his attacks on the Leader of the Opposition yesterday and the pitiful performance of the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  who is now hiding in the deepest depths of the back bench is that the Prime Minister feels threatened by the charges against him now appearing in every major newspaper. What we are contemplating is a gross public impropriety on the part of the Prime Minister. That the head of the Government in Australia can be considered in the public's view to be involved in the tendering process of government to the tune of a $ 1 7m contract must be unacceptable to the Australian Parliament and the Australian public. We on this side of the House have asked for nothing more than all the evidence to be given to the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  We accept the fact that this correspondence cannot be issued publicly but the Opposition should have the o. portunity to know what is going on. 
All these letters to which the Prime Minister referred on Tuesday night between himself, the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board and  Mr Yeend  do not affect the tendering process or the confidentiality of tender details. They are political matters between the Public Service and the Prime Minister which ought to be made public. Much of the evidence can be made public. The Prime Minister cannot hide behind the ruse that the documents will affect one tenderer or another. They are political matters which are the subject of parliamentary debate. They are impugning the integrity of the Prime Minister. We are entitled to see details of correspondence between the Prime Minister and various members of the Public Service. 
The Leader of the Opposition referred to the oral discussion on 22 December. Notes of that discussion must have been kept. Surely the Prime Minister keeps notes of these things? That, of course, is the turning point. Even the Moyes letter of 2 December saw no reaction from the Government. But after 22 December all hell broke loose. The Public Service had to jump into gear. The Permanent Heads Committee recommendation was dismissed. Its recommendations were pushed under the mat. The Committee was humiliated in the Parliament because the Prime Minister said its investigation was too narrow and therefore lacked credibility. Now new tenders are being called, to the disadvantage of Facom. IBM will be able to introduce new equipment with the extra time it has been given and it may have an advantage. The Prime Minister has provided that advantage. 
We on this side of the House clearly believe that the main issue is the Prime Minister's personal involvement in this matter. The Parliament and the Opposition are entitled to as much evidence as can be properly made available. Anything that may happen to be confidential could be made available only to the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. The Parliament could then see whether the present Prime Minister of Australia is worthy to hold that office. The Government should not try to turn this issue against an honest man, the Leader of the Opposition, with a motion by the honourable member for La Trobe which he could barely read, much less comprehend or argue. I have much pleasure in supporting the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I am now calling on the Prime Minister to state in his address to the Parliament whether he will make those letters available and whether he will give us the details of the conversation he had with  Mr Moyes  on 22 December. 
-The Opposition raises this matter of public importance because of the Government's failure to deal with the question of energy policy, research into and development of alternative energy sources, and a conservation policy for energy in Australia. The Government has now had over two years to contemplate the problems of energy policy in Australia. Yet all we have seen during those two years has been lipservice by a succession of government Ministers. Committees have been established, some of them comprising very good, interested and competent people. But their reports have fallen on deaf ears. They have only been alluded to by Ministers in parliamentary debates. Nothing has been accomplished. There has been an absolute dearth of hard decisions by the Government in respect of energy policy. 
By contrast, in the United States of America, the Carter Administration, within six months of taking office, was presenting hard legislation to the Congress. It has been the source of much debate there. While some of the measures have been unsuccessful, the result has been a comprehensive approach to energy being taken by the administration of that country. As I have said, this is in sharp contrast to the situation in Australia where, of course, there is this malaise in government thinking. 
The problems are quite complex. The most disturbing problem is Australia's dependence upon a dwindling reserve of indigenous crude oil. At the moment about 70 per cent of Australia's oil comes from indigenous sources. But by 1985- and that is not so far away- the position will be reversed, with approximately 70 per cent being imported and 30 per cent coming from indigenous fuel. So there is a need to direct government policy towards changing this situation. In two years of the Government's tenure of office there has been only a modest improvement in oil exploration activity. More must be done in this field. There is but a handful of drill ships offshore. If one accepts the premise that the areas of greatest prospect are offshore, then more needs to happen in this regard. More rigs need to be operating off the Australian coast so that deep water drilling in particular can take place. At the moment our rigs are only partially occupied, and only a year ago a couple of rigs were lying idle in ports around the coast. So even if we were to have the good fortune of finding another reserve of oil offshore, it would take approximately eight years to bring it on-stream. No matter whether we strike it lucky in the near future or later, there will be a serious gap in Australia's capacity to supply oil for its own purposes from its indigenous reserves. We will have to rely on imports, with all the havoc that will wreak not only upon our balance of payments but also upon our own independence in energy. 
The same malaise in government thinking exists in respect of natural gas. Natural gas represents for Australia a great opportunity as an alternative fuel. Yet there has not been one glimmer of hope, not a mention from the Government side as to a natural gas policy as a complement to a total energy policy. The Government thinks all it has to do is approve the export of liquid natural gas from the North West Shelf venture in Western Australia and that will amount to the totality of its gas policy. There has been no real assessment of natural gas demand in Australia, of how the usage of natural gas should be encouraged or of where it should be encouraged. There has been no discussion and no policy on the pricing relationships between natural gas and oil. These matters have been left untouched. 
There should have been an attempt by the Commonwealth to sit down with the States and hammer out a proper fuel policy, particularly with respect to natural gas. I refer in particular to the natural gas now entering the Sydney market- the largest potential market in Australiafrom the gas fields in Moomba, South Australia. This should have acted as a catalyst for getting the Government off its tail to sort out a policy with the States. Instead, we find this ludicrous position where the oil companies are still discounting fuel oil to try to keep natural gas out of the Sydney market and to limit its penetration. From memory, natural gas accounts for about 8 per cent of Australia's energy utilisation. The world average is about 2 1 per cent. It is likely that by about 1990, if we work at it, our average could be 15 per cent to 20 per cent. At the moment there is no gas policy for Australia. The Government is apparently not interested in it. Not one potential on-shore user of North West Shelf gas would have any clue as to the Government's thinking on a natural gas pricing policy. This means that none of the possible users of gas in the Pilbara area or in any of the industrialised centres of Australia can plan ahead for future projects, whether they involve the upgrading of minerals to secondary processing or the use of gas as furnace fuel. There is no clarity of thinking on the part of the Government in respect of natural gas pricing. 
There should be an encouragement to upgrade natural gas exploration. There is always talk about exploring for oil. That is easy to talk about. But everybody forgets about natural gas exploration. Natural gas would seem to be a good prospect for Australia. If exploration companies are to be believed, the North West Shelf has mature stratas that could be explored successfully for natural gas. They would provide for Australia much greater energy independence than we have at present. The Commonwealth has control over offshore territories of Australia by virtue of the Seas and Submerged Lands Act; yet it is quite disturbing to find that the Government of Western Australia is giving away tenements with mature drillable structures to foreign companies when they should be going to Australian companies. I instance the Getty oil and allied chemical groups tenement which was given to that group in preference to an Australian company. Natural gas exploration is something that ought to be encouraged. The North West Shelf is a prospective area and we could improve Australia's energy independence because of it. 
Let me deal now with liquid petroleum gas which is something that has been forgotten in energy terms in Australia. A policy on liquid petroleum gas would have been the Government's easiest initiative since coming to office. The Government has been in office for over two years. When it took office it had the opportunity of considering the report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum headed by  Mr Justice  Collins. The sixth report of that Royal Commission made clear recommendations as to the penetration of liquid petroleum gas into the Australian motor vehicle fleet market. I quote a couple of paragraphs from this report. On page 9, the report states: 
Only LPG is a feasible substitute for motor spirit between now and 1 990. Yet granting all the dedication that successive governments have applied to the national retention of indigenous crude oil, no part of any similar dedication seems to have been applied to LPG. Not merely a similar, but in transportation terms directly substitutional national resource to the nation's crude oil resource has thus year after year been exported as if it was self-renewing. 
The lack of a recognisable energy policy has resulted in the Bass Strait fields being administered as to natural gas and LPG, substantially as a local or Victorian resource. For natural gas it has meant that the Victorian-Sydney pipeline has not been built and at a greatly increased cost very much much more expensive natural gas has been brought to New South Wales . . . 
The report at page 7 says: 
Australia has LPG in quantities far exceeding current or reasonable projections as to future local demand. The key issue in terms of public policy is how this surplus production of 1½ to 2 million tonnes per year in the 1 980 's may be best disposed of in the interest of the nation as a whole. Past policies or lack of policies have led to a situation where almost all LPG produced from Australian oil and gas fields is exponed at prices which as a result of the 1973 crude oil price rises, give the producers windfall profits. These prices which are higher than local prices fixed by the Prices Justification Tribunal remove all incentive to create a local market. Why turn LPG into a local market at $67 a tonne when Japan will pay more than $90 a tonne f.o.b.? 
In other words, it is saying that the deficiency in Government policy has meant that the Bass Strait producer- Esso-BHP- has had this quiet windfall with LPG which is being exported to Japan at world market prices without any attempt by the Government to encourage or to establish a domestic market for LPG. 
Liquefied petroleum gas is, of course, a clean fuel. While most of the petrol stations throughout Australia do not have the facilities to supply LPG, it is a first class fuel for vehicle fleets which return to depots where they can be supplied with it. These include taxi fleets, bus fleets, municipal garbage vehicles and all the various civil vehicle fleets which operate in this country. Indeed, Army vehicles could use LPG to the extent that it could be a substantial complement to other liquid fuels. At the moment the use of LPG is being overlooked. We have heard absolutely nothing on it from the Government. In the report presented last year by the National Energy Advisory Authority on a policy for conservation of energy it mentioned this point; the Government has done nothing about it. 
Let me deal briefly with coal policy. There should be an assessment of the high vitrinite bitumenous coal for coal making and conversion to oil and gas, but this has not been done. The Government seems to be disinterested in coal. The totality of its coal policy is concerned with what it can export by way of coking coal and steaming coal. It has failed to look at a coordinated policy on coal exploration and development. The New South Wales Joint Coal Board report- which is put out by the Commonwealth and New South Wales- has no writ whatsoever in Queensland. We can find no definitive information about Queensland 's coal resources. Even the Joint Coal Board has not access to Queensland. These matters ought to be attended to as a matter of urgency; and they have not. We need to upgrade coal mining recovery rates. We need to look at mining techniques. This is another area which has been ignored. 
Time is running out, so I will now deal specifically with the question of fuel conservation. While the Government has talked about energy conservation, it has done very little about it. It could take a number of important steps without great resistance. Firstly it could set fuel economy targets for vehicles produced in Australia. This could be done without upsetting motorists or manufacturers. This could substantially conserve fuel which would otherwise be lost through the exhaust or wasted as heat dispersed through the radiator. At present no fuel economy targets are being set for Australian car manufacturers. Traffic and transport planning ought to be high on the priority list of any government that is interested in energy conservation. Other aspects that come to mind include the shipment of major heavy commodities between the various capital cities particularly between east coast cities by rail. The electrification of our railway systems is possible and electrification can be fed by electricity generated from the coal seam that exists right down the east coast of Australia. Therefore, traffic and transport planning ought to be a must for the Government. 
Another requirement is the development of a strategy for energy efficient vehicle systems. We should be looking at new vehicle systems which are much more energy efficient than the present ones. Most importantly, a comprehensive national fuel pricing policy must be developed. This can be developed only after consultation with the States. In current circumstances, industry is not sure which way to move if it wants to make new capital investment because there is no clarity of thinking on the part of the States and the Commonwealth in the corporate sense as to the price of various energy commodities. So, wrong investment decisions are made because at a certain time in history one commodity is cheaper than another. 
The feasibility of blending synthetic fuelsthat is, the production of ethanol from cropswith motor spirit is another possibility that the Opposition thinks is worthy of study. At the moment hardly any research is being done in this area. The problem with research into alternate energy in this country arises because all that is undertaken is small research efforts which are largely unco-ordinated. The Australian Labor Party policy on energy agreed to in Perth in 1 977 deals comprehensively with the method by which we would introduce a co-ordinated and well funded research effort. We see the opportunity of imposing a secondary profits tax on energy commodities to raise sufficient funds to manage a major energy research effort in Australia. Australia is blessed with first class researchers who are not adequately supported or co-ordinated. The Opposition believes that the Government has failed in the formulation of energy policy, including the conservation and research and development policy. It is time that the Government brought down a statement outlining a comprehensive policy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Tonight I wish to raise a matter which involves a constituent of mine and the Commonwealth Police. At face value it is quite disturbing. I should like it brought to the attention of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers),  who is, of course, resident in the Senate. The constituent is a  Mrs Maria  Master, a 59-year-old widow who is an Australian resident borne in Australia of Indian parents and who is a nursing educator at Bankstown Hospital, which is in my electorate. She arrived at Sydney Airport on 4 March last from India on Alitalia flight 760. She sought messages from the Alitalia staff, who told her that no messages were there for her. She was then forced to ring people and ask them to pick her up at the airport. They indicated that messages had been left. 
My constituent then went back to a member of the Alitalia staff on duty and asked her to take her to the manager, whereupon the girl led her along a corridor to a room and said to the people in the room: 'This woman is harassing me'. Unknown to my constituent the room contained Commonwealth Police in plain clothes. Someone from the room said to my constituent: 'You come with me'. When my constituent was not persuaded by that invitation the person said to her. 
Do you want to stay in the country?' The Commonwealth Police then physically manoeuvred her into a room and she was then abused and questioned. In the course of this she said to the Commonwealth policewoman and policemen on duty: 'Do you realise that such treatment constitutes an assault?' In the course of being managed into the room she fell over and damaged her back. She already has disc lesions and has undergone major cancer surgery. Of course, this occurrence has had an upsetting effect upon her because she is 59 years of age. 
Without establishing the nature of her complaint or dealing with her courteously, her passport was taken from her, her personal effects were demanded, her cosmetics case was confiscated and the articles were spread on the floor. She was then questioned about notations in her dairy, where she obtained her money, place names she had noted in her diary, the people mentioned and her place of work. When she objected to the course of questioning the Commonwealth policewoman referred to her as a bitch. At another stage in the proceedings- I have obtained this information from the constituent; it needs to be checked out and I think it ought to be- her handbag was wrenched from her shoulder and the contents were thrown on to the floor. 
When the police got down to the detail of the case and realised that she was an Australian resident and not an immigrant they telephoned her friends in Punchbowl and her supervisor at Bankstown Hospital, Sister Taplin. My constituent said that she was embarrassed by this because the matron is not her keeper, though she is her employer. My constituent was half-way through a period of long service leave and virtually had to account to her employer at Bankstown Hospital for this procedure at Mascot Airport and her involvement with the Commonwealth Police. She has since contacted the Commonwealth Police and Inspector Burrows- I think that is his name- tried to explain to her that the police were trying to help her and eventually got her home. She said that that was the kind of help she could have done without. She has been a cancer patient and has had cause to have major cancer surgery. In a letter to me, which I can give the Minister, her doctor wrote: 
I have no doubt of the physical and mental stress to which she was subjected. May I point out to anyone who may be unaware of the fact that physical and mental stress in a cancer patient is well known to lead to a renewed spread of cancer and if this lady, as a result of her mishandling, develops either of these symptoms those responsible for her ill treatment are going to be gravely responsible. 
That was written to me by  Dr Peter  Reay- Young from The Prince of Wales Hospital in New South Wales. At face value this is a disturbing case. It should be investigated by the Minister or by the appropriate authority in the Commonwealth Police. I should like to see a proper investigation, not a whitewash, by an officer of the Commonwealth Police to see that this kind of thing never happens again. The Commonwealth could be held liable for any damages which may have been caused to my constituent as a result of this incident and the continuing stress and anguish which, of course, is natural in a woman of her age being so brutally and callously treated upon arrival back in her own country. 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Has the Government prepared a model nuclear safeguards agreement? Is this agreement presently in the hands of a number of foreign governments? Will the Minister table the model agreement forthwith so that the Australian Parliament may be apprised of the approach that the Australian Government is taking with potential uranium customers? 
-The Prime Munster  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has failed to exonerate himself- 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
Not one Minister will defend the Prime Minister. Not one Minister will speak on his behalf. 

 The bells having rung- 


 Mi SPEAKER-The House is dividing on the substantive motion moved by the Leader of the 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr),  said that I and other members on this side of the House were against rural Australia. The Opposition is not opposing the Bill but is supporting the amendment. The amendment points out that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has failed to introduce legislation in line with his election promise. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this legislation but does seek to amend it. This legislation is a consequence of a promise made by the coalition parties during the last election campaign. I will take the time to point out how that promise has been abrogated in the clear intent of the legislation. Basically, the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Amendment Bill is designed to subsidise freight differentials in the transport of petroleum products. The scheme will subsidise freights so that country consumers will pay no more than 4c a gallon of the transport costs. The scheme is estimated, roughly, to cost between $35 and $36m. It is virtually a reintroduction of the scheme which operated up until 1974 at which time it was cancelled by the Labor Government. The scheme is now introduced with the intention of limiting the freight costs for the carriage of petroleum products to rural areas in Australia. 
The Bill has a number of novel features. One is that distributors must enter into an agreement with the Commonwealth to pass on the full benefits of the subsidy. In other words, they cannot just absorb it into their cost structures and therefore inflate their profits. Of course what can happen is that any discounting which is presently taking place can be varied so that a distributor can absorb the benefits of the subsudy and thereby reduce the benefits of any discounts by the amount of the subsidy. However, this scheme is not the scheme promised by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  This is important inasmuch as it is a sleight of hand on the part of the Government to have promised something and not honour that commitment. Let me read from page 11 of the Prime Minister's policy speech. Under the heading 'Petrol Price ' he says: 
Immediately after the election the Government will take action to equalise the price of petroleum products between city and country, without adding to city prices. 
For a start, this Bill does not attempt in any way to equalise prices; it is but a subsidy for transport costs. The Prime Minister continued: 
This will be done by subsidising freight costs outside the metropolitan area on motor spirit, aviation fuel, automotive distillate and power kerosene. In effect, it will reintroduce the country freight differential scheme abandoned by the Labor Government. 
The scheme will bring country prices down initially to less than one cent per litre (4 cents per gallon) above city prices - 
That is a commitment to effect a 4c differential between city prices and country prices. This Bill does not do so; it is only a subsidy for transport costs. The policy speech continues:  . . . and to less than half a cent per litre (2 cents per gallon) in the life of the new Parliament. 
It was stated that the scheme was estimated to cost around $10m in 1977-78, around $31m in 1978-79 and around $50m in the three years. The point is that the Prime Minister has broken another election promise. This man, who is now famous for wilfully and wantonly breaking election promises, has broken an important election promise to rural Australians- a promise to equalise city and country prices within a limit of 4c a gallon. This scheme makes no pretention whatsoever to do that. It is only a scheme to subsidise freight costs. Really there is no such thing as city prices. The Bill does not attempt in any way to deal with the discounting of petroleum products in rural areas. 
I suppose many honourable members are aware of the fact that in many cities petrol is retailing at less than wholesale prices approved by the Prices Justification Tribunal. In that sense there is no such thing as a city price. Because the Bill is silent on the question of the discounting of petroleum products, not only in rural areas but also in the cities, it in no way can effect an equalisation between city and country prices to within 4c a gallon or anything else. All it does is subsidise the cost of transport beyond the point of 4c a gallon. 
The Bill does nothing about the root cause of the problem; that is, the inadequacy of the distribution system in country areas of Australia. It does nothing whatsoever about refining capacity, petrol discounting, or the petroleum marketing and distribution industry. It is simply a band-aid proposal by the Government to try to drag back some votes in rural Australia. If the Government wanted to look at such a scheme fairly it would look at all the questions of distribution and marketing. Then if it wanted to act in a manner which was equitable for the rural community it would probably introduce something like zone allowances and things which are equated to taxable income through the taxation system and not a move such as this proposal which of course could provide for a subsidy going to the largest consumers of petrol in rural Australia- the large companies like Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd and Comalco Ltd which could be beneficiaries under this scheme. 
It is true that under the legislation the Minister can decide otherwise and exclude some companies from the scheme, but by and large there is no equity in this measure. The benefits will go just to those who use the product, no matter what is their economic situation. That is not to say that there is not some justice in rural people being advantaged by a subsidy in terms of transport costs, but the point is that this scheme does not apply equitably or fairly. Also, I think it needs to be remembered that the Government's bona fides on petrol prices for rural Australia do not stand up to scrutiny. Last year it made the decision to increase the price of petrol in Australia by Ilea gallon. The beneficiary of that by and large is Esso-BHP in Bass Strait. It will receive what virtually amounts to an untied grant. Esso and BHP will have their group profits inflated by the amount of the subsidy, the only clawback. being payment of company tax. 
As we are well aware, in each of the next four years there will be a 10c a gallon increase in the price of petrol. So between last year and four years' hence there will be a 50c a gallon increase in the price of petrol and other petroleum products in Australia generally, but particularly in the countryside where the costs of fuel on agricultural inputs are harrowing for the farming and grazing communities. Therefore, rather than the Government having a sympathetic approach to rural Australia in terms of transport costs it has grossly inflated them to the almost exclusive advantage of Esso and BHP with some of the other smaller producers taking the balance of the funds made available by way of the increase in the price of crude oil. So much for the Government's crocodile tears about rural Australia and its attempts to assist the people there by subsidising freight costs. 
The other important fact which needs to be remembered is that this subsidy will rarely go to the large provincial towns. Because of the large volume throughput of the large centres the unit costs per gallon of distillate or petrol are reduced. Unless freight costs transcend 4c a gallon no subsidy is paid. Most provincial towns like Orange and Bathurst in New South Wales, Rockhampton and Townsville in Queensland and Geelong in Victoria will get nothing from this scheme whatsoever. Of the 10,000-odd locations throughout Australia other than in the capital cities where there are distribution points for petroleum approximately only 52 per cent will receive a subsidy on motor spirit, mainly because of bulking of fuel which results in low transport costs per unit cost or per gallon. In only one-third of the locations or about 3,300, will the subsidy be more than lea litre and in only 25 per cent of the locations will the subsidy be between 0.1c and 0.9c a litre- that is half a cent to 4c a gallon. 
So the Government is not doing much for rural Australia when one gets down to the crunch. The big provincial towns will get nothing. Places where there are fairly large gallonage throughputs because of bulking and the reduction of unit costs, unless the costs are beyond 4c a gallon, will receive nothing. In only 25 per cent of cases will the subsidy be between 0.1c and 0.9c a litre. In only one-third of the locations within Australia will the subsidy be more than lc a litre. So the Government has taken much more on the one hand with an increase in the price of crude oil than it is giving on the other by way of this miserable, shabby scheme which is being reintroduced exclusively for the advantage of the National Country Party and some of the elements of the Liberal Party which hold rural seats throughout Australia. Let us make that point abundantly clear. 
We did not hear the Prime Minister during the election campaign trumpeting the fact that petrol costs will rise by 50c a gallon throughout Australia. The only reference to petrol was a reference to an equalisation scheme for freight. When the Bill finally comes into the House it does not even provide that; it provides only for a subsidy of transport costs beyond 4c a gallon. So shame on the Prime Minister and the Government for such a blatant deception and for breaking yet another clear election promise. There are a number of other aspects of the scheme which the Government has introduced. It shall be beyond ministerial control to unmake the scheme without the approval of both Houses of Parliament. Presumably this provision has been introduced into the legislation so that a successive government cannot remove the scheme or vary it by ministerial action without the approval of both Houses of Parliament. 
The honourable member should also remember that two can play that game. Before the last election the Government rushed in with a 10-year extension of the agreement with the United States of America communication bases and before the 1972 election the then Government rushed in with a 7 -year extension of the two-airline policy. The Government is trying to continue to tie the hands of successive governments, to deny them their proper administrative prerogatives. 
It is not rubbish at all. It is as plain as day. We on this side of the House are not lacking in ingenuity to do the very same things to the Government. So do not think there is anything novel about it. Two can play that game. Let us make this point clear. It is a government's role to decide upon the validity of these schemes or otherwise and it ought to be a government's role to unmake them if necessary. We on this side of the House share the traditional view about the Government's rights in money matters. Honourable members opposite do not, as they demonstrated by the refusal of the passage of the 1975 Budget. We think this provision in the Bill is improper. While the procedure resembles the procedure for the passing of regulations where they are laid on the table and are either agreed to or disallowed I still believe this matter ought to be within the prerogative of the Minister and not the Houses of Parliament as such. At this point I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'Whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that the Bill: 
fails to- 
implement the election promise of the Government "to equalise the price of petroleum products between city and country", and 
improve the adequacy of the existing petroleum marketing and distribution system in country areas, and 
is silent on the defects in the system outlined in the 4th Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum'. 
The Government has taken money from rural producers and people in the rural community by way of massive increases in the price of crude oil. The sole beneficiaries of that action are two of the largest companies in Australia. The Government has now introduced a Bill which is a clear abrogation of an election promise to make the differential between city and country petrol prices no more than 4c. In that sense the Government has failed to implement what was a clear election promise. In the Bill it has done nothing to improve the adequacy of the existing petroleum marketing and distribution system and it has blatantly disregarded advice tendered by the reports of the Collins Royal Commission on Petroleum. All in all, it is a very sad performance on the part of the Government if this is the best of which it is capable in trying to give some measure of justice to the people who live in distant areas and who live under the hardships or, as they say, the tyranny of distance from the capital cities. 
I commend to the House the Opposition's amendment and I urge Government supporters at least to be honest enough to admit that the scheme is not a reflection of the promise thenparties made at the last election; it is an abrogation of a clear election promise. It does nothing to solve the real problems at hand. The scheme in itself does not give any advantage to the large provincial cities of Australia. It gives advantage only to those very distant locations beyond the provincial cities and then only in small proportions. In not more than 25 per cent of those locations will there be a subsidy of lc or more a gallon. Big deal! So much for election promises! Rural Australia can make its own value judgments about the Government's bona fides in purporting to assist it. I conclude by urging the House to give careful consideration to the value and justice of the Opposition's amendment. 
-The House will be pleased to receive the reports of the Australian Science and Technology Council. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  mentioned two reports, the first dealing with specific references from the Government on the Landsat satellite, atmospheric research and Australia's flora and fauna. The second report deals with the question of Australia's energy policy and seeks advice from ASTEC as to the way in which such a research and development policy should be administered. The Opposition has not had the benefit of a prior look at the reports, but from the Prime Minister's statement it is obvious that the reports have drawn on evidence submitted to the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources in its inquiry on solar energy and the reports presented to ASTEC by the Australian Institute of Engineers. At this time I must take time to compliment both those bodies for the comprehensive and valuable nature of those reports. 
The Opposition naturally is pleased to see any progress by the Government on energy matters to date. Since the Government was elected in December 1975, we have seen little progress in terms of firm action by the Government in the formulation of an energy policy. Committees have been established and reports have been presented, ad nauseam, which then seem to find themselves locked away in some Minister's desk, never to see the light of day. I made the point recently that whilst the Government has been in office for well over two years there has been no firm energy policy announced, yet in the United States after merely six months in office the Carter Administration had a whole package of conservation and general energy development proposals before the American Congress. The fact that both governments were elected virtually simultaneously indicates clearly the malaise in the thinking of this Government in relation to this important question of energy. The only firm policy announcement we have heard from the Government was the announcement made by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  a couple of weeks ago in respect of the utilisation of liquid petroleum gas in Australia. This is welcomed. It is only a minute part of the kind of policy Australia clearly needs at this time. 
By contrast, the Opposition has thought long and hard about the question of energy. Its policy was written and articulated clearly at the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party in Perth in July 1977. The reports of that Conference have been presented. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  'the section of the reports dealing with energy research and development policies. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-In the policy we envisaged the establishment of a national fuel and energy commission. Because of the limitation of time I will not read out the functions of that commission, but item (ii) of the policy states that the Commission will: in co-operation with the Australian Science and Technology Council, be responsible for the national co-ordination and Federal funding of energy research and development in 
Australia, including particular research relating to coal conversion and solar energy, and determine an order of priorities for such research. The Fuel and Energy Commission will provide the Australian Government with detailed knowledge of existing energy research programs and of the resources available in Australia to carry out the greatly expanded research and development effort necessary to ensure that Australia has access to the new technologies necessary for the development of alternative energy sources at the appropriate time . . . 
The point is that, even on a casual observation of this policy, it is obvious that my party has thought long and hard about this matter. We are over a year and a half ahead of the Government in its thinking. The Government still has not formulated any clear machinery by which it can establish permanent co-ordination and funding of a research effort in Australia. More importantly, there is the immediately emerging problem of the deficiency of crude oil in Australia, which I think is Australia's most pressing energy problem. As honourable members know, at the moment Australia receives 70 per cent of its crude oil from indigenous sources and 30 per cent is attributable to imports. Yet by 1985, if no new oil fields are found, the reverse will be the case. Thirty per cent will be coming from indigenous sources and there will be a 70 per cent reliance on imports. This lack of energy independence and the cost to our balance of payments and the parity of our currency will be very severe indeed for this country. Even if we were to find a large oil-bearing structure today and decided this very day to start development, it would take eight years to bring such a development on stream. So it would be 1986 before we saw any tangible benefits from a discovery today and a policy to move on today with development. 
Again, in the area of natural gas there has been a malaise in government thinking. The Government thinks it is sufficient to give the goahead to the North West Shelf project when it ought to be an objective of government policy to raise the utilisation of natural gas in Australia to reasonable levels. At the moment gas utilisation runs at about 8 per cent of Australia's total energy picture, whereas the world average is around 2 1 per cent. This seems a sensible policy as it looks as though Australia will have sufficient quantities of natural gas for the foreseeable future. It is a direct replacement for oil and particularly for imported oil, being heavy gravity oil, where the heavy end products are presently used for burning in industry. So natural gas can provide a real substitute. Yet there is no direction of government policy towards upgrading natural gas exploration. It is regarded as a spin-off from oil exploration. There have been no real endeavours to make sure that a coherent gas policy is developed for Australia. 
The other issue which the Government must be attending to shortly is the implementation of a conservation policy. If we cannot find oil the sensible thing to do is not to use so much of what we have. We on this side of the House believe that the Government ought to be attending to fuel economy targets for motor vehicles. Australian motor manufacturers are not required to meet any fuel economy targets, whereas their counterparts in other parts of the world have been required to do so for a long time. Again, the Government seems to be languishing in the development of a policy towards energy efficient vehicles. Given the size of this continent and the distances between the capital cities, one would have believed that this would have been a priority. The point is that the Government has done very little about energy. What we need is a quite massive research and development effort. 
I make the point again that the Labor Party has said that, in government, it will establish an energy research and development fund under the administration of the national fuel and energy commission, to be substantially financed from moneys collected under the proposed secondary profits tax flowing from energy production, to enable the vital research and development of alternative energy technology to be carried out. What we need is a well funded and co-ordinated research effort into alternative energy technologies. We have never had that. To date the Government has received reports and has sat on them. We hope that the fine work by the Australian Science and Technology Council will be taken note of by the Government and that it will be the forerunner to a clear definition in this House very shortly of the Government's energy policy. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hodges)  adjourned. 
-The Opposition has raised this matter of public importance today because of the current sorry state of Australia's international trade, in particular the calamitous position that has been reached in Australia's trading relations with Japan. The responsibility for this situation rests solely on the shoulders of the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony).  No longer can he shelter behind the international gaffes and embarrassments caused by his Liberal Party and National Country Party colleagues,  Sir Charles  Court and  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  on their recent constitutionally illegal safaris to Japan. Nor can the Minister shy away from the blame for the abortive foreign policy initiatives taken by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in recent months culminating in the sugar negotiations and the Facom affair both of which have done great harm to Australia 's relations with Japan. 
The depths to which the Deputy Prime Minister has fallen in the eyes of the Australian people, the media, the mining industry and his own Party were illustrated clearly last Monday night in his sorry attempt to justify his recent 10-day visit to Japan. When talking of the difficulties facing the iron ore and coal industries the Minister claimed, as his only credit, that it was he and he alone who forced the Japanese steel mills to adopt a policy of maintaining existing stockpiles of iron ore and coal as a means of preventing cutbacks for Australian iron and coal producers. 
This is what he told a very sceptical Mining Industry Council dinner 
I argued strongly Tor the retention of existing stockpile levels, not only of iron ore and coal but also of pig iron, scrap steel and coke . . . The mills gave me an assurance that they would hold their stocks of iron ore and coal at current record levels- and this was the first time such an assurance had been given. 
Yet in Japan when the  Deputy  Prime Minister floated this so called achievement to the Press, the Press quickly discovered by talking to Japanese officials that this policy had been decided by the Japanese steel mills before  Mr Anthony  arrived and was not the result of any advocacy on his part. At any rate the  Deputy  Prime Minister failed to impress the miners in the audience last Monday. 
The attitude of the Fraser-Anthony Government in its foreign policy and trading relations with Japan is to run hot in public and cold in private. It is ironical that these two men would use every opportunity to bucket the intiatives of the former Labor Government in a most unwholesome way when they were in Opposition, yet in Government, have twisted Labor policy to suit their own ends. It was the Liberal-Country parties in Opposition that coined the phrase resource diplomacy' in relation to Labor's successful attempts to increase both price and tonnage for Australian resource exports. Labor's objective was to see that Australian resource producers did not fall for the divisive negotiating tricks of the international cartels which played one Australian producer off against another. Labor wanted to ensure that Australia's major trading partners had a reliable source of supply at proper prices. It was benign supervision and nothing more. Yet, it was painted as nationalisation by our opponents who thought nothing of running down the policies to foreigners and belittling the status of Australia and its Government. 
Now, the Fraser-Anthony Government, by failing to recognise the achievements of the Labor Government, has cost the coal and iron ore industry millions of dollars in export income. I refer to the Inayama agreement negotiated by the late Rex Conner in July 1 975. The agreement was in the form of a letter from the  Chairman  of Nippon Steel,  Mr Inayama,  providing for an increase in purchases from Australia of coking coal from between 27 million and 29 million tonnes for the current year to between 44 million and 49 million tonnes for the year 1980. There was to be a maximum increase of 20 million tonnes over the period. 
The agreement also contained the important proviso that if, through economic circumstances -this ought to be listened to-there should be a reduction in the manufacture of steel in Japan, there would be no reduction in coal purchases committed under Japanese contracts for coking coal imports from Australia. That is a very significant concession and one that, if kept, would be of great importance to the industry today. I seek leave to table a copy of that letter. 
Leave granted. 
I thank the House. At the time of this agreement  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Anthony,  as Leader and  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, went on the attack to downgrade the agreement. The then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Fraser,  said in a Press statement: 
The deal is unnecessary despite  Mr Connor's  claims. 
I seek leave to table this statement also. 
Leave granted. 
Last year the Deputy Prime Minister, when in Japan, sought a reaffirmation of this agreement and, in a Press statement, later acknowledged this. I quote from that statement: 
Japan has come to recognise Australia as a regular and secure source of supply. This has been demonstrated in periods of high demand when Australia honoured its contracts and did not desert Japan for high priced markets. 
We would expect Japan to act similarly in periods of recession. In fact,  Mr Inayama  as  Chairman  of Nippon Steel and representing the Japanese steel mills gave the Australian Government - 
He did not say the Labor Government- such an undertaking in writing in 197S. This undertaking was re-confirmed when I was in Japan last year. 
That is when he was there as Minister. At the negotiations this year, the Deputy Prime Minister again brought up the Inayama agreement in an attempt to salvage something to take back to Australia, only to be confronted by the Japanese with his own and the Prime Minister's statements in 1 975 downgrading the agreement. The Japanese are not fools, and according to our Japanese sources they were anxious to show Australia that the approach adopted by the Liberal and Country parties in resource negotiations was both immature and disruptive. 
The Japanese steel mills have taken the world recession far more seriously than the Australian Government.  Mr Inayama  was talking about falling steel production as far back as mid-1975. Throughout this period the Fraser-Anthony Government failed to appreciate the need to manoeuvre the Japanese steel mills into a continuing acceptance of the philosophy of the ConnorInayama letter, namely, that the producers who were first into the market on a long-term basis were to be the last penalised. The latent overcapacity in the world iron ore and coking coal industry is the direct consequence of the steel mills own policy. They alone must now take responsibility for the excess mining capacity that has only gained recent entry into their market. It is these new mines which should bear the brunt of production cutbacks- not Australian mines which in good faith entered into long-term supply contracts, long ago. The mills wanted the over-capacity as a weapon to depress prices in good times; they should now take responsibility for their folly in the bad times. 
Acceptance of minimum contract tonnages is reasonable enough in the circumstances, particularly with declining steel production, but going below these levels to the tune of 1 5 per cent is unacceptable and the Australian Government should tell them so. Some mines in Australia stand to lose up to 33 per cent of base contract tonnages. This will drive many of them into loss situations and adversely affect employment. The Government would be recreant in its duty if it did not stand its ground against the Japanese steel industry and insist on at least the minimum contract tonnage uplift during the current contract year. As far as prices are concerned, the mills squeezed a favourable price reduction in iron ore from Brazil so Brazil could hold its tonnages. This should not be a precedent for Australia. If Brazil feels compelled to grovel there is no reason why we should feel compelled to imitate it. On the contrary, a $70m revenue loss to our mines is too great. Existing prices should be held and old contracts should be renegotiated to current prices so as to minimise the loss of income from tonnage reductions. There are still quite a few old contracts written at low prices, and if the Japanese want to mitigate the damage of a loss of tonnage deliveries to the level of 10 per cent falling away from the base contract tonnages they can reduce the impact of revenue losses by upgrading the old contracts to current prices. Any drop in prices for Australian producers will clearly signal complete capitulation by the Australian Government. 
Australia's interests have not been helped by the antics of the Premiers of Western Australia and Queensland. The mills must be laughing themselves sick with the caravan of conservative Australian politicians that has beaten a path to their door in recent weeks.  Sir Charles  Court was there doing his best to further convince the mills of their supremacy. He was there trying to save Western Australia's iron ore mines from cutbacks, yet the same man was in Tokyo last year trying to start another new iron ore mineGoldsworthy 's Area 'C. If he had suceeded one can only imagine how sick the Western Australian iron ore industry would have looked if even more capacity were to have been built into it. Of course, the mills sent  Sir Charles  home empty handed despite the fact that  Sir Charles  and the  Western Australian  newspaper have spent the last week trying to put a good face on his rebuff. The mills know  Sir Charles  is now delightfully irrelevant. It would help Western Australia's interests and his own to leave trade matters where they constitutionally belong and that is with the national Government. Far better for him to stiffen up  Mr Anthony  than to try and take on the role as the National Trade Minister. The same goes for Premier Bjelke-Petersen. He has no more clout with the mills than his Western Australian alter ego. 
These incursions by the States into international trade negotiations are a direct consequence of the absence of any permanent mechanism to deal with difficult trade questions. The Government must formalise a system whereby there is close harmony and exchange of information between the relevant government departments and private industry so that when negotiations get under way all available skill and knowledge come together at the one time. There is nothing wrong with active government support in resource negotiations and the reluctance of the Fraser-Anthony Government to continue the policies of Labor in this regard seems to be the result of an ideological blind spot and not of any rational assessment of the current international market place. The Government in the national interest must move towards the Opposition in this matter and forget its prejudices. The system should work by officials getting together following consultations with the various industries for talks with their counterparts overseas. Once the ground rules are worked out, the various resource companies could then begin their negotiations with prospective buyers in the full knowledge that they have all the knowledge and skill to back them up. There is no reason why such negotiations should always take place in Japan, and in fact it is in the interests of Australia that in future these important negotiations take place alternately in Australia and Japan so that we can end the cap-in-hand treks to Tokyo that have characterised the relationship between the two countries since the fifties. 
In fact the Japanese steel mills in the late sixties had become so arrogant in their dealing with Australian iron ore and coal producers that their negotiators openly claimed that they set prices which allowed the Australian producers a reasonable profit after costs. Can anyone imagine the Japanese steel mills allowing the Australian resource producers to determine their profit levels? Yet the subservient attitudes of successive Liberal-Country Party governments in their private negotiations with overseas buyers has allowed this philosophy to develop and be accepted. It is demeaning, and if the Australian public were fully aware of it they would be ashamed. As it is, they merely see Government Ministers, including the Prime Minister, threatening the Japanese and the European Economic Community with retaliatory action unless they buy more beef, wool, iron ore or coal. The approach of the Government to resource negotiations and foreign relations in general is one of posture and empty rhetoric and is long in need of an overhaul. 
The Government's recent crude forays into resource diplomacy' demonstrate the extremes which have characterised this Government's trade approach. This Government actually threatens foreign governments that supplies will be cut off unless certain conditions are met. The Minister for Primary Industry recently used the 200-mile fishing and resource zone off-shore as a lever for Australian cattle producers to gain access to Japanese markets. The Prime Minister in his usual heavy handed way has threatened the EEC that unless it buys more beef it cannot be sure of gaining access to Austraiian uranium. It was the Prime Minister last year who, after informing the  Australian  newspaper first, summoned the Japanese Ambassador to Kirribilli House in Sydney to read him the riot act over the sugar negotiations, causing the Ambassador severe embarrassment. On the same matter, it was this Prime Minister last year who wrote direct to the Japanese Prime Minister in most direct and undiplomatic language on the sugar question, ignoring the Japanese Embassy and other accepted and proper channels and causing great offence as a result. They are very bold and resolute in public, but every time these public confrontations are reduced to across-the-table meetings Australia is always the loser. Up they go to Japan waving a big stick and back they come with the stick well and truly broken over their backs. Perhaps the  Australian  editorial of 30 March last sums up the current situation adequately: 
Trade is essential to our survival in this economically troubled world.  Mr Anthony  presents himself as entirely inadequate in the position of Minister for Trade.  His  recent trip to Japan was demonstrably unsuccessful and his attempts on his return to give a semblance of success to his mission succeeded only in giving an impression of a farmer sent on a super-salesman's errand. 
The Japanese are tough businessmen and for  Mr Anthony  to try to sway them with talk of 'a special relationship' between Australia and Japan is ludicrous. It is yet to be demonstrated by the Japanese that they recognise a 'special relationship' and  Mr Anthony  would be better off realising that, instead of publicly apologising for the tough line taken against Japanese fishermen by  the New Zealand Prime Minister,  Mr Muldoon-  who seems to understand tough dealing better than we do. 
That is a quote from the  Australian.  There is a clear interest for Australia to protect, firstly in regard to our balance of trade and our balance of payments, and secondly in regard to our industries. The Prime Minister has demonstrated an interest in running the detail of most Ministers' portfolios. If the Minister for Trade and Resources does not pick up his feet the Prime Minister will feel obliged to take command of his portfolio also. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this legislation. The purpose of the Bill is to extend the powers of the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation to borrow moneys for promotional purposes. The House probably will realise that at the moment the Apple and Pear Corporation is funded by levies on domestic and export apples and pears, both in processed and fresh fruit form. Because of seasonal fluctuations there have been insufficient moneys available to the Corporation to meet peak promotional costs. It is the purpose of the Bill to give the Corporation the power and the right to raise moneys other than those raised by way of the levy. 
The Corporation is engaged in the activity of promotion of fruit which is mostly traded by others, and it can borrow at the moment only for fruit which it trades itself. Therefore, as the legislation is presently framed, when it needs money during the peak promotional periods it is not in a position to borrow. The effect of this change will be that it can borrow when necessary, to promote not only its own fruit but also the fruit of others within the industry. This, of course, will allow the Corporation much more flexibility. It will not have to limit its budgets for promotion, and when the levy moneys are collected they can repay the funds available to it. Clause 4 of the Bill states: 
Section 30 of the principal Act is amended by omitting paragraph (a) of sub-section ( 1 ) and substituting the following paragraph: 
borrow moneys for the purpose of- 
exercising its powers to engage in trade; 
performing its functions of promoting the export from Australia of apples and pears; 
performing its function of promoting trade and commerce in apples and pears among the States, between States and Territories and within the Territories; or 
performing its function of encouraging the consumption of apples and pears in the Territories . . . 
That clause makes plain the kind of expansion of powers to be given to the Corporation by the legislation. I believe this amendment to the principal Act will better allow the Corporation to carry out its functions, mainly its promotional functions. It is basically a machinery measure, and for those reasons the Opposition does not oppose the legislation. 
I ask a question of the Foreign Minister; I refer to the question asked last week by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition and the Minister's unsatisfactory reply to my request - 
I second the motion.  Mr Speaker,  only  Mr Coleman,  the Chief Electoral Commissioner- 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the honourable member for Blaxland be not further heard. 
-by leave-In the absence of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  I make this point: The reason that he brought this matter to your attention was that the word 'not' in the statement of the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  was not a slip of the tongue in the view of the Opposition and that the  Hansard  ' greens' were an accurate reflection of the course of his answer and the intent of his meaning. Subsequently, the Minister obviously realised that his answer was incorrect. He should have adopted the procedure of coming into the chamber and here seeking to amend his answer.  Mr Speaker,  the insertion of the word 'not' did change substantially the meaning of what the Minister had said, and in the view of honourable members on this side of the House the answer was so important and critical to the Minister's assessment or understanding of his own portfolio area that the change needed to be brought to your attention in the House so that it will not happen again. I can understand that the Principal Parliamentary Reporter is in a position where he is not able to keep an eye on the vagaries and subtleties of the political debate. Be that as it may, it ill behoves a senior Government Minister to change an answer in such a way as to alter the intention and meaning of his answer. In future I hope that you,  Mr Speaker,  require Ministers in particular to observe the rules of the Parliament and the integrity of their statements and change only grammar and not the meaning of their statements. 
-Apart from a precis of the technical aspects of the Bills which were introduced tonight by other Ministers, the statement by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  contains very little new information. In fact, it is really just a rehash of things the Government has said at earlier times but more importantly the statement is significant for what it lacks rather than for what it says. I detail now a number of areas in which I think the statement is unsatisfactory and I will refer to those areas later. The speech is unsatisfactory, firstly, because of the absence of any reference to a policy of waste disposal. The Government seems to have ignored this question completely. The  Deputy  Prime Minister's speech failed to deal with safeguards and arms control. The Uranium Advisory Council personnel seem inappropriate for safeguard negotiations and arms control. The Government's model safeguard agreement is secret and confidential except to this Government and foreign governments. Australia's involvement in the International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation is not a policy. Activity and negotiation are not a policy. Working Group No. 3 of the INFCE deals with fuel assurance only. Australia's contribution to that group is preoccupied by demand assurance rather than nonproliferation. There is no expose by the Minister of the Nuclear Suppliers' Group guidelines which he now says the Government has accepted. No detailed attention is given to that whatsoever. The Minister's assessment of uranium demand is unrealistic and is supported by misleading statistics. The hollow arguments tendered by the Minister about developing new uranium mines only to provide a small shortfall under the contracts existing prior to 1972 are fallacious. The reference in the speech to Australia's trading obligation in respect of existing contracts is jingoistic. The Government has failed to introduce simultaneously with this legislation legislation for a resources tax on uranium development and upon old oil in Australia. They are our basic complaints about the Minister's speech. 
I will deal now with those complaints and seek leave to continue my remarks later. I address myself to this question of waste disposal. Waste disposal is a major stumbling block to the development of nuclear power in the world. Yet it seemed to me that the Government has completely ignored it in the Minister's statement and in its public and private deeds. The waste disposal problem is the most intractable problem facing the uranium industry. It is one which gives members on this side of the House most concern about the course of nuclear power. In the United States some States are considering the passage of legislation- some may already have passed it; my memory may not serve me correctly on this- to prohibit the further expansion of nuclear power in those States until the problem of waste disposal is solved. Just a few weeks ago we found the advice which  President  Carter is getting is amplifying the fact that it will be into the late 1980s before there is any kind of solution to permanent isolation of long life actinides from the biosphere. 
I deal now with the question of arms control. Only one person that the Minister mentioned as being a member of the Uranium Advisory Council would seem to have any qualifications whatsoever to deal with the question of nuclear safeguards and arms control legislation and limitation. That is the expert in national and international affairs or law. If one goes through the list one sees mentioned the Australian religious community, the Aboriginal community, a national voluntary environmental organisation, the Northern Territory community, the Australian Council of Trade Unions, a person with experience in energy matters, the Australian uranium industry, a nuclear scientist, a medical practitioner or health physicist, an environmentalist with experience in natural resource development, an economist with experience in natural resource development, an expert in national and international affairs or law. The last person mentioned would be the only person which we could in any way believe to be qualified to deal with other countries on the question of arms control and the development of nuclear safeguards and enshrining those, either in multilateral agreements or with Australia in bilateral agreements. While they may be admirable appointments, the personnel of the Uranium Advisory Council seem to be completely unsatisfactory for the kinds of policies which the Government ought to be interested in pursuing. 
I will now turn to the Government's model agreement. Today in this Parliament I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  for the second time in two weeks, whether he would table the model safeguard agreement and he gave his reply, which we now know is spurious, that this was a matter between the Australian Government and foreign governments and as such was confidential to them. I put it to the House and the Australian people that if 15 foreign governments are in receipt of this document why cannot the Australian people be privy to it? If it enshrines the kind of safeguard policies outlined by the Government in a succession of speeches made in this House, if it accurately reflects the content of those policies, why cannot the Opposition and the Parliament see it? Obviously, the Government does not want the scrutiny of the Parliament on this matter, particularly in the light of any bilateral agreements it might make, to obviate the problem of having a comparison made between the bilateral agreements and the model safeguards agreements and that there can be no demonstration by the Opposition or by the public at large that the Government has shifted ground on the question of safeguards. That is not mentioned in the Minister 's speech. 
I will now deal with the question of the International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation. The Minister's speech is completely unsatisfactory from the perspective of non-proliferation and safeguards. That part of the Minister's speech dealing with the International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation entirely misled the Parliament. Activity does not make a policy. Negotiations do not tell us the terms of agreement. Bilateral arrangements do not address fully the basic problem of keeping weapon material out of national hands. Participation in the International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation means nothing in itself. South Africa and India are participants in INFCE. The Government should tell us exactly what it is saying at the INFCE. Of course, there is no expose of this.  Mr Justice  Fox has not participated in the INFCE. He has attended no meetings since the organisation conference last October. Other countries are largely mystified by his existence and utterances. Perhaps the Minister might tell us what  Mr Justice  Fox has been doing all this time, running around Europe and other places, if he is not appearing at this conference. 
The Department of Trade and Resources has dominated Australia's participation in INFCE Working Group No. 3, which deals with fuel assurance. Australia's contribution to that group has been preoccupied by demand assurance more than non-proliferation. Our participation as an observer in the Nuclear Suppliers Group Working Party on multiple labelling is an activity but it is not a policy. All these things are trotted out as activities on the basis that they are policies, and of course they are not. In short, all these words add nothing. What is needed, among other things, is a clear indication that non-proliferation concern drives the policy. So far it appears to be a cloak for deception and a minimal statement to facilitate commercial activities. The Minister mentioned the Nuclear Suppliers Group but there is no articulation by him of the kind of guidelines to which he says the Government has agreed. Surely the statement should have included a fairly comprehensive resume of the kind of guidelines which this group has brought down and details of our agreement with them. But we do not hear anything about them. 
The next fallacious argument that the Minister put in 'his speech is the matter of uranium demand. He made a case, using statistics, about demand outstripping supply. Anybody who wants to lump in projected uranium reactor capacity can make all kinds of projections. The Minister's assessment is unrealistic and, by his own admission, it includes 307 nuclear power stations which are presently at the planning stage. Given the fall away of growth in the gross national product in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development countries, as well as the problems of siting nuclear power stations and the environmental backlash against them, it is very likely that those projections will not be met. Indeed, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission in its latest annual report says that the demand for uranium will be down by 36 per cent. Let me read to the House an article which appeared in the  Australian  newspaper and which deals with that report. The article reads: 
The Australian Atomic Energy Commission has forecast a drop of 36 per cent in world demand for Australian uranium because of delays and revisions to nuclear power programs.  the drop in demand meant that sales between 1980 and 1985 would amount to between 33,000 tonnes and 50,000 tonnes instead of 78,000 tonnes as originally estimated ... a decrease of 36 per cent on the previous estimate. 
That is a very conservative estimate. We on this side of the House believe that the decrease will be even much greater than that. Only just a few months ago Australia's Ambassador to the European Economic Community communicated to the Government his belief that uranium demand in the EEC had fallen dramatically. Yet the Minister trots out this mixture of fact and farrago in which he suggests that uranium demand will outstrip uranium supply. We do not believe that is the case, and we believe his statement to be misleading. 
The greatest nonsense that the Minister spoke tonight was in relation to the question of existing contracts. He spoke about establishing a new mine to honour the balance of the existing contract. Let us get this into perspective. A new mine in the Northern Territory- Ranger, for instance -has a productivity capacity of 3,000 tons a year. The existing contract agreed to by the previous Labor Government and conservative governments prior to 1972 accounts for about 11,700 short tons of uranium, of which only approximately 2,500 tons cannot be met by the Mary Kathleen mine or by the Atomic Energy Commission's stockpiles. Therefore deliveries can be made into the 1980s. One could pick up 2,700 tons in a butcher shop. The contracts were negotiated at current market prices. So Australia could provide from other sources of supply the 2,700 tons without the need arising to establish Ranger. 
On what commercial basis could anybody suggest that $250m worth of uranium plant be developed to supply one year's capacity? That plant would have a life of 25 years. That is the argument the Minister put forward tonight. He spoke of the Labor Party running out on trade obligations. He makes that sort of jingoistic reference to our trading obligations and how Australia cannot fall back in any way upon the absolute letter intent of those contracts. Let us just examine what the Japanese are doing now to our iron ore and coal contracts. They are not abiding by the letter of the law of those contracts. Just today we find in the annual report of Conzinc Riotinto of Australia that in the March quarter the tonnages of Hamersley Holdings Ltd are down by 36 per cent. If that son of thing happens across the industry, we will see these massive iron ore and coal industries running losses. Yet the Minister tonight has been talking about our meeting 2,700 tons of uranium after 1983. What absolute nonsense. So we reject that policy out of hand as absolute nonsense. 
Again the Government has failed to mention anything about a resources tax. It has had 18 months in which to construct a resources tax on the uranium industry. But given the fact that it was the Government's intention to develop such a tax, it has introduced today a plethora of Bills, none of which contains reference to such a tax. The only reference to it is when the Government says that it is still talking to the industry about it. Because things are not going too well in the iron ore and coal industries, we on this side of the House know that the Government thinks that the climate for the introduction of a resources tax is a little way off. The Government is about to drop the proposal. It is about to drop a similar proposal in relation to uranium. Hence we have the sort of sneaky reference to it that we have had tonight We believe that legislation introducing a resources tax on uranium should have been presented into the Parliament tonight, along with the other Bills. If ever the industry gets a start, such a tax damned well will be introduced because the public of Australia will demand it. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-The purpose of the Tasmania Grant (The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd) Amendment Bill is to increase the level of Commonwealth assistance to Tasmania to continue the operations of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd. 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase the level of Commonwealth assistance to Tasmania for the continued operation of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd. The House will recall that last November legislation was put through the Parliament to give Commonwealth assistance on a fifty-fifty basis with Tasmania for the continued operation of the mine, pending the final report of the Industries Assistance Commission on copper mining. This Bill provides for assistance up to 30 June this year. By that stage, it is hoped that the final report of the Industries Assistance Commission will have been presented. The basis of the present legislation is that the Commonwealth commitment can only go to a limit of 50 per cent. But as this arrangement is continuing longer than that first envisaged between the parties- that is the Government of Tasmania and the Commonwealth Government- the Government of Tasmania correctly said to the Commonwealth that the Commonwealth should carry a larger proportion of the responsibilities. Hence, a new agreement was entered into. The Government of Tasmania has agreed to forgo payroll tax collections and the Commonwealth is then meeting the balance of the expenditure. Therefore, the need arose to amend this Bill to remove the fifty-fifty limit. 
-Tasmania did not renege. Tasmania made an arrangement before the interim report was presented. It believed, as the Federal Government believed, that the arrangement would not need to stand for very long. But when the interim report came out and it appeared that there was to be yet another year the Government of Tasmania and the Leader of the Opposition in Tasmania, who was also privy to these negotiations, at that stage put it to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that it was unreasonable for Tasmania to carry such a burden. We are talking about $2m a year for a very small State. If the honourable members from Tasmania are talking about supporting Tasmania and if they are arguing tonight that the Tasmanian State Government should stay in the agreement- I think that is what they are arguing but I might be wrong in that assessment- then they are trying to take $2m out of the pockets of fellow Tasmanians. The Tasmanian Government came to the Prime Minister and said that it was an unreasonable arrangement. The Prime Minister agreed with it. This Bill reflects the basis of the new agreement, and that is, that the Commonwealth Government should pick up the balance of the moneys beyond payroll collections which Tasmania will pay towards the continued operations and underwriting of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. 
There is the view on both sides of the House that there is a need to maintain the viability of this mine, and that is because of the fact that it is the employment base of the Queenstown area and maintains not only the town but also the railway system, North- West Acid Pty Ltd, TIOXIDE and all the other industrial concerns of the region. It is no news to many honourable members that recently in Queenstown a new community college has been built, and a hospital and a lot of other social infrastructures could not be left rotting in the event of closure of this mine. The difficulty with low copper prices and low grade ore is that it is impossible at the moment to make the mine pay. What we are seeing is an underwriting to the point where the earnings of the mine will be sufficient to meet its outlays and the mine will be able to continue in operation and therefore maintain the viability of the town. 
It is to be hoped that the final report of the Industries Assistance Commission will shed some light on the future of Mount Lyell rnining operations or indeed on the future movement in copper prices- whether they might continue to the point where they reach a threshold which I think from memory is about $ 1 ,275 a ton, in which case the mine would again continue to be viable. Before the downturn in copper prices the company spent about $48m putting in a new drive to open up a new ore body. That infrastructure is there and is available. I think that with an additional $10m it can be brought into production. If that were the case and if there were an improvement in copper prices, it may be that we will see the continued operation of this mine for another 20 or 30 years, which would be very much to the satisfaction of most members of this House and of course to the people of Tasmania, particularly the people of Queenstown. 
It is a pity that Consolidated Gold Fields of Australia Ltd happened to divide the Renison Ltd tin operation from the operations of Mount Lyell, because whilst Mount Lyell held shares in Renison Ltd, given the boom in tin prices in the last couple of years, I think Renison Ltd was declaring a profit of about $18m to $20m. The Mount Lyell mine was running at a deficit of $4 to $5m. Forty-seven cents in the dollar for company tax written off against the earnings of Renison Ltd would mean that for a $2m cost to profits Mount Lyell could have been maintained. I accept the company's assurance that it sold Renison Ltd in good faith and not to leave the Mount Lyell Mining and Railways Company destitute so that its books would show it running at a loss and it would then be able to go to the governments, both State and Federal, and require them to carry the load. Nevertheless, I make the observation that if Mount Lyell still held the shares of Renison Ltd there would be no need for the Commonwealth Government or the State Government to underwrite this mine at all. It would be underwritten on the earnings of Renison Ltd. That is now not the case, and we have a mendicant situation on our hands. The only way to respond to it sensibly is to take the view that the people of that district require the mine to maintain their employment and viability. 
I hope that in the future the price of copper moves to a point which will enable the new drives and the new infrastructure to be used so that the mine can continue operations and reach viability. If that is the case and the price of copper improves there could be, as I said earlier, 20 to 30 years of continued operation. There are no real alternatives to employment in that region of Tasmania. For the moment, the House awaits eagerly the final report of the IAC on copper rnining. In the meantime we should agree to the passage of this legislation. I hope that during the course of this debate honourable members from Tasmania will not take the cheap political approach and say that somebody ran out on the agreement. The agreement is to keep the town going, and so far that has happened. We all should be pleased that that has happened. 
It is not a satisfactory situation to have the Commonwealth Government or the State Governments paying $3m to $4m to a private company- in this case Consolidated Gold Fields- which holds shares in the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. It is better if the company can stand on its own two feet. If the IAC report in the final analysis does not make any positive recommendations or recommendations which will solve the problem, the Government must look at some other form of management to keep the operation going, perhaps by the people of the town looking at the net value of assets over liabilities, buying it out and running the mine themselves as a co-operative. That would be the last resort. Nevertheless, the IAC may be able to shed some light on the matter. I certainly hope so. In the meantime the Opposition supports the legislation. 
-The introduction of the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill 1978 demonstrates in the clearest possible way that the Government has failed to take seriously the criticisms of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry of the use of the Atomic Energy Act as a vehicle for the commercial development of uranium. The Government has failed to separate the contradictory roles assigned to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission with respect to nuclear safeguards. It has failed to remove the repressive intimidatory security measures of the Atomic Energy Act which will now be applicable also to commercial uranium mining. These failures reflect the Government's contempt for the informed opinion of the members of the Inquiry, which was headed by  Mr Justice  Fox, as well as the conscientiously held views of the public with respect to the hazards of uranium mining and export. 
The Government is going ahead undeterred by the need to find solutions to the serious problems associated with the use of uranium. By contrast, the Opposition has taken full cognisance of the recommendations of the Fox Commission and, to a large extent, our policies are based upon the Commission's findings and recommendations. While the unresolved questions relating to waste disposal and weapons proliferation remain, my party will maintain the view that Australia's uranium deposits should not be developed. Development should be permitted only when the substantial problems have been adequately taken care of. 
Nothing has happened in Australia or overseas of late that can provide any comfort to those concerned with the problems of nuclear powerquite the contrary. Reports from the United States General Accounting Office last September, from a task force which reviewed nuclear waste management for the United States Department of Energy in February and from the United States Congress Sub-Committee on Environment, Energy and National Resources, have all reiterated in the strongest possible terms the absence of technical and regulatory procedures for satisfactorily dealing with high level radioactive waste. No solutions exist now and it will be quite a long time before they do exist. 
I assume this explains why the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony),  in his statement on the development of uranium on 10 April, conveniently ignored the waste disposal issue. As far as nuclear diversion is concerned, no progress has been reported towards overcoming this problem. In fact, in February of this year the  Chairman  of the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission wrote:  the International Atomic Energy Agency Special Safeguards Implementation Report indicated that a country's agreement to subject its nuclear activities to IAEA safeguards does not necessarily assure that adequate material control and accounting measures are applied in all cases. It is therefore possible, that the NRC could approve the export of nuclear materials to countries in which the IAEA is having implementation problems without the NRC knowing it. 
As far as this Parliament knows, Australia would be in a similar position. Thirdly, there have been plenty of initiatives, plenty of proposals, but no guarantees that we are rid of the problem of nuclear weapons proliferation. The International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation- the Carter Initiativehas several years to run before any reports are due. Meanwhile, the decisions and recommendations in favour of uranium reprocessing in European countries, the refusal of France and West Germany to reconsider the sale of reprocessing technologies, the refusal of India to ratify the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty all undermine the INFCE talks. The nuclear industry has done little of late to put its house in order. The Bill provides no recognition of the gravity of the nuclear problem, other than to provide ibr the premature development of Australia 's uranium deposits. 
We oppose the Bill. We oppose it not only because it would provide a right to mine, but also because the Atomic Energy Act is a totally inappropriate Act to control commercial or civil uranium mining. We oppose it because the Australian Atomic Energy Commission is an inappropriate body to be responsible for civil uranium development. The second report of the Ranger Inquiry recommended: 
That the Atomic Energy Act 1 953 not be used for the grant of an authority to Ranger to mine uranium. 
However, on 25 August last year, both the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the then Minister for National Resources indicated that the Government had rejected this recommendation. The words of the Minister were:  . . having reviewed this matter, the Government neverthess considered that the Atomic Energy Act provides an appropriate basis for mining operations at Ranger. 
The Bill now before the House seeks to amend the Act and, among other things, seeks specifically to cover the proposed Ranger operation. The only justification offered for this variation of the Fox Inquiry's recommendation has been that the Fraser Government 'would not wish to disturb arrangements entered into in good faith by the companies with the previous Government'. This is a hypocritical and facile argument. When it suits this Government, it sweeps aside or destroys other efforts of the Labor Government. Even more to the point, the Memorandum of Understanding between the Whitlam Government and the Ranger partners which described these arrangements was not signed until 28 October 1975. This was three months after detailed terms of reference were announced for the Fox inquiry. 
The crucial section of the Memorandum provides that contracts giving it effect 'shall not become effective until Australia has affirmed them following consideration of: (a) the report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry; (b) a report by the Interim Aboriginal Land Commissioner in any claims by Aboriginals in respect of land within the Ranger Project area'. The companies concerned- Peko Mines Ltd and the Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Ltdknew full well that the use of the Memorandum of Understanding depended on the Labor Government's consideration of the Ranger inquiry's report. That report is now public, and it demonstrates that the Atomic Energy Act is an unacceptable basis for uranium mining. The Act was originally drafted at the beginning of the Cold War. It was designed to enable the Australian Government, via the Atomic Energy Commission, to control the exploitation of uranium in the Territories and throughout the Commonwealth for defence purposes. Uranium mined and exported under the authority of this Act during the 1950s and 1960s was destined for nuclear weapons use. The Act also enables the AAEC to conduct nuclear research, both for civilian and military purposes. 
Over half the Act is devoted to detailing security provisions and regulatory provisions relevant only to military operations. Under section 60 of the Act, all projects of the AAEC are to be regarded as defence projects for the purposes of the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act of 1 947. Under this latter Act it is an offence to boycott or threaten to advocate the boycott of an approved defence project. In proposed new section 38 of Part HI of the Atomic Energy Act regulations can be used to control the mining, treatment, use and disposal of uranium under licences issued by the Minister. This is a power additional to the general power of the Minister to direct the Atomic Energy Commission to undertake and supervise operations involving uranium. This is dealt with in sections 17 and 18 of the Act. The Act provides that the Minister may authorise uranium mining largely unconstrained by, in the words of the Fox Inquiry ' the ordinary law of the land respecting mining'. This is contained in section 41 of the Act. Section 43 is amended and places heavy penalties on the obstruction of persons exercising power under the Act. In Part IV of the principal Act normal civil rights are proscribed in respect of access to information, search and arrest, proof of intent and access to declared areas. 
But the situation in 1978 is quite different from that in 1953. Nuclear weapons are condemned by both sides of this House. Australian uranium must not be used to manufacture them. The harsh, repressive measures of the Atomic Energy Act- measures which the Bill before the House does not seek to eliminate- are completely unjustified to cover commercial uranium mining. Why does the present Government want to continue to use the Atomic Energy Act? The first reason apparently, is that the security provisions of the Act offer the Government a means of intimidating and suppressing public opposition to uranium mining. This would be a disreputable misuse of the Act. The second reason, for which the Bill gives substantial evidence, is that the Government is seeking, through comprehensive control of uranium throughout the country- in the States and Territories- the eventual direct control of other mineral developments. If this is the Government's intention, and the Bill is quite explicit in extending the Commonwealth's power, it is a hypocritical move by the Government. 
The only reason the Atomic Energy Act was proposed by the Labor Government to apply to the possible Ranger project was that the preferred alternative, the more appropriate alternative, the Petroleum and Minerals Authority, was invalidated by the High Court. It was invalidated after the most extreme and intense opposition by the then Liberal-National Country Party Opposition. In other words, we have now in government, the same people who, when in opposition, conducted a sustained and ultimately successful campaign to prevent the control by the Commonwealth of mineral development in the States. Yet in this Bill, they propose to do just the same thing, but to do it in a less satisfactory way. Not only was the Labor Government's attempt to establish the Petroleum and Minerals Authority sabotaged by what is now the Government, but in 1974 when, as a substitute for the PMA, the then Minister for Minerals and Energy sought to use regulations made under section 38 ( 1 ) of the Atomic Energy Act to licence uranium mining, these regulations were disallowed by the Senate Opposition majority. Again, the same people who now occupy the Government benches in the Senate and who will be expected to support this Bill, in 1974 condemned and vetoed the use of provisions of the Atomic Energy Act. 
Clause 10 of the Bill would amend section 38 of the Atomic Energy Act to extend and strengthen the Minister's power to regulate and control the rnining, processing, possession, transportation, use and disposal of uranium and related and associated minerals or other substances. Yet on 19 September 1974  Senator Durack  led the then Opposition charge against the regulation of uranium milling by the Minister. The question we now ask is: Will the 16 senators who voted on that occasion to disallow the regulations issued under the Act and who still sit in that Chamber, now vote against the proposed new section 38 as contained in this Bill? Will they recognise that otherwise they will be providing future opportunities for the regulation of uranium mining in a way they previously rejected? 
As a result of this decision of the Senate in September 1 974, the Minister for Minerals and Energy had no alternative but to intervene more indirectly to ensure the adequate control of future uranium development. The fact is that the Senate left the Minister no alternative to the use of the Atomic Energy Commission acting under the direction of the Minister as provided under section 19 to control the Ranger project. I repeat that this was not the choice of the Labor Government, but it was left with no alternative. The effect was that because the Atomic Energy Commission became the agent of the Government in the Ranger venture, the full security provisions of the Atomic Energy Act, including powers under the approved Defence Projects Protection Act, came to apply to any exploitation of Ranger uranium. The objections of the Fox Inquiry to the use of the Atomic Energy Act arose from three considerations. Firstly, as briefly described above, the security provisions of the Act are inappropriate to a project with purely peaceful interests. Secondly, there might be conflict between Aboriginal land rights and provisions of this Act. Thirdly, there could be a real or apparent conflict of interest between the entrepreneurial role of the Atomic Energy Commission and its responsibilities under the Act to supervise local environmental protection measures. So far as this third matter is concerned, the Fox Inquiry suggested that its concern would be reduced if an independent Uranium Advisory Council were established. 
At the moment, however, there are only shaky grounds to suggest that an independent Council will be able to offset the Atomic Energy Act's potential for preventing adequate public scrutiny of the environmental standards at Ranger. Indeed the appointment of an Atomic Energy Commission scientist to set up the office of supervising scientist responsible for environmental research and monitoring hardly inspires confidence in the Government's sensitivity to the need for unimpeachable information and judgments on environmental controls. What is more, the Government has failed to give the Uranium Advisory Council any permanent basis and has not indicated its level of financial support There must be serious doubts as to whether the Council can keep an adequate overview of the promotional activities and operations of the AAEC. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  has introduced a further fundamental conflict of interest in the role of the AAEC. The amendments proposed in this Bill to section 34 of the Act specifically include reference to Australia's nuclear safeguards obligations. The body this Government proposes to be responsible for these obligations, the Australian Safeguards Office, will report through the  Chairman  of the Atomic Energy Commission. Only a Government completely insensitive to international and Australian public concern about nuclear proliferation could propose in 1 978 the establishment of such a blatant conflict of interests. The same body, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission would be regulating and commercially promoting uranium mining. Clearly, there should be a separate statutory authority to administer nuclear safeguards, as has been the case in the United States now for 3 years. Public confidence in the Government's professed interest in ensuring that adequate safeguards are attached to the use of Australian uranium mining and its by-products will not be achieved while the Government is satisfied to use the AAEC as its effective regulatory body. 
The most objectionable aspect of the use of the Atomic Energy Act as a basis for the Government's uranium mining proposals is the frightening powers the Act gives the Government by virtue of its security provisions. The Prime Minister has stated publicly his Government's intention to collect dossiers on opponents of uranium mining. Information collected in this way could well be used to convict a person 'on the circumstances of the case, his conduct, or his known character as proved' as provided under section 47 of the Act, rather than by proving that a person actually committed an offence such as the publication of restricted information. Similarly, speaking or publishing leaflets urging workers not to mine or transport Ranger uranium and not to construct a mine site could be construed as an offence under section 4 of the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act. Publication even of ACTU, labour council and union resolutions urging a boycott of the Ranger operation could be illegal, and be subject to penalties of up to $10,000 and 12 months imprisonment if prosecuted on indictment. Should unions opposed to the establishment of a mine at Ranger not be deterred by the possible use of these powers, the Atomic Energy Act itself allows that a person authorised by the Minister may enter a mine site, as stated in section 41, 'with such workmen and other persons as he thinks fit. ' Finally, provisions of the Atomic Energy Act could be invoked against workers taking part in normal industrial disputes over wages, working conditions and so on. The Minister could declare a mine site a 'restricted area' under section 55 of the Act, and then forbid entry to selected persons or order certain persons to leave the area, under section 56. A strike could be broken under section 41. Workers could be detained, searched and arrested without warrant on suspicion of having 'interferred with' any equipment used in connection with the Ranger operations. 
Both the Atomic Energy Act and the associated Approved Defence Projects Protection Act could be used in a heavy-handed attempt by the Government to repress the opposition to uranium mining and to stifle public discussion of the hazards, dangers and unresolved problems of the nuclear industry. The very existence of these Acts in relation to the proposed Ranger development is an unjustified, unnecessary and objectionable threat to the normal civil right to express opposition to government decisions. Let me repeat this fact. The Atomic Energy Act as it now stands and as it would be amended by the Bill before the House is entirely irrelevant to the mining of uranium in Australia at this time. The only reason it is even available to the Government is that the Whitlam Government was unable to properly ensure the orderly control of mineral development by the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. Further, the only reason the Austraiian Atomic Energy Commission is involved in the proposed Ranger venture is that the Senate under Liberal-Country Party control in 1974 rejected the more satisfactory direct regulation of uranium development by the Minister. 
In 1974, the Atomic Energy Act and Atomic Energy Commission were at best a third choice. The Ranger inquiry made it obvious that they are a quite unacceptable choice. We are prepared to learn from its findings and recommendations. Obviously, the Government is not. Just last week on 24 April, speaking on Australian Broadcasting Commission radio, Professor Charles Kerr described the Ranger inquiry's attitude to the Atomic Energy Act as follows: 
We thought it a most inappropriate bit of legislation, not only due to its penal clauses and its infringement on human rights but because it would also be used to maintain conflict by this blanket of secrecy which has dogged the whole process ever since it started. 
The Government chooses simply to ignore the independent, well-informed judgments of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. 
The Government is under no obligation to pursue the use of the Atomic Energy Act, even if it does choose to continue with the 1975 Memorandum of Understanding. As I have already said, the Memorandum contains a clear let out provision for just such an eventuality as a recommendation by the Ranger Inquiry against the use of this Act. In the letter and spirit of the Memorandum the Government could have reconsidered the Memorandum on receipt of the Inquiry's reports, just as a Labor Government would, quite properly, have done. But no, the Government chooses to go its own ill-advised way. It chooses to use the Atomic Energy Act to cover uranium mining in the civil sense. It chooses to amend this Act only by making it more comprehensive, by strengthening and enlarging the powers under which the Commonwealth may and, under this Government, will intervene in uranium mining. The Government has failed, in the Atomic Energy Act Amendment Bill, to propose any amendments to the Act which could even at the most generous estimate eliminate the worst excesses of the security provisions of the Act. It has failed to take the opportunity available to review the Act thoroughly, to evaluate the terms under which the Atomic Energy Commission undertakes its research and commercial activities. These are serious matters that the present Government has chosen not to give attention to in proposing amendments to the Atomic Energy Act. 
So, what changes does the Bill now before the House propose for this Act? Firstly, it substantially widens the functions of the Atomic Energy Commission. The Commission would retain its authority to engage in uranium and nuclear energy research, development and exploitation for defence purposes. But it will also be explicitly enabled to engage in the mining and marketing of uranium for purely commercial purposes, related to energy generation. The Commission will not be constrained to act only, as is the case now, on behalf of the Commonwealth in deals made with other Governments. Of course, when the Labor Government made the AAEC a part of a similar commercial operation- as a partner in the Mary Kathleen mine, and as a partner in the Ranger venture- it was castigated for doing so by the very people who now propose this as a legitimate function of the Commission. I do not think we on this side of the House will ever become accustomed to the hypocritical attitude of the people who presently occupy the Government benches. Secondly, the Bill will allow the AAEC to mine, treat and most significantly sell not only uranium, but also ' minerals found in association with uranium'. This is an important extension of the interests of the AAEC. But we are offered no explanation or justification by the Government for it. 
These proposed amendments pale into insignificance when we look at the changes the Government proposes for Part III of the Act. This part concerns the control of materials related to nuclear energy, that is, 'prescribed substances'. It describes the limited circumstances in which the Minister can exercise control of these materials, and it describes the purposes for which ministerial regulations can be made in relation to these circumstances. At present, the Minister has control of uranium only for the purposes of the defence of the Commonwealth and in relation to activities carried out in Territories. The amendment would dramatically extend the purposes for which the Minister could control uranium to include the exercise of the Commonwealth's powers over overseas trade and commerce, and its powers over external affairs. The Minister, in his second reading speech has explained the second of these by pointing out the need to ensure that exports of Australian uranium are covered by adequate nuclear safeguards. But no explanation is forthcoming in relation to the inclusion of the Commonwealth's trade and commerce powers. 
When this proposed amendment is taken in conjunction with the changes proposed for section 38 of the Act, dealing with the regulatory powers of the Minister, it is clear that the Government is seeking extensive, direct power over the mining, processing, transportation and use of uranium in the States. It seeks to exercise control over the licensing of uranium mining in the States regardless of the State's policy on mining, provided the uranium is either to be traded between states or to be exported, the Minister assures the House in his second reading speech that it is not the Government's intention to include within the scope of the regulations the working of minerals which contain only small traces of prescribed substances. As we know intentions change. What matters is the contents of the legislation. The Opposition is quite frankly amazed that a government which so often declares itself decentralist and which so often talks about the new federalism, of returning powers to the States, can propose a Bill with provisions such as these. It is the height of folly for the Government to put forward such proposals after the way its members treated the efforts of the Whitlam Government when it tried to exercise direct control over uranium development. We regard these amendments as a shabby, backdoor method of acquiring Commonwealth control over uranium, and, potentially, over other mineral developments. We regard the Atomic Energy Commission as an inappropriate body to be responsible for uranium development. 
The Bill serves to worsen rather than to relieve the contradictions concerning the involvement of the Commission by making it the agency effectively responsible for nuclear safeguards. We regard the Atomic Energy Act as an inappropriate Act to control the civilian use of uranium. The changes proposed in this Bill do not overcome the objections raised by the Ranger inquiry. The Act is fundamentally concerned with the control of defence-related operations. It cannot be amended in a way which will make it acceptable. It is an Act which is out of date and out of touch with our time, particularly in view of the relevance that the Government sees for it. It is for these reasons that the Opposition feels that it can in no way seek to amend the Bill; it must oppose the Bill in a blanket way. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Blaxland moving - 
That the House condemns the Prime Minister and the Government for applying double standards in the equipping of the VIP flight with two Boeing 727 jet aircraft for the comfort and convenience of the Prime Minister, and for the insensitivity shown by the Prime Minister and the Government in embarking on a $40m VIP equipment program at  a  time when 1,100 workers are to be displaced in industry and when unemployment and deprivation in the community arc at record levels. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question which follows the reply he gave concerning Iran nuclear safeguards. Whilst the Opposition would like to accept the bona fides of the Prime Minister's answer, to do so I ask the Prime Minister: Will he table the model safeguard agreement so that a comparison can be made between it and the final agreement which the Government intends to table when it finally signs the agreement with Iran, if indeed it does so? We on this side of the House have asked this on a number of occasions. In the light of the Prime Minister's answer we are now requesting the Government to table the model agreement. 
-The purchase of these new aircraft is yet another example of the personal indulgence of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Government. This brazen act represents an absolutely new low in insensitivity and bad taste on the part of the Prime Minister. The purchase comes at a time when 1,100 people and 1,100 families associated with Chrysler Australia Ltd will feel the cold wind of unemployment and will be on the street looking for work and at a time when half a million other people are on that same street looking for work. Yet this man, the present Prime Minister of Australia, spends and continues to spend more money on his own vanities and more money on himself than any other Prime Minister has spent in the history of Australia. 
Let us just examine what this Prime Minister has spent on himself, because it was only two and a half years ago that he was haranguing the former Australian Labor Party Prime Minister for his supposed extravagances. He is now seeking to purchase two Boeing aircraft costing $ 13m each- that makes at least $26m- for the VIP fleet. He has his own custom-built car for his tripping around in Melbourne- not anywhere else in Australia, just in Melbourne. It is a special length to take his size so that he can move in and out of the body of his car in comfort. 
Yes, for his big head. He has spent $250,000 on renovations to 'The Lodge' to make it more comfortable. He does not intend to suffer it in the way it was under the Labor Prime Minister, or under Prime Ministers McMahon, Gorton and Menzies before him. He has to have a bigger house. In the house he has spent $8,000 on a new crockery set. He was not going to have the old chipped stuff that everyone else had put up with. He had to have a great new set. Of course this man will spend any amount of public money on himself. Even today at Question Time he admitted that he went to Melbourne last night for a wine tasting and to go to his tailor. He then went on to say that he did not go to the wine tasting though he would have liked to have gone. He said that the result of the trip was that we sold some wine to Canada. That was his justification for the trip. Since when is it the job of a Prime Minister to fly around in VIP aircraft in the middle of a parliamentary session selling wine to Canada? The truth is that he was looking after his friend from Canada, the chap who took him on a fishing trip, as he looks after all his other foreign friends when it comes to applications before the Foreign Investment Board, as he looks after Brian Inglis of the Ford Motor Co. or any other person who has his ear. 
I withdraw the imputation,  Mr Speaker.  The Prime Minister will spend any amount of money on himself. This man is obsessed with toys. He is a boy who has never grown up. Every second weekend he is into historic racing cars. Every person in the country who has an historic racing car cannot wait to shoehorn him in behind the wheel to give him a trip around one of the circuits. He is also obsessed with Japanese cameras. The Japanese gave him a camera, and now he has all the trinkets. Everywhere he goes he has the cameras around his neck, and he takes pictures. Now of course he wants his very own plane, his very own three- engined jet plane. The two aircraft will be purchased for $26m, at the public's expense. He is obsessed with toys. He is a boy who has never grown up. He does not behave as a Prime Minister should, and of course he does not practice what he preaches. He is just into spending public money on himself. 
These aircraft accommodate 80 to 90 people. What is the Prime Minister suggesting- that in future he will use these VIP aircraft for parties of up to 90 people? We know from confidential sources that the Japanese Government was quite surprised at the size of his last contingent to Japan. On this last trip to Japan he took more people than he did on his official visit to Japan. He took to Japan a group of journalists and staff unsurpassed in numbers in the history of the Commonwealth. It was like a bloated royal caravan. Everywhere he goes he has this great retinue of people to add to the delusions of grandeur which he has about himself. What has he done on all his trips overseas? He always comes back empty handed. He went to Japan, but his visit has not done anything for iron ore contracts, it has not done anything for the cutbacks in trade, and it has not done anything for the coal industry. 
He criticised the former Labor Prime Minister. At least that man achieved something. He went to China and established diplomatic recognition of China and diplomatic relations between China and Australia for the first time. He went to the Soviet Union and established a major new trade pact for the first time. What have we seen from this Prime Minister? Just a series of trips which have been of course an absolute failure. We on this side of the House might not be so sensitive to these matters but for the haranguing which the present Prime Minister gave to the former Prime Minister and Labor Party Ministers when we were in government. This Prime Minister has made this point on a number of occasions, the last time to the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer): 
My predecessor in a period of three years was overseas on 14 occasions. It is not a record that I particularly wish to emulate. 
It is true that the former Prime Minister was overseas on 14 occasions in 36 months. This Prime Minister has been overseas already 11 occasions in 28 months. He will make three more overseas trips in the next month, which will bring him up to the former Prime Minister's record, in 29 months. It took the former Prime Minister three years. Not a bad record for someone who did not want to emulate that number of trips. What have we seen for it? Nothing. 
He even went to the point of saying in his policy speech in 1975 that Australia does not need a tourist as a Prime Minister. All of his supporters clapped and waved their signs with the slogan 'Turn on the Lights'. The truth is that we now have as a Prime Minister the greatest tourist in our history. He just cannot stay at home. Wherever he goes he comes back empty handed. During 1974-75 he asked many questions on notice about the number and costs of trips of the former 
Prime Minister and the cost associated with chartering a 707 aircraft. What humbug. He has been travelling around the world costing us a fortune. Now he is not even prepared to do it in commercial aircraft. He will have a 727 aircraft in which to travel. As well as his trips, there have been overseas trips by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and former Treasurer Lynch. When the former Treasurer was not constructing tax dodges for himself he was travelling overseas. He was one of the major critics of Ministers of the former Government for doing so. 
Let us look at the justification for the purchase of these aircraft. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  yesterday said: 
Personal contact with governments of other countries is now becoming increasingly important in inter-government relationships. This factor is imposing increasing demands on the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his staff to travel overseas . . . 
Well, what a recant. Fancy resiling from all of the false charges a couple of years ago. The Minister then had the hide to talk about security, but this Government would not give us the benefit of the doubt when we were in office when we were advised about the security involved in using a 707 aircraft. It was never big enough to concede that, but now it explains its actions away by saying that it has been advised by  Sir Robert  Mark. We were advised too, but this Government did not take any notice of our advice. It was quite happy to pour the bucket all over us. Imagine the front page headlines if the former Prime Minister had purchased these aircraft. The headlines would be: 'Two Planes for Gough'. Today there are no front page headlines about this purchase. The  Herald  has an article on page 2, and the other newspapers have it buried towards the back because they are not prepared to shift this person out of office. The are not prepared to demonstrate to the Australian people what a two-faced person we have in the Prime Ministership of Australia. 
I withdraw it,  Mr Speaker,  but the imputation is there. 
I will withdraw it unreservedly  Mr Speaker.  It is the double standards to which we on this side of the House object. We took the abuse and vilification on these matters without any foundation for three years. Yet all we have seen is our accusers doing exactly the same things but in a much better and grander way than we are ever supposed to have done them. 
Let us look at the selection of the aircraft. These 727 aircraft are not the recommendation of the VIP fleet nor indeed of the Royal Australian Air Force. The RAAF has pointed out that 727 aircraft cannot be integrated with its fleet in times of emergency. When they are not used exclusively for VIP purposes they cannot be integrated into that fleet. As well as that, they are just not suitable. The present BAC-1 1 1 aircraft, for instance, has a range of 2,000 nautical miles yet the 727-200 series aircraft has a range of only 2,300 nautical miles. We are buying two aircraft which have a range of only 300 nautical miles more than the aircraft we presently have. The 707 aircraft, which can be bought in just about in any second hand car yard throughout the United States of America because nobody wants it, has a range of 6,S00 nautical miles. It seems to me that an aircraft with four engines and a range of 6,500 nautical miles would have been a more suitable aircraft. Yet the Government wants a modern plane and one with three engines. It has decided to purchase two 727 aircraft. 
Before I rose to speak in this debate I checked up with some brokers around Australia with respect to the availability of second hand 727 aircraft. Throughout the world there are no suitable 727 aircraft currently for sale on a second hand basis that will meet the noise standards set by the Australian civil aviation authorities. The only way in which the Government can obtain a suitable second hand aircraft is if it says that the aircraft is for defence purposes so that it can get through the noise limitation problems. There are no DC9s available. That means that the Government must buy new aircraft, each of which, without spares, will cost $13m- a total of $26m for the two aircraft. The Government has announced that not only will it spend $26m on the VIP fleet but that this is part of a $40m reequipment program. It is just a disgraceful abuse of the privileges of the public purse. It is a luxury in which the Prime Minister and the Government are indulging. It is a disgrace, considering the import of its policy and its statements at the last election and at the 1975 election. It is an abrogation of another election promise. No matter what rationale the Minister for Defence would like to put, it does not absolve the Government from the blame that this Prime Minister will spend any amount of money on himself to justify his own glories and vanities while half a million people in Australia are living at subsistence level. 
That is the contrast. Any amount of money will be spent for the Prime Minister while half a million people in Australia do not have jobs. We on this side of the House condemn the Prime Minister and the Government for their insensitivity and bad taste. The best thing they can do is to drop the whole program. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that Vice-President Mondale of the United States favoured the holding of a parliamentary reception in his honour? Is it also a fact that the Prime Minister opposed and quashed the suggestion, seeking to limit the exposure of the VicePresident to no more than a handful of Cabinet Ministers? Does the United States Government share the view of the Fraser Government that the Fraser Government owns the relationship with the United States? 

 Mr MALCOLM FRASER The honourable gentleman does himself credit every day because he exposes himself politically to the Australian public. They will judge him accordingly. At this moment the Leader of the Opposition and, for all I know, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition are having discussions with the Vice-President. 
Which you opposed. 
-The purpose of the five Wool Tax Amendment Bills and the Wool Industry Amendment Bill is to allow the Australian Government to continue to impose the 5 per cent levy for the maintenance of the market support fund and the 3 per cent levy for the financing of wool research and promotion as well as the administration and marketing functions of the Australian Wool Corporation. The market support fund is part of the arrangements introduced by the Labor Government for the creation of the fixed floor price scheme and the establishment of the mechanism to meet any losses which might arise out of the operation of the floor price scheme. It is pertinent to remind the Government that the scheme for which it takes so much credit was introduced by the Australian Labor Party when in government. It was a vast improvement on the reserve price scheme which had operated prior to 1972 but it has failed to place an effective minimum floor in the market. 
In spite of the frequent protests about how the National Country Party supports the wool industry neither the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  nor his leader, the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony),  have the courage to proceed with the request from the Australian Wool Industry Conference and woolgrowers generally to introduce the fixed floor price. It is also interesting that the Minister is again holding out the prospect of establishing a revolving fund for payments made into the market support fund but in his traditional form he will give no firm commitment. Thus there will be years of procrastination as there has been with the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation and the Australian Primary Industry Bank. If the Minister is running to form, any new legislation will be introduced in the dying days of a session after the primary industry organisations have had to flog him into accession. 
Even after this process the Government rarely fulfils its promises in this area. For instance, how many woolgrowers and others are waiting for the commencement of the Australian Primary Industry Bank, a bank dominated by the trading banks? We recall the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  during the last election campaign. He said: 
The new Australian rural bank for which legislation was passed in the last Parliament will be established without delay. 
He also said: 
It will provide, in conjunction with the banks and other lenders long term credit to viable borrowers for up to 30 years at concessional rates of interest. 
Six months have passed since this Government was elected and the bank still has not commenced operation. There has to be another Bill before this Parliament to make sure it has the correct name. The Minister still has not revealed the name of the members of the bank board because he knows that producers will be aghast that it is stacked with members of the Australian Bankers Association, the very organisation which producers claimed was not providing loans on the right terms and conditions in the first place. This is the sort of example upon which woolgrowers should judge the Minister's bona fides in respect of the interests of the wool industry. 
Naturally the Opposition does not oppose the Wool Tax Amendment Bill and the Wool Industry Amendment Bill. However, it does wish to see some positive action taken on the proposal emanating principally from the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation but supported by the Australian Wool Industry Conference that growers' contributions to the market support fund should be repaid to the growers once the fund reaches a certain level. It is for this reason that the Opposition proposes to move an amendment. This amendment should pose neither philosophical nor practical difficulties for the Minister. In the very brief remarks he made about the wool industry in his opening address to the National Agricultural Outlook Conference on 24 January this year he said: 
Shortly I will be having talks with the wool industry on ways by which a revolving fund might become a practical feature of wool marketing. 
As usual the Minister seems to mean by 'shortly', time periods of no less than 12 months. However, he went on to state: 
I have asked the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to initially develop three papers evaluating the overall marketing systems for the main export products; wool, meat and grains. This work is to be undertaken in consultation with the marketing authorities and is expected to take some 12 months. 
In the process of making this examination the Bureau of Agricultural Economics would no doubt be examining proposals such as the revolving fund and without a great deal of trouble I suggest that the Minister could arrange for the work to be completed in time for a paper to be tabled early in the Budget session- that is about the middle of August. If the Minister cannot agree to this proposal real doubts will be created about his intentions to consider seriously the revolving fund proposal. 
The Opposition believes it important that there should be an independent authoritative document on the financing of the wool industry, particularly when that financing has budgetary implications because of the Federal Government's involvement. As demonstrated recently, the present Government has used the funds provided to the Australian Wool Corporation to do some cosmetic surgery to the Budget deficit. Prior to the last Budget pressure was exerted on the Corporation to repay funds so as to reduce the size of the deficit and the recent transfer of the Corporation's debt of $50m from the Government to private overseas lenders shows that the Government will do the same again. With the Australian Wool Corporation holding over one million bales in stock, with 5 per cent of gross sale proceeds being collected to finance the market support fund and 3 per cent being collected for wool promotion and research, the sums involved are quite large. 
If the forecasts of the Australian Wool Corporation and the Government about wool prices in this world of economic uncertainty and growing trade restrictions prove wrong and the Corporation is forced to buy in substantial quantities of wool, the Government could face a substantial financial commitment. There is not necessarily any objection to that but the overall economic implications cannot be ignored. When the fixed floor price was established both the Liberal and National Country Parties and the Australian Labor Party agreed that the functions of the Australian Wool Corporation must be strictly commercial. If there are to be any social welfare measures for the wool industry they cannot be introduced through the back door of the Corporation. That stricture still applies and it would be unfortunate if any grower organisation saw movements in the floor or reserve prices as being a means of making up lost income due to seasonal variations or failures in other commodity prices or the general effects of the current economic recession. 
The wool industry relies heavily upon keeping a flow of wool onto the world market at prices that will not permit any further inroads to be made by synthetic fibre manufacturers. Thus the Corporation in setting prices must recognise the commercial reality of the simple fact that if prices move beyond real levels synthetics will make further inroads into the wool market. If the Government believes that the on-farm incomes received from wool are not high enough a separate set of measures must be taken by the Commonwealth and the State governments to remedy that position. 
I am well aware that there is growing concern from within sections of the wool growing industry and elsewhere about aspects of the operations of the Australian Wool Corporation and the International Wool Secretariat. I have heard complaints from a number of growers about the growing bureaucracy within the Corporation and its increasing remoteness from them as wool growers. This impression is heightened by a recent report in a primary industry publicationPrimary  Industry Newsletter-  which is well known in the industry. It quotes certain criticisms of the Australian Wool Corporation by the International Wool Secretariat. This is an important matter because both the growers and the Government are providing substantial funds in this area. The publication, dated 3 May, states: 
The International Wool Secretariat, 64 per cent financed by Australia is desperately worried that its message and knowledge of the job it is doing is not getting through to Australian wool growers. 
Apparently the IWS sees the Australian Wool Corporation as:   . . a stumbling block or a barrier in any effort to communicate effectively, especially as the relationship of the IWS with its owners in the grower countries forced it to use the AWC as an intermediary in most efforts to talk to Australian woolgrowers. 
Most significantly,  Dr Gerald  Laxer, the general manager of the IWS, is quoted as saying that 'he was not satisfied that both the IWS and the AWC were pulling their weight in telling the IWS story to Australian growers'. If these criticisms are correct, the Minister should quickly clarify the position both to this House and to the wool growers as it could mean that the 3 per cent contribution which this Parliament is now authorising to be collected is not being spent as well as it could be. The Minister may well be aware of the Industries Assistance Commission report on the question of financing rural product promotion. 
There is one other aspect which also gives ground for general policy concern. It is my understanding that the Minister for Primary Industry and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  have given undertakings to the shipping conferences operating out of Australia that, in order to maintain a satisfactory balance of cargoes and freight rates, wool will be shipped under the existing conference arrangements. If wool is removed from these conferences, the rates charged for meat, dairy products, apples and pears and a wide range of other commodities will have to rise substantially. I understand that the Australian Wool Corporation has arranged to have substantial quantities of wool shipped from Albany in Western Australia and east coast ports for storage at Tacoma on the West Coast of the United States. Apparently the terminal to terminal freight rates are 10c and 8c a kilogram respectively. The rates are substantially lower than quoted rates for the same service.  Mr Jim  Young, one of the senior management of the Corporation, has been quoted as saying that, while the wool is intended for the United States of America, it could be shipped to Asia. If this is correct, it has tremendous implications for our transport arrangements with Japan and other Asian countries. If wool is shipped to Asia via the United States of America, it will reduce substantially the cargo on the Australian Northbound Conference and thus worsen the present position where there is substantially more cargo coming from Asia than there is going to it. The beef industry in particular has to be concerned with the implications of such a move and what it will do to freight rates in that particular conference position. 
The Opposition is keen that wool growers should receive the best possible price for their commodity and that all organisations involved with the marketing of wool should involve themselves aggressively. However, there are times when the interests of other primary producers have to be taken into account, as do the relationships with our Japanese partners. At some stage the Opposition would like a detailed clarification of the Australian Wool Corporation's current marketing policies and the likely costs and benefits of them. I am certain that the wool growers outside the Australian Wool Industry Conference would like to receive similar details. 
The Opposition is concerned that, because of the problems in the beef cattle industry and other primary industries, some of the longer term aspects of the developments and changes in the structure of the wool industry, which continues to earn Australia about $600m in export income, have not received more public discussion and debate. The industry sustains large numbers of people in remote areas of Australia and guarantees the employment of people in a wide range of industries. The aspects which are covered by these Bills deserve the closest attention and scrutiny of the industry. For these reasons, on behalf of the Opposition, I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill the House calls upon the Government to present to Parliament and the industry a paper on the advisability of establishing a revolving market support fund '. 
We see this amendment as a test of the bona fides of the Minister for Primary Industry in his announcements to the Agricultural Outlook Conference earlier in the year. We hope that the Government can see fit to support the Opposition's amendment. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (8.15)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I second the amendment. I support the Wool Industry Amendment Bill and the Wool Tax Amendment Bills (Nos 1 to 5) because there are many good reasons why we should extend the statutory accounting provisions in respect of the floor price scheme for wool to include the 1978-79 wool season. I believe that it was the intention of the Government at the time when the Wool Industry Bill was first introduced that this should be a continuing provision. I cannot understand the statement of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in his second reading speech, wherein he said that the floor price arrangement introduced in 1974 was designed to operate for the 1974-75 season only. I do not believe that this was the intention. It was the intention of the Government at that time that this would be a continuing scheme. 
Of course, the finance and accounting position had to be restricted to one season because of the fixed floor price and the amount of levy necessary to cover the floor price at that time. But it was anticipated that the floor price would have to be increased as the inflationary spiral took place. Therefore, that provision was included in the Bill. But it was never intended that the scheme itself should continue for only one year. I remember representatives of the wool industry saying on that occasion that the scheme, as introduced by the Labor Government, was a milestone in the history of the wool industry. Of course that is what history has proved it to be: A milestone along the road of security for wool producers. In spite of the knockers at that time, no one in his right mind would want to go back to that position. As a matter of fact,  Mr Van  Bibra who had some respect and some authority in the wool industry at the time was right when he said: 
The floor price scheme represents a milestone in the history of the wool industry. After very many years of dissension and debate within the industry and within the government we now have a commercially viable marketing proposal which can overcome the crippling uncertainty that has been evident in recent times in the wool market. That in itself will be of enormous relief to wool producers and wool users around the world. 
I certainly think that there was every justification for such remarks because, after many years of dissension and debate, a Labor government gave to the industry some kind of security, by setting up a scheme that guaranteed a floor price which was completely justified on commercial terms, and one which offered the growers of this country a reasonable level of income when the going was tough. Of course it did not represent a revolutionary change in wool marketing: It represented simply an insurance to keep prices at a certain level. 
Whatever criticism was made in the intervening years, I have never heard anybody either in this House or outside it say that they wanted to go back to the previous scheme of deficiency payments whereby the government came to the party when prices dropped below 36c a lb. Of course they would be very foolish if they did want such a situation. The Wool Tax Acts were amended to impose a 5 per cent levy on the sale of wool by growers in 1974-75. It was to provide a reserve for meeting any losses that might arise out of the floor price arrangement. Of course what has not been mentioned here tonight is that the Government at that time had to guarantee $150m to start the scheme as the Wool Industry Act had to be amended to provide for the establishment of a market support fund. Now that the market support fund is in a healthy financial position it should become a revolving fund operating, say, over a period of seven years whereby those who entered in the first year would have their money refunded. New members would come in in the seventh year and so the fund would revolve and the money would always be there. I believe that this is in line with the amendment moved by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  and it is supported by the Wool Industry Conference. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  mentioned this in his second-reading speech when he said: 
I shall be discussing the proposals with representatives of the Conference at an early date in the context of broader discussions on a range of wool marketing issues. If these discussions lead to the development of a suitable scheme under which repayments could be made to growers on an agreed basis, detailed records of levy payments will be required for the operation of the scheme. It is likely that any legislation to implement a repayments arrangement would contain compulsory provisions requiring wool-selling brokers and other wool traders to maintain and make available records of levy payments made by individual growers. All brokers and wool merchants therefore would be very wise to maintain records of wool levy payments. I understand that most already do so. 
It seems very unusual that the Minister should use this as a basis for delaying payments to woolgrowers of money that is rightly theirs. Whatever scheme of repayment is adopted, there is no justification for locking up this money. The growers have every right to claim it. They took some risk in the first instance. If the scheme had not worked they could have sacrificed the levy they had paid, but now that the scheme has justified their confidence and has come good there is no justification for not paying back the money. They should not have been asked to set up the scheme in the first instance and to contribute towards it if in the future their money is to go to anyone who enters the scheme later. It is a very flimsy statement for the Minister to say that some of the wool brokers or wool merchants may not have kept proper records. Surely if it is a worthwhile scheme they would have been keeping proper records. I do not believe that they have not kept proper records. If the scheme had been policed by the Government in the way that it should have been proper records would have been kept and the growers would be in a position now to obtain a refund of the money they have contributed to it. Regardless of that, I support the further statement of the Minister for Primary Industry when he said: 
There is no doubt that that confidence has been more than justified in the overall tenor of the wool industry, which has improved so significantly since the days of the late 1960s when the competitiveness of synthetic fibres began to erode the price position of wool in the fibre market. 
There can be no argument with that statement. Everyone would recognise that fact. The Minister later in his second-reading speech once again spoilt this statement with more double talk when he spoke about the level of the floor price. The Minister seems to claim credit for the fact that the price is not to be reduced to less than the present level of 284c per kilogram clean. It must be remembered that during that period there has been a big inflationary spiral and devaluation of the dollar, which was the main reason why the price was adjusted to 284c. The Government is treating the wool industry in a pretty mean manner. When the floor price was set at 250c a kilogram in 1974 there were all kinds of protests from Liberal and Country Party members. However, when in government they have found a way to reduce effectively the level, when one takes into account the value of real money, inflation and the devaluation of the dollar. 
The five Wool Tax Bills simply extend the operation of the special 5 per cent levy until 30 June 1978. I do not believe that anyone could complain about that provision. There can be no doubt that the floor price scheme has done much to assist woolgrowers. However, there are many other things apart from the market price that are detrimental to the woolgrowers' welfare. One matter is interest rates. Woolgrowers inform me that their overdraft interest has been increased from 8 per cent in 1971 to 10.5 per cent in 1977. Many woolgrowers have been forced to borrow money during the drought. The price they have to pay for this money over a period has brought many farmers to their knees. Because they make up a very small part of the total demand for borrowing money they have little influence on the price that they have to pay for it. It is often claimed that the forces of supply and demand work freely. We all know that they do not. The money market is subject to many forms of imperfection. 
I ask the question: How can a farmer with an investment return of 6 per cent borrow money at 10 per cent interest and survive? Everyone knows that to do so would be financial suicide. For this reason the Government should give serious consideration to paying back the money that the growers have paid into this levy. At a time of severe conditions why should they be forced to borrow money at much higher interest rates when already they have money tied up with the Government which should be refunded to them. Some woolgrowers have considerable amounts tied up in the market support fund. It is unjust that they should be allowed to go bankrupt when money that rightly belongs to them is held through lack of government concern or through the failure of wool brokers or wool traders to maintain records of payments made by woolgrowers in the form of levies, as indicated by the Minister for Primary Industry. Because of the importance of the wool industry to the Australian economy there is an urgent need for the Commonwealth to tackle the serious economic problems of the industry with the object of formulating constructive action to enable the industry to regain its former viable position. I ask the Minister to consider the matters that I have put before the House. 
-This proposal does not have the support of the Opposition because it provides an unwarranted basis of attack upon the New South Wales Premier. For the first time in two and a half years, when there has been a bit of Press speculation over an issue, the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  has come in to snap at the heels of the New South Wales Premier, a man who this week has been shown to have the support of 80 per cent of the people of New South Wales. He should treat the honourable member with the contempt that is due to him and take no notice whatsoever of his forbodings. There is an expression that the dogs may bark but the caravan moves on. The dogs may bark on the other side of the House but the caravan of the New South Wales Government will go on in prosperity to another successful election. Let us look at the proposition that has been raised today. 
Let us look at the problem. Two problems are involved with coal loading in New South Wales: Firstly, the inadequacy of capacity aggravated by massive stockpiles; and, secondly, an industrial dispute which has been threatening the capacity of the system. Let us just analyse those two things, particularly the industrial dispute which basically has come about because the maintenance staff, the skilled people who kept the coal loader working, were receiving less remuneration than the unskilled people who were operating it. That was the basis of the dispute. Who can settle the dispute- the New South Wales Premier and nobody else. It certainly cannot be settled by the intervention of the Federal Government. The issue of coal loading has not been an acute issue in New South Wales. It has been acute only in the last two weeks. Why is there a problem? 
The honourable member was heard in comparative silence and he should do me the same honour. Why has the problem become acute in the last two weeks? There are two reasons and two reasons only. Firstly, the size of the cutback in coal purchases by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd because of the reduction in steel production and exports to Japan, which were negotiated by the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony).  This has resulted simply in a massive glut of coal in the New South Wales coal industry, which is now being sold at spot prices and which is now demanding immediate access for the whole lot of the excess capacity to a porting system and a coal loading system which were designed to average out the loads and the tonnages over a 12 month period. That is the basis of the present problem; not an inadequacy in the size of the system but the failure of the policies of the Federal Government which has resulted in BHP steel production being down 24 per cent on last year- 1.2 million tons of finished steel products- which is now less than the production level of 1 973-74. 
What has been the effect of the BHP cutback? Unlike the honourable member for Macarthur, I have been in touch with the company to find out the basis for its cutbacks. There has been a 1.7 million ton cutback in coal which had previously been supplied by the south coast and western district mines of New South Wales. What has happened to that 1.7 million tons of coal? It has been stockpiled for sale and export overseas. Now the companies are trying to push the 1.7 million tons through a coal loading facility which of course was never designed- to handle that amount. That is the basis of the dispute. BHP is now exporting 44 per cent of its steel products overseas and it is doing it to save the jobs and the viability of the Australian steel industry. But why does it have to save them? Because of the disastrous languishing state of the Australian economy, because the Austraiian economy is failing to grow- it was even growing negatively in the last quarter of last year- and because of the contraction in the economy, steel production is down and the steel production which is not available for sale domestically is of course being exported to other countries. 
That deals with the domestic position. Now let us look at the international position. Kembla Coal and Coke Pty Ltd, and the Bellambi Coal Co. Ltd in particular, have coal running out of their ears and that was so even before the massive BHP cutbacks. Why was the coal coming out of their ears. Because of the failure of the Fraser Government to look after Australia's interests in Tokyo. When the Minister for Trade and Resources and, not long after, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  trudged through Tokyo, they were politely given a firm no by the Japanese steel industry and were told that they would have to tolerate the cutbacks in imports from Australia and particularly from New South Wales. The Japanese technique is a case of like it or lump it because if we disagreed with them they do not send ships to pick up the coal. What kind of a protest do we hear from the Minister for Trade and Resources,  Mr Anthony?  Nothing at all; he came back and announced to the industry that it will just have to tighten its belt. 
What has happened? It has the greatest accumulation of coal of any coal companies in the world; not just in Australia. Sensibly, the companies are now trying offshore to sell that massive stockpile. I will give some indication of the nature of the sales. Kembla Coal and Coke is selling coking coal to Pakistan at $A32 a ton while the normal going price in Japan is $A54 a ton. That is a bargain basement price to shift the coal out. Because it is being sold by spot sales and not long term sales the coal must be shifted immediately and because it has to be shifted immediately the companies all want port facilities at the same time. But the port facilities are not designed to take that kind of tonnage and therefore we have a glut. The New South Wales Government, rather than not responding to the problem, is even prepared to have the coal shipped through the Balmain port up to Newcastle where of course there is a new coal loader. 
The alternative-for my friend who interjects- is to see a continuation of the stockpiles which of course involves massive amounts of money which will finally jeopardise the viability of Kembla Coal and Coke, and particularly Bellambi Coal, and in some respects some of the companies in the western district. 
The honourable member knows nothing about the New South Wales coal industry. He is a little publicist with a big mouth who comes in here just chanting slogans. He knows nothing about the issue or the industry and has no genuine interest in it. 

 -Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That the business of the day be called upon. 
-The Government observed the courtesy of giving the Opposition two hours notice of the statement. However, given the import of it and the impact on the Australian uranium industry I think it would have been reasonable if the Government had demonstrated some confidence in the confidentiality that the Opposition would observe and had given it much prior notice of a statement of this nature. This statement details the Government's approach to the approval of new export contracts and, dubiously, outlines the machinery for future export arrangements. The statement asserts things which are arguable and, in some respects, not correct. 
Early in the statement the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  referred to the adequacy of bilateral safeguard agreements; yet the Parliament has, at this stage, not been given the right to examine the model safeguard agreement. When asked about this question, the Government constantly says that the model reflects details of the statement made in relation to safeguards last year by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  If that is the case, why cannot the model be examined? The model is in the hands of 22 other governments around the world, yet it is not considered competent for the Opposition to look at it. As well as that, it seems that there are other questions relating to safeguards that have not been examined. For instance, in what circumstances would the Government permit enrichment or reprocessing? On that answer rests the whole policy. Does the Government allow Australian uranium to be made into weaponsusable material and kept in national hands? Apparently it does, because we have heard nothing from the Government about that. 

 Mr Justice Fox, who was referred to by the Minister in his statement on the International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation, does not engage in the substance of negotiatons with other countries. He is holed up in an office in London somewhere, while these things go ahead and does not engage in the substance of the INFCE. If  Mr Justice  Fox has opinions and if he is appointed to engage in safeguard negotiation agreements, why are his opinions not public? Why are they not expressed here so that honourable members can have a debate about his opinions? The International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation began in October 1977, but we have not had any report from the Government since that date on what it had to say at that evaluation or what conclusions have so far come from it. We have heard nothing of that. Yet, we are to accept blandly all the notions the Minister proposes in his statement on safeguards. It is preposterous that the Australian Parliament will never be in a position to make a comparison between the model safeguard agreements and any agreements signed bilaterally between Australia and prospective customer countries. It is only by the comparison which we would make that we could see whether the Government has held to the integrity of the safeguard policy or moved away from that policy. 
The Minister went to great pains to mention the question of orderly development. In his previous statement about Pancontinental Mining Ltd the Minister made a mockery of any notion of orderly development expressed here and made a mockery of any commitment to the recommendations in the Fox report about orderly development. I refer the Minister to the statement he made on 12 May in relation to the Jabiluka mining project. He said: 
Although looking to the eventual development of the Jabiluka uranium deposit, the Government is nevertheless committed to not making a final decision on whether the Jabiluka project should proceed until the environmental effects of the project, both physical and social, is satisfied . . . 
The Minister went on to say: 
Subject to the EIS on the extension of the Arnhem Highway, the Government is prepared to allow Pancontinental Mining to construct the extension of the Highway. 
He went on further to say: 
Therefore, if development of the Jabiluka project is approved in due course, and the land becomes Aboriginal land . . . 
The Minister then spoke about Aboriginal issues. The statement made quite clear the intention of the Government to go along with Jabiluka, an intention which, I believe, is not shared by the Prime Minister. Apparently the Prime Minister is more concerned about the environmental impact upon the Magela Creek system and the East Alligator River region than is the Deputy Prime Minister. I shall quote from the Fox report precisely what is said about orderly development and contrast it with what the Minister has said today. At page 1 77 the Fox report states: 
The evidence indicates that, provided no export income was lost, the policy that would maximise economic returns would be to proceed with full-scale development of one mine followed by the mining of other areas when demand expanded. This development strategy seems particularly appropriate in the Region as it should also minimise adverse environmental effects. 
At the same page it continues: 
The marketing authority recommended in Chapter 19 would be in a position to monitor market trends, making it possible to identify appropriate times for increasing the rate of production in Australia and bringing other mines into operation. 
The Government may wish to consider the possibility of compensating the shareholders of companies which experience delays in achieving returns on earlier investments. Initially, this could be done by providing for some share of profits from the Ranger venture to be distributed to other companies. However, this is a matter of government policy. 
At page 322 the report continues: 
If the Ranger project proceeds, but the Pancontinental one does not, the problem, with care, will probably not become acute. If the Pancontinental mine is also developed, the position could become unacceptable. We have recommended courses designed to minimise the risk and in particular have recommended that the position be progressively reexamined in the light of experience. 
That is hardly a firm recommendation for the development of Pancontinental; yet the Government will go ahead knowing that in the Magela Creek system there will be two tailings dams, two acid plants, two slake lime plants, and, if one reads aspects of the Fox report about the impact of seepage and the amount of water seepage from the dams, assessments of both Ranger and Pancontinental in the Magela Creek system, obviously the Government even given the fact that it is prepared to go ahead with uranium mining in Australia, in clear contrast to the policy of the Opposition, should proceed only with Ranger and not Pancontinental. The only difference would be a larger tailings dam with higher walls and a duplication of the ball mills, acid plants and everything else, which would not take up very much more space than does the present proposal for Ranger. So there will be no orderly development of the Government's policy. The whole notion of orderly development is fallacious. As I have said, the Government intends to go in there on a snatch and grab basis in order to ensure that Pancontinental gets the run right through with Ranger so that it can start mining as soon as possible. 
The Minister mentioned the marketing authority. The Fox Commission recommends that the marketing authority should advise the Government when the start-up dme for a second mine and subsequent mines should be permitted. One might ponder the question: Why is not the legislation setting up the marketing authority being introduced now? Surely the Government has had time to consider the problems associated with anti-trust legislation in other countries and to bring in its legislation. The answer surely must be that whilst there is some argument between the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the present Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  about Pancontinental, they both want to give Ranger the go-ahead. If Pancontinental gets the go-ahead, some 7,000 tonnes of uranium a year will be pumped into the Western markets of the world. There will be a production level of 15,000 tonnes a year. Those two mines will increase world production by 50 per cent. That does not take into account new mines in other countries entering into the market. Of course, all this will be done before the marketing authority is established. That is another clear abrogation of the Fox Commission's recommendations. The Government says that it always observes the recommendations of the Fox Commission. 
The Fox Commission made a clear recommendation in chapter 19 of its report for the establishment of a marketing authority. The Minister made it clear that he intends to establish a marketing authority. The question is when it will be established. It will be established after the Government has facilitated the start-up of the Ranger and Pancontinental mines and after the contracts have been written in relation to supplies from those mines. By the time they are mined out, the present Acting Prime Minister, the Prime Minister and I will have long left the political scene. Before the time arrives when we will really need a third deposit in Australia, we will be able to put our glasses down because the horse will have well and truly bolted. 
The Minister in his statement made a good case for the marketing authority. He talked about control over quantities for export, adherence to Australian Government safeguard policy, terms and duration of contracts, methods of shipment, price, and the use of uranium. He said that producers will need to seek ministerial approval before making any firm offers or entering into any legal commitments. Given the fact that the Government wishes to proceed with the export of uranium, these are perfectly reasonable aims. I do not disagree with the Government in that regard. But why does not the Minister introduce the legislation? That is the point. Why is not the legislation before the Parliament? He says that the Department of Trade and Resources will be able to perform these functions in the interim. Certainly it will, but Ranger has yet to enter into contracts. Ranger's only contracts are the pre- 1972 contracts which are presently being met from Mary Kathleen and the stockpiles. Ranger will have to enter into new contracts. If 
Pancontinental embarks upon site preparation and construction it will need to look at contracts designed to finance its debt servicing obligations. Therefore, presumably all of those contracts will be written only on the basis that the supervision will come from the Department and the Minister and not from the marketing authority. Certainly the marketing authority will not have been established by the time any of these contracts are entered into. The Minister said in his statement: 
I envisage that at the appropriate time in our progress with uranium development a uranium export authority should be established to be charged with the duty of advising the Minister for Trade and Resources . . . 
When is the appropriate time? The appropriate time is now and not later. The statement really can be summed up in this way: The Minister is engaged in a debate about existing export controls versus new legislation. That is fair enough. That is really just gabble. Whether we have export controls in the present form or whether we have a new piece of legislation is not really a matter of great contention. In his statement the Minister seems to me to have said: 'We need a marketing authority. Fox recommended a marketing authority. We will get one but not now. In the meantime I will set up Ranger and Pancontinental. I will approve the contracts. I will give the right to mine. I will approve the environmental standards in the Magela Creek and East Alligator Rivers Region. By the time all that is done, the marketing authority can be established and can occupy its time with debates within the industry after it has already been established by me'. 
That is what the Minister said today. If he wants to do that, let him acknowledge that he is clearly flying in the face of the Fox Commission's recommendations. We on this side of the House once again bask in the cynicism with which the Government has moved towards its uranium development and export policy. Whilst we on this side of the House would like to believe that the Government is maintaining the integrity shown in its announced statement last year, it cannot do that because we have not seen the model agreement or any subsequent agreements. So, on the safeguards side, we are not satisfied with what the Government is doing and, on the development side, the Government intends to go ahead without establishing the necessary facilities or mechanisms which were recommended by the Fox Commission. Therefore we find that the statement is just another indication of the 
Government's contempt for the general recommendations of the Fox report and that it intends to go ahead regardless of the cogent opposition to the premature development of Australia 's uranium deposits. 
The Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  moved that the House take note of the paper. I hope that by moving that motion the Government intended to indicate that it wants to have a debate on this issue. Certainly I have spoken for only 10 or 15 minutes. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. I hope that other honourable members on this side of the House will have an opportunity to participate fully in the debate on what is probably one of the most important statements the Government has yet made on the development of Australia's uranium deposits. 
-The Government at the time of its last Budget foreshadowed the introduction of a secondary taxing structure, a resources tax to be levied upon the oil production industry and the prospective uranium industry. At the same time it announced an increase in the price of crude oil on a formula that permitted up to 10 per cent of crude oil production in certain locations to be priced at import parity. It was in the context of this increase in crude oil pricing and the consequent boost to corporate revenues that the Government promised the introduction of this secondary tax mechanism. 
On 1 July this year, under the terms of last year's policy, certain oil producing companies will be permitted to price an additional 10 per cent of their production at import parity- that is a cumulative 20 per cent of their production priced at world parity. Although 1 July is now not far away, we have heard nothing definite from the Government about the introduction of its promised secondary tax. Is it to be yet another election promise, another clear abrogation of a specific undertaking to be broken by this Government? 
The permissible 20 per cent crude oil production priced at import parity will provide a massive increment to corporate profits without any significant increase in costs. The increases will be something of the order of $ 120m on top of the massive increase of $ 150m given last year by the Government by way of the first stage implementation of its pricing policy. It is true that there would be a handsome increase in company tax liability on the additional profits, but this is not of sufficient magnitude, given the enormous profit generation. 
If the Government is not prepared to introduce a secondary tax simultaneously with the 1 July, 10 per cent increment, then there should be no increment until the tax mechanism is established. This view does not deny the validity of the claim that marginal pools of oil cannot be developed at $2.33 per barrel. Of course some reserves are small and difficult to mine and will require capital investment that would be uneconomic at $A2.33 per barrel. That is without dispute. But last year's increase certainly takes care of this problem with the average price per barrel being raised well beyond $A3 per barrel. Any further increase is but fruit for the sideboard, that will not be swallowed up exclusively in developing known marginal pools. 
It must be remembered that these increases in prices are granted by express government decision which provides revenues to companies at the public expense. As these increases are in no way linked to the cost of production there is a clear obligation on the part of the Government to see that the financial rewards reaped from the mining of a national asset are divided equitably between business and the community. Some will argue, and to some extent cogently, that the low pricing of indigenous crude oil will lead to the profligate use of this finite valuable resource, where higher priced crude oil will be conserved if the price is increased. In the broad sweep of long term energy pricing I would certainly support this view. However, given the inelasticity of demand with, say, motor sport, I do not believe that a slow climb to import parity pricing for indigenous crude oil from existing fields will in any significant way change the pattern of consumption. 
Should there be a justification for the slow climb towards import parity, it must be that marginal oil pools could then be developed and that cash flows will be enhanced to provide funds for new intensive exploration for oil and gas, particularly off-shore. Certainly Australia's two most successful energy companies, the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and Esso Australia Ltd should be encouraged to turn their expertise and resources towards new exploration endeavours. Obviously expanded cash flows from their Gippsland operations could facilitate new ambitious exploration. This should be one of the prime motivations for a change in the Government's oil pricing policy. But allowing for these objectives it is clear that even with a secondary tax there would be a sufficient residue of after tax funds in the hands of these companies to finance new exploration and development. Already one year of incremental earnings from the new pricing policy has provided handsome dividends to oil companies in Australia that have not been subject to secondary tax and which can be used for the new developments currently being undertaken. 
World parity pricing is the creation of a handful of Middle East governments. It in no way represents the costs of production. In fact, about 93 per cent of the world parity is made up of Arab state royalties and taxes. Australian companies cannot claim import parity for their produce and take the enormous cash flows to their breasts as though in some way it represented their costs of production. Import parity is what we have to pay for oil if we do not have sufficient of our own. It is thus important that our energy pricing structure should relate to the world market in this commodity if we are to have a national basis for development and consumption. 
This does not mean, however, that our energy companies are to be treated to a feast because they happened upon oil reserves prior to the Arab oil price hikes of 1973. There should be no further increases in crude oil prices until there is a proper division of the wealth between the producers and the public. The cost burden and the inflationary impact of crude oil price increases should not be borne by the motorist, the farmer, the manufacturer and the consumer to the exclusive advantage of a handful of companies, without there being an acceptable quid pro quo. We on this side of the House urge the Government to give notice of the introduction of legislation to establish the promised secondary tax and to do so before there are further increases in the price of indigenous crude oil. 
Uncertainty will be the major impact of a continuing delay in the introduction of such legislation. In the past uncertainty has been the most crippling factor in oil exploration in this country. Whichever way the Government moves it should be to establish once and for all what kind of tax mechanism will be imposed upon this industry. Of course, we on this side of the House recognise that there must be a greater exploration activity in Australia. This year there are promising signs of renewed exploration effort which could identify new fields in Australia. Obviously, that exploration cannot be developed in perpetuity at $2.33 per barrel. That is why both major parties believe that new fields ought to be priced at import parity. That is the price we would pay for oil which we did not have ourselves. The exploration effort needs to be maintained and encouraged. Cash flows from the old fields, particularly for companies involved in oil production from existing fields, can facilitate a much greater and more concentrated exploration effort on their part. 
The problem with Australia's deficiency in liquid fuels is that our demand is rising faster than our potential supplies. Whilst the recently announced increments to reserves, particularly in the Gippsland area, are welcome they will permit only a continuance of the current level of production from the Gippsland fields for three to four years beyond the time it was expected that production from those fields would decline seriously. Until the middle 1980s Gippsland production will remain fairly static. But the demand is growing constantly. The yawning gap between demand and production in Australia will mean that Australia will be required to import more and more Middle East crude. Middle East crude is a heavy gravity oil. That means that after cracking only a small proportion of motor spirit will be obtained compared with the light indigenous Australian crude oil. This will mean, therefore, that Australia will need to start looking again at its refining capacity and the possibility of conversion refineries. I recall from the report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum that the cost of the eleventh refinery in Australia, a conversion refinery, will equal the cost of the previous ten. These are the consequences of not identifying enough indigenous oil reserves in Australia. 
Our immediate approach to energy has to be to try to identify more reserves and, at the same time, look specifically for natural gas. I do not suggest for one moment that we should try to do this by keeping the price of energy depressed. I have always thought that fixed prices are clear inhibitors to exploration and development. However, Moonie and Barrow Island and particularly Bass Strait are currently producing at such a level that when prices were increased from $2.09 a barrel to $2.33 a barrel in 1975 the oil companies were to a large measure compensated for the inflationary erosion of their cash flows. Their investment expectations in 1968 were maintained. I know that marginal pools cannot be developed for $2.33 a barrel and that new exploration in the Gippsland area will not be undertaken at that price. However, the price rise which has already been granted facilitates more exploration but the increases which the Government is now giving which in no way place an additional cost on the company mean massive cash flows at a time when other groups in the community are suffering the deprivation of serious cutbacks in government outlays. 
We are not denying the companies the increases. We take the line which the Industries Assistance Commission took a couple of years ago that the increases were warranted in the company of a secondary taxing structure. That is our argument with the Government. If it continues with its policy and increases the price of oil on 1 July by an additional 10 per cent of the production price at import parity that increase should be made in the company of a resources tax. The Government has had almost 18 months to think about this tax after the IAC reported to it on crude oil pricing. It is now the responsibility of the Government to bring legislation into the House, to demonstrate its bona fides and to fulfil the promise it made in the last Budget introduced by the then Treasurer,  Mr Lynch.  In those circumstances we would lift any objection we have to a slow rise to 50 per cent import parity, particularly for the Gippsland field. 
I direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Resources. Did he hear a radio news report today in which  Sir Charles  Court was reported as saying that the Yeelirrie uranium deposit in Western Australia would be developed before Ranger because there will be no bureaucratic interference, and that Western Australia is planning for the installation of a nuclear power reactor? Has the Minister any knowledge of these proposals? Does he approve the development of the Yeelirrie deposit and has the Federal Government approved, or is it likely to approve, the construction of a nuclear power station in Western Australian. 
I direct a question, which relates to the question asked by the honourable member for Bendigo, to the Minister for Construction as Minister assisting the Minister for Defence. Did the Minister state in a recent Press release that the Australian Services Canteens Organisation would be closed because of successive trading losses but the employees would be retained? Has he since become aware that ASCO has traded profitably for the last 5 years and would he explain why the managing director of ASCO has notified employees- about 1,000 of them- in writing that they will be retrenched, of course with a loss of full superannuation rights and other benefits? Finally, will the Government reconsider its decision to disband ASCO before any winding down of the organisation occurs? 
-This debate now becomes a general debate covering the three cognate pieces of legislation. The principal amending legislation is the Dairy Industry Stabilization Amendment Bill. The other two Bills are consequential to this piece of legislation. They are the Dairy Industry Stabilization Levy Amendment Bill and the Dairy Produce Amendment Bill. I will deal specifically with the main piece of legislation, the Dairy Industry Stabilization Amendment Bill, which is designed to provide for the implementation of the principles of stage 2 of the marketing arrangements for the dairy industry from 1 July 1978 through a system of selective underwriting. The major reason for the introduction of the legislation is the depressed state of the Australian dairy industry and the upheaval within the industry flowing from depressed international markets for manufactured milk products. This has arisen largely because of the common agricultural policy of the 
European Economic Community, particularly the subsidisation of uneconomic production which has been stockpiled. In the last couple of years that production has been released on the world markets wreaking havoc upon the international manufactured milk industry. 
The implications for the Australian dairy industry have been substantial. The Government has introduced some change in its proposals to deal with the reconstruction of the dairy industry. Stage 1 was introduced on 1 July 1977. It provided for the imposition of a levy to protect the domestic price structure to allow each manufacturer an equalised return on both domestic and export sales. This Bill provides for the objective of selective underwriting to tailor production with proper markets. That is the position in theory. Whether that will happen in fact is another matter. The underwriting policy will aim at reducing production of less profitable products while encouraging increased production of more profitable products, such as fresh milk products, whole milk powder, et cetera. At this stage in the debate I move the Opposition's amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Dairy Industry Stabilization Amendment Bill: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not opposing the Bill, the House calls upon the Minister for Primary Industry to explain how quantitative limits will be imposed at factory level without State  Government  co-operation '. 
We move that amendment because it appears that the major State concerned in this matter, Victoria, has in fact run out on the proposals of the Federal Government in terms of this underwriting or quota scheme to establish levels of production from various factories throughout Australia. I shall read from an article, which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  of 31 May, which sums up the situation. The article is headed 'State goes it alone on dairy scheme' and reads: 
The State Government has decided not to join the Federal Government 's new dairy underwriting scheme. 
Instead, it will set up its own assistance scheme to ensure Victorian dairy farmers receive a level of $ 1 .76 per kg butterfat on prescribed dairy products already underwritten by the Federal Government to $ 1 .65 per kg. 
Outlining the scheme to the annual conference of the United Dairyfarmers of Victoria yesterday, the State Agriculture Minister,  Mr Smith,  said his Government would direct funds to farmers through the Victorian Dairy Industry Authority to make up the difference in price. 
Two weeks ago, the Federal Government announced the scheme, for the 1978-79 season, saying it would be prepared to underwrite prescribed products to a level of $1.76 if the States would share the total cost on a $2 to $ 1 basis. 
Alternatively, if the States did not take up the offer, the Commonwealth would meet the full cost of underwriting butter, skim milk powder, casein, cheese and whole milk powder at the equivalent of $ 1 .65 per kg at the farm gate. 
This makes a mockery of the intent of the legislation. Yet the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is persisting with the introduction of legislation to effect quantitative restrictions on butter production to fulfil the stage 2 objectives, knowing full well that in fact Victoria is not going to be a party to it. Some time ago- on 28 Aprilanother report, which is still relevant to this matter, appeared in the Melbourne  Age.  I think that knowledge of this is required of honourable members. Under the heading 'Underwriting could be $20m ', the article states: 
How much will the Federal Government offer the Australian Dairy industry as an 'underwriting'? 
According to some industry estimates ( based on projected output figures and price expectations supplied by the Australian Dairy Corporation), the 'need' could be as high as $40m for 1978-79. 
It is unlikely, however, that the Federal Government will agree to put up much more than half of this. 
This week the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  announced that the Federal Government was giving consideration to a system of selective underwriting of dairy products as an alternative to the failed second stage of dairy industry marketing arrangements. 
The failure came when Victoria's Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Ian  Smith, strongly backed by the. Victorian dairy industry - 
Listen to this,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  gave the Federal Government's national dairy plan the raspberry. 
Under the sub-heading 'secrecy' the article continued: 
Since then,  Mr Sinclair  has been excluding  Mr Smith  from his discussions on alternatives. 
When consulting Victorian dairy industry people about such plans,  Mr Sinclair  has been swearing them to secrecy. 
As a result, the Victorian Government appears to be hearing about  Mr Sinclair's  plans secondhand from Victorian Federal politicians. 
The on-going 'marketing arrangement' charade reached a high point yesterday when 'a working party of the standing committee of agriculture' (an offshoot of the Australian Agricultural Council) met in Canberra ' for an urgent investigation and report'. 
What may come from the Canberra meeting- from which heads of departments report back to Ministers- is an underwriting formula which could pump $20m or slightly more into sustaining the national dairy industry. 
And that has uncomfortable shades of the old dairy industry subsidy- which has since been railed against as overly protecting the industry from market forces! 
So here we have legislation to introduce quantitative restrictions on the production of" milk products in factories throughout Australia when the major dairy State will have nothing to do with the arrangement. In our amendment we ask the Minister to come into the House and to explain how the Government can enforce quantitative limits on production at the factory level without State government co-operation. 
The Government has in mind that quantitative restrictions will be applied also to butter byproducts, such as skim milk powder and casein. But the quantity of butter to be underwritten in 1978-79 will be limited to 96,000 tonnes. Manufacturers will be free to choose whether they produce skim milk powder or casein. Of course, it is understood that over-quota production will receive only the average export pool return. An amount of 96,000 tonnes represents about 84 per cent of the two-year average of production and, I believe, about 87 per cent of the estimated production for 1977-78. The underwriting for butter will be allocated on the basis of each factory's production in the base period. That is how the plan will operate, if, of course, the States agree to it. 
The Commonwealth Government has announced its preparedness to finance the underwriting on a $2 for $1 basis- the $2 representing the Commonwealth contributionfor butter, skim milk powder, casein, cheese and whole milk powder at the equivalent of 80c per lb butterfat at the farm gate for the 1978-79 season. If, as I said earlier, the States fail to take up the offer the Commonwealth will meet the equivalent of only 75c per lb butterfat. As we know, the whole issue rests on the acceptance by the States of this proposal. Presumably Victoria has signalled its punch that it is not going to be in the scheme. So the Commonwealth is hoping to threaten the Victorian dairy industry and the Victorian Government by saying that the Commonwealth will underwrite the equivalent of only 75c per lb butterfat and the balance will have to be found by the Victorian Government or the Victorian dairy industry. Of course, as we know, there is so much dissention between the Country Party in Victoria and the National Country Party in this Parliament- between the Victorian Minister for Agriculture and the Federal Minister for Primary Industry- that the State is not prepared to do any business with Canberra on this issue. The Victorian Government has made it quite clear- as is indicated in the Press release on the Federal Government's announcement, which was published in the Melbourne  Age  on 3 1 May, which I read- that it will go it alone and ensure that there is an underwriting of $1.76 per kg of butterfat and will pay the difference over and above the $ 1 .65 per kg or 75c per lb which the Commonwealth is prepared to pay under this scheme. Another devastating little admission, which I think bears noting, appeared in the Minister's second reading speech. He said: 
The marketing arrangements which have operated for many years for manufactured dairy products have tended to operate against product innovation and the development of effective marketing techniques. 
Just a few minutes ago, during the debate on a  matter of  public importance relating to agriculture which we brought before the House, the Minister extolled the virtues of the dairy industry subsidy which was phased out. Yet in this second reading speech- I paraphrase what he said- he said that it was the dairy industry subsidy-- 
That is what he said. He said that it was the dairy industry subsidy - 
That is not what he said. 
The reasonable alternative was a $2 5 m dairy reconstruction scheme, or did the honourable member for Eden-Monaro miss that slight fact? Was he not conscious of that fact? 
The honourable member should have known that that was what I was referring to. 
Honourable members opposite should just keep their places; they will have a chance to participate in the debate a little later. They should just shut up. 
Honourable members opposite should just shut up for a while. The point is this: The Minister tacitly admits that it was the dairy bounty- that indiscriminate bountywhich operated for many years to protect the industry against market forces. Anybody who mentioned phasing out the dairy bounty was touching sacrosanct ground. But what have we seen over a period? The dairy farmers were led up the garden path. Between the early 1 970s and the late 1970s the dairy farmer population in Australia has been halved because of the disastrous policies which have been followed by a succession of Liberal-Country Party governments, particularly because of the policies of the 
National Country Party which wants to capitalise gains and socialise losses. But in the socialising of losses - 
We put in $25m, as we did with the wool industry. We put our money where our mouth was. We provided $370m to stabilise the wool industry and we provided $2 5 m for the dairy reconstruction scheme. That is more than this Government ever provided. 
The honourable member for Murray lives in Victoria. He has seen dairy farmers walk off their farms. What has he done about it? The Victorian Government walked right out on this Government. 
I raise an aspect of clause 6 of the Dairy Industry Stabilization Amendment Bill on which the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  might wish to expatiate. Clause 6(3) states: 
Where the Minister has determined quotas in respect of factories for a production period in respect of dairy products of a particular kind or particular kinds, a stabilisation payment is not payable in respect of dairy products of that kind.  or of any of those kinds, produced at a factory during that period unless the factory is a factory in respect of which such a quota has been determined. 
In the Minister's reply to the Opposition's amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill he did not make abundantly clear whether it will be the Commonwealth which will be able to fix the quota of a factory. It seems to us that the blanket underwriting of 75c per lb of butterfat would be indiscriminate and would not be a disincentive to overproduction of certain commodities, such as butter, and an encouragement for the production of other more desirable commodities, such as fresh milk products and whole milk powder, if the' scheme could be flouted by the fact that a State might not fix quotas and might not participate in the scheme. 
Whilst the Minister might say that he has had no contact with the Victorian Government, the point is that the Victorian Government might be so contemptuous of the scheme that it does not intend to contact him. In the view of the Victorian Government its Press statements might suffice as an indication that it will not accede to becoming part of the scheme in respect of the Victorian industry. As the Victorian manufactured milk industry is the largest in Australia, it would seem to us to be important that Victoria should be involved in the scheme. Can the Minister fix the quotas for each factory; or is the amount of 95,000 tonnes fixed as a general quota for the Commonwealth and is it then up to each State to score off the Commonwealth, as for instance Victoria would be doing if no quotas were fixed for factories and if it then devised a scheme which would take the price from 75c to 80c per lb butterfat? 
Did the Acting Prime Minister attend a meeting on 17 January this year where information was given by  Senator Withers  that he had made contact with  Mr Pearson  concerning the name change of a Federal electorate? 
I take up the point raised by the Leader - 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 
The fact is that for an issue of privilege to arise the matter concerned must relate to the conduct of a member's duties as a member; it must either seek to influence him or it must, on the other hand, attempt to prevent him from raising issues or voting as he chooses. It is a very precious privilege that we all possess so that we may be not concerned about fear or favour. Therefore the question of privilege has to be guarded very strenuously by the Presiding Officer. I believe that on this occasion there is no issue of privilege arising. 
I have been directed by the Leader of the Opposition to a paragraph headed 'Conspiracy to Deceive either House or Committees of either House' at page 141 of Erskine May's  Parliamentary Practice.  The Leader of the Opposition read the final sentence only but I will read the paragraph. It states: 
It has already been seen that the giving of false evidence, prevarication or suppression of the truth by witnesses while under examination before either House or before committees of either House is punished as a contempt; and that persons who present false, forged or fabricated documents to either House or to committees of either House are guilty of a breach of privilege. Conspiracy to deceive either House or any committees of either House will also be treated as a breach of privilege. 
In relation to the reliance that the Leader of the Opposition puts on that paragraph- and it would only be upon that paragraph that he could rely, for I am not satisfied that there is any breach of privilege in terms of interfering with the exercise of a member's duties in the House- it does not apply in this case. That is designed to deal with persons who are not members of the Parliament and, specifically, to deal with matters of evidence that are put before committees or the House. 
I should point out to the Leader of the Opposition that if there is a complaint raised by any member of the House as to the conduct of a member within the House, it is open to the honourable member to take the courses of action available to him under the Standing Orders. Earlier today the Leader of the Opposition attempted such a course of action. In fact, the Leader of the House, using the forms of the House, prevented discussion of the matter. Really I think it is obvious that the honourable gentleman has raised the question of privilege in order to ventilate what he wished to say but was unable to say on the previous motion. I have been patient in listening to him but I now rule that there is no prima facie case of breach of privilege. That means that the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition can be disposed of now, either by being put to the vote of the House, or being adjourned, or some other method being adopted. I call the Leader of the House to move for the motion to be put or for the matter to be adjourned, or whatever other course he chooses. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Hayden's)  be agreed to. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Resources. I refer the Minister to the Government's approval of iron ore contracts at reduced export prices and tonnages. With the fortunes of the Australian iron ore industry languishing under quantity and price reductions in contract tonnages, I ask the Minister: Why has not the Government stood its ground in the face of pressure from the Japanese steel mills to hold the line on prices, given that the Australian Government had already accepted the need for reduced export tonnages? Do not these new contracts amount to an abrogation of a clear commitment by the Minister, upon his return from Japan some months ago, that iron ore export prices would not be reduced? 
-The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  lacks integrity. He squirms and resorts to smears and irrelevancies in order to defend himself. What a pathetic and tragic defence it was. He spoke of 
Iraqi breakfasts, the 1975 Budget and Budget rallies. He was down in the gutter with deceptions and lies about the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  He said nothing to defend himself against the serious charge laid against him that he was the root cause of a massive Government deception, a conspiracy to deceive the Parliament of the nation and a royal commission established by the Parliament to inquire into allegations about electoral changes in Queensland. 
This matter goes right to the core of the Government. One of its senior Ministers would not now be present in this House had the name of his electorate been changed. There would have been a National Country Party attack upon him which would have been successful. The Government moved corporately to defend him.  Senator Withers  was called in to do the dirty work. What was a Western Australian senator, even if he was in charge administratively of the Australian Electoral Office, doing by meddling in the change of name of a Queensland electorate? Did he know about all the domestic politics of Queensland and the wranglings between the National Country Party and the Liberal Party? Of course he did not. He was given the mail by Ministers opposite, with the Prime Minister's concurrence, to put his hand into the redistribution processes and to tell the Distribution Commission that they wanted the name changed. That is the central issue involved in this debate. 
There was a conscious attempt by the Government, with the Prime Minister's knowledge, to pervert a redistribution for clear political purposes. The Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  knew about it. The Prime Minister knew about it. There was a cover-up which was succeeding until the Prime Minister clumsily dismissed the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  as the  Deputy  Government Whip. Understandably, the honourable member for Fadden took umbrage at that. The Government had tried to take his seat from him some months before and was now pushing him from the position he had achieved in the Parliament. Understandably he exposed the Government, and its contrived cover-up, its conspiracy of silence and its plan to mislead Parliament came unstuck. The Government then tried to bury the issue in a royal commission with limited terms of reference. That is the issue here. 
As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition pointed out earlier, the terms of reference were established when Parliament was not in session. They were established when they realised that the issue would not go away. They thought, 'At least we can have a limited inquiry where real exposure will not happen, where the real subterfuge of the senior Minister, in the person of  Senator Withers,  will not be exposed as having had Government concurrence in involvement in this shady electoral practice'. 
So we see the terms of reference establishedlimited, of course, to an investigation of the role of the Minister for Finance,  Mr Eric  Robinson, in the question of the naming of the electorate of Gold Coast. But what happened?  Senator Withers,  in the course of his ministerial responsibilities, was asked to appear before the Commission. Not being a terribly bright witness, he put his foot right in it and started to expose himself. Upon questions being asked in Parliament it was clear that there was an involvement improperly by him in the processes of the electoral redistribution. It was only at that time that the pressure came on to extend the terms of reference, to inquire into the matter of the involvement of  Senator Withers. 
The Government, of course, in trying to slide out of the issue, wrote to the Royal Commissioner suggesting that he could extend the terms of reference so that he could inquire into any other person, but the Royal Commissioner promptly wrote back and said that he could probe no other matter which was not set out. The issue is not 1 7 January- although we on this side of the chamber believe, and have proven that the Prime Minister knew of the issue then- not October last year when the conspiracy started, when the initial telephone call was made to the Commissioners, but that on 2 1 April the Prime Minister was apprised by letter, in writing, by  Senator Withers  through the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  that in fact he had been involved improperly in the procedure. The Prime Minister knew of it, the Attorney-General knew of it, yet the terms of reference cast three days later, on 24 April, did not of course in any way allude to the involvement of  Senator Withers,  and did not extend the charter of the Royal Commission to inquire into any involvement of  Senator Withers. 
So the Government, rather than jettison  Senator Withers  at its own hand, tried then to extend the terms of reference by having  Mr Justice  McGregor do their dirty work for it. Quick as a flash the Royal Commissioner,  Mr Justice  McGregor, replied that he would have no part of it, that he would not inquire into any matter which was not set out. Of course, the Royal Commissioner knew that the terms of reference were inadequate; that he could not embark upon an inquisition, but he also realised where the principal intervention came from. Of course, it came from  Senator Withers,  with the Government's concurrence. So what do we find then- a discussion in the Government parties. Mayhem broke out and the Prime Minister decided that he would expose and jettison  Senator Withers  to save his own skin. So we see the terms of reference extended on 30 May to permit findings on persons other than  Mr Eric  Robinson. The Prime Minister knew,  Senator Durack  knew, and the Government knew that with any competence whatsoever, the Royal Commission was bound to expose  Senator Withers,  and that then the Prime Minister in his usual fashion would knife and jettison him to save himself. That is precisely what has happened. The terms of reference were extended on 30 May. The Commission started its investigation of this matter and in the report which was finally produced and handed to the Prime Minister,  Senator Withers  was impugned as acting, in the judgment of the Royal Commission, improperly. 
When  Senator Withers,  at the Sydney Cabinet meetings, raised this matter, what was the response from the Prime Minister? We have the documented facts, as written by  Mr Toohey  from the  Australian Financial Review,  from  Senator Withers'  background briefing, which said that  Mr Fraser  initially replied that he would deny this and that when  Senator Withers  said that this was tantamount to indicating perjury from  Mr Eric  Robinson before the Royal Commission,  Mr Fraser  said he would say he had no memory of this event. Of course, that is what has happened. Everything that  Senator Withers  predicted has come true. The Prime Minister's only defence has been that he knew nothing of it. But yesterday, when he was pinned down by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition around the April date and asked, in the clearest possible terms, why he approved terms of reference which would not permit any findings- and the  Deputy  Leader emphasised the word 'findings'- about the conduct of  Senator Withers,  the Prime Minister said- and listen to this for a glib reply: 
So the terms of the Royal Commission were never widened, and never needed to be widened in relation to the eliciting of facts. 
He went on to say: 
Against that total background it was then believed that the terms of reference of the Royal Commission should be widened to enable the Royal Commission to bring in findings in relation to any person. . . . However, let me emphasise again that the terms of reference, as originally drawn were drawn in such a way that all the facts would be elicited. 
Drawn so as to elicit facts but not drawn so as to bring in findings. What a piece of pathetic semantics that is. What a miserable, hopeless defence. The Prime Minister smiles on the front bench. He knows that he has been exposed in front of his Ministers, his back bench, the Parliament of the nation and the public of Australia as a man who has deceived this Parliament, who has tried to deceive a Royal Commission, and who has clearly and plainly been found out. He comes in here talking about Iraqi breakfasts. That was two elections ago. He talks about the 1975 Budget and about Budget rallies. He would not defend himself because he knew he could not. He drew the terms of reference- his Attorney drew the terms of reference- knowing clearly that those terms of reference would not allow the Commision to bring in findings against  Senator Withers. 
So, of course, in the final analysis, Withers had to go. The man who perpetrated the refusal of Supply, the man who facilitated this appalling, this unprincipled climb to the Prime Ministership of Australia, the principal architect, the principal lieutenant of the Prime Minister in his rise to power in 1975, is knifed in the back so as to save the great man, to enable him to continue his destiny. So we find that  Senator Withers  is pushed out, yet the sheep on the back bench of the Government would not take the Prime Minister on because they well knew that there was nobody within their ranks to replace him. He hangs there on that simple propositon: That he is crook but there is no one else to replace him, so he will survive the experience. They will come in today and vote against the motion. 
There were attacks upon Prime Minister Whitlam and he acted with integrity. Our Ministers went. Our Government was put up for grabs, in terms of political disintegration, because Ministers were required to observe standards. Yet this Minister, who is the Prime Minister of Australia, lacks any integrity and will observe no standards whatsoever. How he can sit in a Parliament in the Westminster system when he is found out so clearly in a debate like this is, of course, beyond me. He has a hide as thick as an elephant. It is impossible to prick this man's conscience, to offend him or to elicit any sense of shame for him whatsoever. So all we have seen is just a cover up, a conspiracy to deceive the Parliament, a conspiracy to deceive the Royal Commission. 
What was the one card that brought the whole thing down? What opened up Australia's Watergate? It was the sacking, the clumsy, stupid sacking of Don Cameron as  Deputy  Government 
Whip. Why would he not sack him? I hear that Don Cameron said to the Prime Minister after the election: 'What about considering me for a position in the Ministry?' The reply from the Prime Minister was not the reply of a man with the gumption to say: 'I do not think you are up to it' or 'I do not think you are good enough'. The reply was: 'Eric Robinson told me you were not up to it'. Why would not Don Cameron, the honourable member for Fadden, take umbrage at the fact that, first, they tried to wipe him and his seat out; secondly he was refused a position in the Ministry; and, thirdly, of course, he was dismissed as  Deputy  Government Whip? On those three factors rests the exposure of the Prime Minister's complicity and duplicity in the most eleborate cover up, the most perfect conspiracy to deceive the Parliament that we have ever evidenced in this country. 
Now everthing hangs upon the denial, the denial of 17 January: How can he explain himself away there? As if 17 January mattered. We think it mattered on the basis that he knew about it, but even given that, 2 1 April is clear. There is a letter which was handed to the Attorney-General by  Senator Withers  giving information about his involvement in the affairs of the redistribution in Queensland. So at least on 21 April the Prime Minister knew but the terms of reference were drawn so as to include only an investigation of  Mr Eric  Robinson. But when the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition pinned down the Prime Minister yesterday the Prime Minister said that they were drawn to elicit facts but not findings. What a defence for a man who claims to be an honourable man! 
We have seen recently in this country perhaps the most appalling set of political circumstances that we have ever seen. We have seen a denial, a resort to hazy memory and now, of course, a shabby attack upon the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, a shabby attack upon the Leader of the Oppositon and false charges about incitement to riot and the rest at Budget rallies. No defence whatsoever has come from a man whom we on this side of the House believe is unfit to be Prime Minister, a man who lacks any integrity whatsoever and a man who should not enjoy the confidence of his own Party let alone the confidence of the House of Representatives of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
-This Bill is not the principal piece of Budget legislation that will establish the additional excise on crude oil to bring the price to import parity. The Excise Tariff Proposals No. 3 ( 1978) will be debated at a later stage. This Bill is to provide for the allowing of rebates on crude oil which is currently priced at import parity- that is, oil where the import parity price is paid to oil producers, not paid as an excise. 
The Opposition does not support the scheme of this legislation and will oppose both measures. It does so for good and cogent reasons. The principal objection of the Opposition is that the shift to immediate import parity for indigenous crude oil is a needless cost imposition on the Australian community. It is an inflationary measure which has been imposed as a revenue raising device to permit the Government to hold down its Budget deficit. The excise duty or levy of $ 10.26 a barrel will net the Government approximately $676m in a full year. It is the Government's ideological obsession with the Budget deficit which is the motivation for this initiative, not any commitment to a long-term energy policy or energy strategy. We on this side of the House do believe that a gradual increase in the price of 'old oil', that is, oil produced from existing fields, towards import parity is appropriate for proper resource allocation, conservation and exploration. But we also believe that even gradual increments in price towards import parity should be permitted only when a secondary taxing mechanism has been established to divide the windfall revenues between the producers and the community. 
As the Government's policy presently exists, dramatic windfalls are accruing to Australia's oil producers with liability only for company tax, with no guarantees that the additional funds will be spent on new oil search and development work. Heavy imposts on the public for higher priced petroleum products should not be borne simply to bloat dividends. Yet the Government's scheme will increase the revenues to oil producing companies in Australia as import parity is paid in full by 1981 as though it were in some way a cost of production, which, of course, it is not. Some previously discovered pools of oil of course, will be expensive to develop and will require a higher crude price. But this could be accommodated if crude oil prices were to increase and the final earnings to be subject to a secondary tax. 
What the Government has in mind is that the new levy or excise will be whittled away slowly in additional revenues to the oil producers as the price of their products gradually climb towards import parity. So, while the Government's take of $676m in 1978-79 is substantial now, this amount will diminish gradually as the revenues are transferred to the oil producers, especially Esso-BHP in Bass Strait. 
The new levy should not be applied. It will increase the cost of petrol by approximatley 16c a gallon and substantially increase the cost of living of most Australians, especially those in the country and on the land. The annual additional fuel costs for an average wheat or sugar farm will be about $1,000 and about $650 for an average wheat and sheep farm. 
If it were part of a planned energy strategy one could at least rationalise the Government's motivation. But it is not. It is simply a grab for revenue, so the Prime Minister (Malcolm Fraser) can hold down the Government's deficit and keep a fanatical grip on the money supply. One could at least understand the Government if it were to collect the revenue of the levy and then hand back to the producers sufficient funds to cover the development of sub-economic pools of oil. But this is not its intention. The purpose of this Bill is to rebate to the oil producing companies the full amount of the levy on oil which will fix prices at import parity. That is, the only levy that will then apply will be the $3 a barrel which is paid by the refiners on nonimport parity oil and the $3 a barrel levy paid by producers on import parity oil and passed on to the public. 
With this policy the Government gets the best of both worlds: A massive fillip to Government revenue in the short term and a continued transference of enormous volumes of money to the oil producers, particularly Esso-BHP, over a long term. While most segments of the community are hard hit by the Budget, the Government's corporate friends are dispensed largesse on a massive scale. The 1977-78 Budget provided a windfall revenue to producers as follows: 
Last year's Budget also provided that further increases in the percentage of Gippsland crude oil which would attract import parity less the $3 a barrel levy would be paid to the producers in 1979-80 and 1980-81. As a result Esso-BHP would gain approximately an additional $100m in 1980-81. This year's Budget indicates that these transfers or additional gains to producers will still continue at the expense of the receipts from the Government's new import parity levy. The absence of a secondary or resource tax on these windfalls is not in any way offset by the new levy as the Prime Minister suggested on the radio program  AM  last week. 
We on this side of the House are not resentful of the earnings of oil producing companies in Australia. Quite the contrary. We want to see them more successful. The less we pay for oil imports, the better it is for Australia particularly in relation to the balance of payments. Obviously companies cannot find new oil and develop reserves without funds- mainly a high proportion of retained earnings. These earnings should at least be generous from existing ventures. But that can be the case without resort to Government favour, free of any liability except company tax. 
It is obvious to the Opposition that companies will not search for oil in Australia with the prospect of SA2.33 a barrel for their produce when they can earn $A13 a barrel in other countries nearby. Obviously the price must rise, not only for this reason but for reasons of conservation. A finite and scarce resource should not be indiscriminately priced so as to encourage its profligate consumption. Energy resources should be realistically priced. But if the public is to carry the burden of a rational energy pricing policy, then the public also should reap some of the benefits of their sacrifice. This, however, is not the Government's intention and it is for the reasons that I have outlined that the Opposition feels compelled to oppose this rebate measure as it will oppose the levy measure when we debate the Excise Tariffproposals No. 3 ( 1 978 ). 
I refer the Minister for Trade and Resources to his answer to me during the last sitting period that he regarded the recent iron ore contract prices, to use his words, as being not fair and reasonable. I now ask the Minister: Why did he approve the Mount Newman contracts HG3 and HG9 knowing that the benchmark price of 22.5c per FE unit had been lowered by 2c to 20.5c and that this would wash off on the rest of the industry? Why did the Minister allow Amax Corporation, acting on behalf of the Mount Newman consortium, to recover its HG3 and HG9 losses by the premature upward revision of the HG1 contract knowing, as he must have known, that this action undermined his own Government's 22.5c FE guideline and fixed a lower price, which the Japanese steel mills then used to club the other Australian producers into submission? Is the Minister aware that in approving this round of contracts he will cost other producers about $ 13m in lost income this financial year and all the producers, including Mount Newman, approximately $30m next financial year, as well as undermining many national interest considerations? 
-The Opposition does not oppose the three Bills but seeks to amend the first Bill, namely, the Apple and Pear Stabilization Bill. The purpose of the three Bills is to extend the stabilisation scheme for export apples and pears for the 1978 season. The legislation authorises the payment of $2.20 a box on approximately 1.5 million boxes of apples and 80c a box on approximately one million boxes of pears exported at risk particularly to the European market. The Bills also provide supplementary assistance to be matched by the States. You will recall,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that after a very heated debate last year Parliament decided that $2 a box was to be made available on up to two million boxes of apples and 80c a box was to be paid on 1.4 million boxes of pears as stabilisation payment. Through a change in the market situation in the last season, unusually high prices were experienced and only $594,000 was actually appropriated on stabilisation during that period. That is because the average price of apples was running at about $5.90 a box. 
The general picture of the horticultural industries has been a sad one in recent times. One has to look at only the figures to understand by just how much production and exports have declined. In 1971 the figure was 150,000 tonnes; in 1977 it was 47,000 tonnes. Export prices this year are expected to be relatively high for the second successive year. Again, this is only a prediction, and prices probably will not exceed those of last year. The short term lift in prices, however, does not alter the long term trend within the industry and without government support, exports to the major markets are unlikely to be profitable. It is true that the current European crops do look small, but the effect on prices is not yet clear. For instance, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development estimates that in 1979-8 1 crops will be similar to the 1973-75 crops in terms of the large level of production, which of course at that stage had a depressing effect upon prices. That could well be the case this year. 
On a national basis, the production of apples has declined dramatically from 310,000 tonnes last year to an estimated 290,000 tonnes this season. Furthermore, there has been a decline of about 32 per cent in the number of fruit bearing trees compared with the 1968-69 peak. During that period, of course, the State which incurred the greatest problem was Tasmania. It experienced a decline of 49 per cent in the fruit-bearing trees from the 1968-69 peak season. So we see a very dramatic decay in the horticultural industries, particularly the apple and pear industry and particularly related to exports. Of course this all arises from the change in the basis of exports to the European Economic Community in 1971 when the door was closed firmly in the face of the present Leader of the National Country Party when he was a Minister involved in the EEC discussions. Because other markets developed in the United States and other parts of Europe we found that our traditional markets had begun to be eroded. 
What we are facing now is a problem of dealing with the families who are presently on their farms and who, on the basis of stabilisation levels, operate on a subsistence basis. As I said, last year prices were high and there was not the call upon the stabilisation fund that one imagined. This year the Government has reduced the number of boxes applicable to stabilisation payments as regards the export of apples and pears. In the case of apples, the number of boxes has been reduced from 2 million to 1.5 million. Honourable members will recall that last year the level of permissible stabilisation support was $2 per box on 2 million boxes. This Bill provides that this year it will be $2.20 on 1.5 million boxes. We on this side of the House believe that because of the unpredictability of the market situation and the aggregate return to producers from a lower permissible level of exports covered by the stabilisation scheme, a decline of 500,000 boxes will not be compensated by the slight increase in the price from $2 to $2.20 per box. We propose that $3 per box be paid. Therefore I move the following amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the House is of the opinion that the Bill should be withdrawn and re-drafted with a view to bringing forward a Bill which increases the rate of stabilization payments to (a) $3 per box of apples or (b) a number of cents equal to the product of 300 and 1,500,000 divided by a number equal to the number of reputed boxes of apples picked during the season concerned '. 
We believe that the carriage of the amendment by the House would indicate support for the hor.ticulturalists, particularly those in Tasmania, which is the State most reliant on exports. If, of course, prices happen to be such that a call has to be made on the stabilisation scheme, then this amendment would facilitate in aggregate terms a larger amount of money being paid to the producers. 
Last year the Opposition moved a similar amendment which was defeated by the Government parties. I might add that it was defeated because of support for the Government by all the members from Tasmania, except the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  who failed to vote in the division. The result was that the incomes of producers would have been seriously jeopardised if it were not for this unforeseen market pick-up which was not recognised at that time. So we on this side of the House believe that whilst some of the inclination in the market last year might appear to be carrying over into this current year, there is no guarantee that that will be the case. 
It needs to be remembered that this scheme has operated since 1971. It was designed to protect the horticultural industry against fluctuations in export income. Because of the great deal of manual labor involved and the cost of labor in Australia, the industry has had problems regarding viability. The difficulty then is to maintain the level of income for growers at above subsistence level. It has been a traditional National Country Party ploy to keep stabilisation payments at subsistence levels so that there is virtually an agrarian peasant group in some parts of the Commonwealth reliant upon these schemes, who are then sold the line that only the National Country Party will maintain them in their near poverty. We on this side of the House believe that if there is to be a stabilisation scheme, that scheme ought to be adequately funded so that payments to growers, if such payments need to be made, can be at other than subsistence level. 
This amendment places the onus squarely upon those members from Tasmania, remembering of course, that the Government currently holds all the seats in Tasmania, though I am sure that is a position which will be changed at the next general election, to act on this matter. We on this side will be interested to see whether the honourable member for Franklin votes on this occasion instead of being locked in the toiletinadvertently of course- as he was during the last division on this matter. We will also be interested to see the vote of the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr),  the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  and the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman),  both of whom are Ministers in this Government. Last year all of those members voted against the similar amendment put forward by the Opposition to increase the stabilisation payment to $3 per box. This year we want to see whether they believe that the interests of Tasmania will be advantaged by this amendment. Therefore we want to see whether they will support it or whether they will go their way and be covered by the Government Whip and the Liberal-National Country Party majority and vote with other honourable members on that side of the House to make sure that there will not be any splits in the Government's ranks. 
We on this side believe that some of the regions of the country which are reliant upon particular types of agricultural production and which have been disadvantaged in the past by sinusoidal fluctuations in markets can in some way be buttressed by having a stabilisation scheme which is at least generous in the event that such a scheme is called upon. So we look with great interest to see whether the honourable member for Denison who has just entered the chamber - 
We will be interested to see whether the honourable member will squib the issue again as he did last year and vote against the interests of Tasmanians or whether he will vote for the amendment. 
No, I have not. 
The honourable member for Franklin says that I have got the years mixed up. I refer to page 369, volume 104 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 1 7 March 1977. 
I was referring to the  Hansard  report of 17 March 1977 of the debate on the Apple and Pear Stabilization Amendment Bill. I refer to the vote on that particular Bill.  Hansard  shows quite clearly at the bottom of page 369 the names of those who voted ' aye ' and who voted against the amendment. Included in the first group were the honourable member for Denison- his name is shown quite clearly- the honourable member for Wilmot and, of course, the two Ministers, the honourable member for Bass and the honourable member for Braddon. The only name which is not listed under the ayes', the 'noes' or the pairs is that of the honourable member for Franklin who, as I said, was inadvertently locked in the toilet because he did not have the courage to vote on the issue. This year we are throwing down the gauntlet to him. I have not got the years mixed up. It was last year. Last year he failed to vote. He and the honourable member for Denison are both sneering cynically about the interests of their State. We have thrown the gauntlet down to them. We on this side of the House are saying that if we were the Government today we would be offering a level of $3 a box on apples. If honourable members on the Government side feel so smug about the vagaries of the international market place, if they feel that the stabilisation scheme will not be called upon and that the interests of the growers will not be jeopardised then that is fine. They can vote against the amendment. We on this side of the House believe that $2.20 on 1,500,000 cases as contingent liability on behalf of the stabilisation scheme is not enough and that it should be $3 a box of apples. The Government parties should support us in relation to this measure. 
I conclude on the point that I raised at the beginning of my speech. The Opposition does not oppose the spirit of the first piece of legislation but seeks to amend it. In fact, it does not oppose but supports the two ancillary pieces of legislation, namely, the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Amendment Bill and the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Collection Amendment Bill. We have sought to amend the central Bill, the Apple and Pear Stabilization Amendment Bill. I have just read the amendment to the House. We believe that the apple and pear growers of Australia, particularly the apple growers in Tasmania who can be violently affected by fluctuations in market and export prices, would be advantaged by the carriage of this amendment. We will be looking with great interest to the members of the Government parties from Tasmania to see whether they have the interest of their State at heart and whether this time they will support the Bill instead of running away from it on a party political basis to the disadvantage of their State. 
-The Opposition does not oppose these two pieces of legislation. The primary piece of legislation, the Wheat Tax Amendment Bill, is to amend the Wheat Tax Act 1957 to increase the rate of tax for research on wheat delivered to the Australian Wheat Board from 15c per tonne- a level which was fixed in about 1973- to 30c per tonne. Honourable members will be aware that moneys and funds collected under this tax Act have been spent on programs recommended by the Wheat Industry Research Council and approved by the Minister for Primary Industry. These programs touch such areas as disease control, weed control, breeding and protein content and the milling characteristics of various wheats, which of course are all important aspects to the Australian wheat industry in an attempt to hold onto traditional markets and to find new ones. 
In 1978-79 the estimated expenditure on research under this legislation, as mentioned in the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  is $3.32m. Of course, the urgency of the matter arises from the fact that with last year's reduced wheat crop reduced funds have been available for the research program. To lift the level of funding, the inclination of the Government has been to lift the rate from the 15c per tonne provided earlier to 30c per tonne. The second Bill, the Wheat Research Amendment Bill, is a consequential Bill to provide appropriation by way of separate Acts rather than by way of Appropriation Bill No. 1 ), which is the major piece of budgetary legislation. They are basically machinery matters. We support both pieces of legislation. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
-I rise in this debate more out of sorrow than in anger to see that another young man on the Government side is involved in the defence of the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch). 
He was heard in silence and I suggest that honourable members opposite do me the same favour. First the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  was today dragged into the debate and now it is the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon).  Two issues are involved. The first issue is simply this: The former Treasurer's personal affairs are in the market place of politics. They are there by virtue of the dismissal by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of the Minister as Treasurer during the election campaign and the unsatisfactory public explanation of his affairs. There has been a so-called investigation by a firm of accountants which is close to the former Treasurer and by a Queen's Counsel who is close to the former Treasurer. There was a report which the former Treasurer is not prepared to make public so an assessment as to the bona fides of the report has to be made. The simple fact is this: If the former Treasurer is not guilty of any misdemeanour, the best way that he can demonstrate it is to table the documents. 
I will withdraw the reflection or imputation. May I say this? It would be in the best interests of the former Treasurer to table those documents and to let the public judge on the basis of the Prime Minister's acquittal of the Minister. There are two issues involved here. There is the Stumpy Gully issue and there is the Golden Gate issue in Queensland. What was raised today by the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  and on a previous occasion by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  was the fact that a home unit in Surfers Paradise was financed on an equity participation of 2.5 per cent- I emphasise that, of 2.5 per cent- regardless of any of the interest repayments, of moratorium on interest payments or the rest. There was a 2.5 per cent equity involvement by the former Treasurer. If there happened to be a downturn in the market and if QBE Insurance Ltd was the mortgagee in possession it was very likely that losses might impact on the loan. That is the issue- not the interest rate but the equity involved. 
In the second project I believe that the former Treasurer, the Minister for Industry and Commerce, apparently took out a mortgage of $16,000 over his Mount Eliza property. Well, so be it. But the questions concern the terms of interest on the first property; when did he sell it; and what was the capital gain on the basis of 2.5 per cent equity? Honourable members in this place will know that there is not a financial institution in this country which will finance any property development on 2.5 per cent equity. This deal involves a $2,300 deposit on capital value of $92,000. That is the simple issue. 
I can say this. It is a shame to see the honourable member for McMillan, a member of this chamber whom I respect, and the present Treasurer feeling that it is their bounden duty on behalf of the Government parties to defend the Minister for Industry and Commerce who today refused to enter the debate after the House agreed to a motion to suspend the Standing Orders to discuss a matter affecting him personally. There are now other people coming into the debate on the adjournment to defend them. 
That is not a point of order. 
-I will conclude on this point. The Minister for Industry and Commerce can clear himself of any allegations of alleged impropriety. He can do that. He can make public the statements of Irish, Young and Outhwaite and Mallesons. In fact it was he who on 16 December said 'I believe there is a need to review the procedures of disclosures by Ministers of their pecuniary interests '. He has not done that and we on this side of the House want to clear the issue the same as honourable members opposite do. Let him table the documents and let the public be the judge. 
-The Opposition raises this matter of public importance because the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  for three years now has been recreant in his duty as the protector of the national interest in this country. Unlike his predecessor,  Sir John  McEwen, who tried to do something about stopping the selling off of the farm, the present Leader of the National Country Party has been prepared to give it away at bargain basement prices. The Labor Government's three years of effort to do something tangible about mineral prices and terms of trade have fallen away to such an extent that the Government's policy is now back where it was prior to 1972. The last round of iron ore price contract negotiations proved that the Minister is incompetent and that he is prepared to act like Pontius Pilate and to wash his hands of the whole affair. The Minister admitted to me just two weeks ago at Question Time that he approved prices which, to use his own words, were not fair and reasonable. In other words, he approved contracts for iron ore at prices which were below ruling world levels. That was the case in point. The  Australian Financial Review,  the leading financial paper in the country, called his reply to me an amazing confession of political failure. So, the question is: Why did he approve the contracts? Why did he not make a stand on the manner in which these contracts had been negotiated, and why did he not have any confidence in Australia 's strength as a major trader in iron ore- in fact, as the largest exporter of iron ore in the world? 
What we have seen over recent times is two companies, which are not Australian companies, behave in such a way as to restrict the capacity of other Australian iron ore mines, in particular, to negotiate fair and proper prices for themselvesfirst in the case of the Cleveland Cliffs Company which, of course, is a part of the Robe River iron ore operation at Pannawonica in Western Australia, and then the Mount Newman consortium, through its marketing partner AMAX Corporation, which holds a 25 per cent interest in Mount Newman, with CSR which holds a 30 per cent interest, BHP which holds a 30 per cent interest and two other companies, which hold a 1 5 per cent interest. 
What we have witnessed, and what the Minister was clear about, was that in accepting or negotiating prices on behalf of the Mount Newman consortium the AMAX Corporation had pulled the rug from under the Australian iron ore industry and, of course, lowered the bench-mark prices for iron ore in the two years between now and 1980- remembering, as we need to remember, that AMAX is a 25 per cent foreign participant in an Australian operating company which has 60 per cent Australian equity. Yet what we have seen is the Minister's concurrence in that company's lowering the bench-mark for iron ore prices negotiated for Australia. 
On 3 1 March this year, the Government gave to the Mount Newman consortium a guideline of 22.2c per FE unit for iron ore fine, and 25.8c per FE unit lump ore. As honourable members know, in each off year contracts, which are not long-term fixed-price contracts, are negotiated when half the contract tonnage comes up. In this negotiation Nippon Steel offered 20.5c per FE unit. On 19 May AMAX came back to Canberra and asked for a reduced guideline to permit it to accept a price of 21.6c per FE unit. Let us remember that the Government had given it a guideline of 22.2c. The Government, quite rightly, refused and on 9 June told AMAX that 20.5c was not a fair and reasonable price. 
What had happened in the intervening period? It had been very apparent to the Mount Newman consortium that the best it would be able to do commercially would be 21.75c. It knew that on last year's figures, which had averaged 22.5c, it would suffer a substantial loss. Remember that on its contracts a 2c change is worth about $10m. So it put together privately with Nippon Steel an agreement, whereby it would increase a contract- which was not normally up for renewal- by roughly 3c, and take down the bench-mark on the other contracts by 2c. It developed a 3-package concept which was peculiar to Mount Newman, and about midJune came back to the Government and sought its agreement. The Minister was in the position in which he had a range of contracts put under his nose by the Mount Newman consortium, at 20.5c per FE unit for the lot, knowing that if he approved the agreement it would lower for the next two years the bench-mark for the Australian iron ore industry. However, he agreed to the arrangement, knowing full well that it would wash off on all the other companies, in Western Australia and elsewhere. Of" course, the Japanese were elated. They had never believed that Australia would be so silly as to accept 20.5c from a high of 22.5c, and also upset the upward progression of prices that for so many years had been the pattern of iron ore negotiations. Not only were we not going to increase the price; in fact, we had moved backwards. The industry had been confident that it could get at least 21.7 or 22c. Instead, it was down to 20.5c. AMAX knew that it would lose about 0.8c per FE unit without bringing the HG1 contract forward, yet to maintain its cash flow for this year it was prepared to jeopardise the interests of the other companies and jeopardise its own interests next year when the HG 1 contract would come up for renegotiation anyway. So, next year, instead of starting off with a bench mark of 22.5c negotiations will begin at 20.5c, and it will not move from that point if the present Minister is still Minister and has his way. 
The Minister should have protected the national interest and told AMAX that there was to be no three-contract package, that it was to stand up there and fight for the guideline, which was 22.5c. 'Don't come back without it. ' Instead, we see that they came back with 20.5, and when Hamersley and other companies went to Japan, the Japanese said, 'The going rate for Australia is 20.5c; take it or leave it; we will let your contracts go to Brazil.' So they took it and brought it back for approval. That was the crucial point at which the Minister should have said: 'I will not approve these contracts; go back and get the guideline figure.' Of course, he did not have the strength to tell them to do that. They were not able to do it because he had agreed to the contract. Then he admitted to me that the contracts were not fair and reasonable. It is too late after the horse has bolted. 
Then we saw, last week on the front page of the  Australian Financial Review,  the heading: Iron Ore exporters told to get together; Anthony's ultimatum'. Well, it is all strong stuff, but it is about six months too late. But even if that were to be the case I doubt very much now whether it would be possible to get the Australian private iron ore industry together. There is now a clear case for direct Government involvement in the whole negotiation. Let us consider the coal situation. Who ran out on the south coast coal producers? Clutha! Who ran out on the Queensland coal producers? Utah! Who ran out on the iron ore producers? AMAX! Cleveland Cliffs- indeed, all of the Australian resource industry- has been taken to the cleaners by a handful of foreign companies because the Minister will not protect the national interest and will never exert himself in the way in which he ought. 
I note from the Laurie Oakes report of today that the Minister was rebuffed in the Chinese negotiations when he found, much to his surprise, that the prices which had been negotiated by the Japanese had also become the benchmark for negotiations with China. Not only has that price washed off upon the rest of the Australian iron ore contracts, but on the Chinese contracts also. The Minister tried to intervene to improve the contracts, but found that he could not. Of course he could not, because the Chinese were not going to pay for equivalent grades of iron ore any more than the Japanese were prepared to pay. So the whole thing has been a failure. 
We are now in the position in which Australia will not this year get as much for iron ore as will the Brazilians, if we take into account the freight differential. That is a tacit, dreadful, chronic admission of failure on behalf of the Australian Government. This has all to be seen in the context of falling tonnage orders from Japan. In April of this year we had a similar debate on this matter. At that point the Minister said that he had done his best to protect tonnages but that the Japanese could not eat the stuff and we would have to accept less. The industry accepted the fact that we had to take less but there should have been no capitulation on prices. It was bad enough having to take less tonnage, but there should have been no capitulation on prices. Instead, what we have seen has been capitulation on prices as well. 
The Minister says that if we do not take the iron ore prices the Japanese will take their business to Brazil. That is nonsense to anyone in the industry or to anyone who knows anything about it. The Japanese steel industry has become efficient by world standards simply because it is the best blender of iron ores in the world and has gathered grades of iron ore which it has been able to blend in order to produce steel competitively. It cannot blend Brazilian iron ore with any iron ore other than Australian; it needs our ore to blend successfully. We, of course, supply 50 per cent of Japan's raw material iron ore requirements. If that is not a position of strength, I do not know what is. Japan could not continue to produce in the absence of Australia's iron ore, and if we said that we were prepared to place an embargo on exports until Japan came to the party on prices, it would have no recourse other than to come to us. Japan could not pick up anywhere else in the world the spot tonnages that it requires. There is a lot of excess iron ore capacity around the world but not enough for the spot sales needed to replace in any way the tonnages which ordinarily leave Australia for Japan. The whole ploy is to say that, if we do not succumb to the policy of Nippon Steel, everybody will go to Brazil. I think I have demolished that argument. 
This year the Japanese will take about 60 million tonnes of Australian iron ore out of a capacity of about 104 million tonnes. By next year, when the Hamersley concentrate is in and the expansion of Robe River is complete, there will be about 20 million tonnes of excess capacity in the Pilbara. Yet in this climate the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Western Australian Premier are still talking about new iron ore mines. Can anybody in his right mind imagine Japan negotiating to develop Goldsworthy area C in the present climate of about 20 million tonnes of excess capacity when it has to establish another rail lineapparently some arrangement has been worked out with Mount Newman to duplicate the rail Une- and build infrastructure at 1978 and 1979 prices to gain access to iron ore at prices which would have to be 50 per cent more than current prices? The Japanese are not about to make themselves a whipping post by moving into contracts which specify prices very much higher than present levels. So all this talk that we have to go quiet to get new contracts and new projects off the ground is so much nonsense. New projects will start, as we on the Opposition side of the House have always said, when the world steel industry picks up, when capacity starts to reach its maximum and when the excess iron ore capacity around the world is taken up. Then and only then will the Japanese award contracts for new projects. They will not do so before then, no matter what kind of arm twisting comes from Charlie Court or the Minister for Trade and Resources, or from anyone else for that matter. 
Let me quote some of the statements which the Minister for Trade and Resources made when he happened to be in the Opposition. In an address to the Australia Japan Society in Brisbane on 15 June 1975 he said: 
The success in increasing iron ore prices in 1973 now threatens to develop into a policy of squeezing the Japanese for all they are worth. As regards coal, Australia has become a world pacesetter in coal pricing. If the latest proposals for coal pricing prevail, then the price  of coal  will have increased by far more than the price of oil as a result of the OPEC embargo. 
In other words, he was saying that the success of the Labor Government's pricing policies was such that prices were going through the roof. The Minister is now laughing, but that is his own admission. That is what he said in his speech. He need not pooh-pooh it now. Let me quote some other gems from him. Again in 1976 as Minister he said: 
And certainly we could not, and will not, stand aside and allow Australian producers to be forced into selling their products at less than fair and reasonable market prices. This can happen when individual producers are dealing with groups or cartels . . . 
He went on to say that we would never stand by and see Australian prices drop below world parity prices. So much for his words. The Minister is not believed any more. He lacks credibility with all our trading partners. He is not taken seriously in Tokyo or anywhere else. He goes backwards and forwards between Australia and Japan pleading on his knees with the Japanese to get some kind of fair treatment, while the Japanese laugh their way to the bank. At the same time all the producers I have mentioned do their best to advantage themselves to the detriment of the Australian iron ore industry. As far as we in the Opposition are concerned, it is not good enough. The Minister has shamefully run out on the Australian national interest. He has not protected it. He understands that the companies will cut each others throats to try to get contracts. He realises that the Japanese are playing in the position where they are in a buyer's market and will play havoc with us; yet he does not have the strength to stand up to our own producers and make them at least observe some kind of uniform pricing arrangements or put up a united front in the face of what is obviously a cartel operating in Japan. 
-The Opposition does not oppose either of these two Bills. The purpose of the first Bill- the Dairying Industry Research and Promotion Levy Amendment Bill- is to close a possible loophole by which the dairying industry could avoid paying the levy provided for under the Act. Legal doubts had been raised about two aspects of the Act. Apparently they are these: Firstly, the imposition of the Commonwealth levy on whole milk and butterfat which is produced in Australia and supplied by the producer to a co-operative dairy factory for processing by the co-operative on behalf of the producer; and, secondly, the obligation of the co-operative dairy factories to make deductions equal to the levy from amounts payable to producers in respect to whole milk and butterfat supplied by a producer to a co-operative dairy factory for processing by the co-operative on behalf of the producer and to pay such amounts to the Commonwealth. 
The second Bill- the Dairying Industry Research and Promotion Levy Collection Billfacilitates the collection of the levy. The Act which this Bill amends provides that a person who purchases whole milk or butterfat from the producer becomes liable to pay the levy on behalf of the producer if it has not already been paid. Apparently it has been discovered that payment of the levy could be avoided and this possibility has resulted in these two amending Bills. The need for amendments to the two Acts relates to circumstances where whole milk or butterfat is not actually purchased by a cooperative dairy factory but is delivered to the cooperative on behalf of the producer or processed by the co-operative for subsequent sale. This has raised the doubt as to whether the co-operative in their cirucmstances actually has to pay the levy. The Opposition believes that it is in the interests of the industy and of the country generally that such a loophole be closed. The moneys collected under the legislation are used to finance the research activities of the Dairying Research Committee and to finance the administration and promotion activities of the Australian Dairy Corporation. The Opposition supports these objectives, supports the basis of the amendments, and supports both pieces of legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I direct my question to the  Deputy  Prime Minister. Now that he has decided to follow Australian Labor Party policy and intervene in resource price negotiations, how will he handle the Premier of Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court, who has been consistently undermining this policy both in Australia and abroad? What proof has the  Deputy  Prime Minister that  Sir Charles  Court is- to use the Minister's words- an advocate of the Japanese steel industry? Does the  Deputy  Prime Minister believe, as  Sir Charles  Court claims, that Australia will become the laughing stock of the world if it protects the national interest through participation in resource negotiations? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I have been misrepresented. I said clearly last November, before the last election, that we would continue to support the underwriting of the operating deficit of the Mt Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd. I said there was a clear political reason in maintaining the mine. 
What was meant by the words 'political reason' was that there was a need to maintain the mine at  Mr Lyell  as the employment base for the Queenstown region and the north-west region of Tasmania. That is the clear intent of the sentence. The honourable member knows that. That is the way it reads. The honourable member chose to misrepresent me because he is worried about our intervention in Tasmania. 
-We on the Opposition side reject entirely the emotive terms of the matter raised for discussion by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)that  little partisan alarmist, the smearer who has often come into this Parliament to smear and to exaggerate issues and who has never contributed one original thought in the period that he has been a member of this Parliament. Apparently he thinks that by introducing a matter such as this he is impressing the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Even the Prime Minister has given up resorting to these old bogies and dragging up these red herrings as honourable members opposite have always done in the past. The honourable member for St George is typical of the mindless Liberal stereotypes who are currently being produced by the Liberal Party- the drones of Australian politics who sit on the back bench, like a pile of Easter Island statues, mute. They know nothing about the real issues of Australia. They are prepared to sit here and mindlessly support anything which the Cabinet brings in. 
The kind of debate we have heard from the honourable member for St George is typical of the low standard of debate in this Parliament on any of these issues. He talked about nationalisation as though there is no public enterprise in Australia. He even had the gall to say that one of the platform aims of the Australian Labor Party was to extend public ownership to banking. Yet in this very Parliament his own Government has extended public ownership to banking with the introduction of the Primary Industry Bank of Australia. How does he explain that away? Is that just rhetoric- the introduction of a piece of legislation in this Parliament to establish a new government-owned bank- or am I mistaken? Is it a private industry bank? Look at some of the things in the public enterprise area in which the Government itself has been involved in the past. I refer to the Australian National Line, the Australian National Railways, the Australian Industry Development Corporation and the Australian Wool Corporation. These are all things which have been - 
Oh, shut up for a while. These are all things which have been developed by Liberal-Country Party governments. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The House has enjoyed considerable latitude over the last hour or two. I ask honourable members now to observe the forms of the House. Interjections, of course, are strictly out of order. 
The legislation introduced in the last Parliament to establish the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation was proposed by the conservatives opposite. That legislation extends public enterprise into the area of meat and livestock sales in Australia. As well as that this Government supports other public enterprises such as Qantas Airways Ltd, TransAustralia Airlines, Medibank and the Commonwealth Bank to name but a few. Perhaps the honourable member for St George can tell us which of these public enterprises his Governments intends to close down. Which ones will the Government sell up? Will it be TAA, Qantas, the AIDC, the ANL or the ANR? 
We have the interjection Hear, hear' from a Government member. Let the employees of these organisations realise the real intentions of the people in the Government ranks. This is the kind of humbug which is being spoken by the honourable member for St George. The Liberal-Country Party Government has supported the extension of public ownership and enterprise in many areas of Australian commercial life. 
The honourable member for St George clutches at the discussion paper issued by the Labor Party just a couple of weeks ago and evidences this as a major change in our thinking. The point is that this discussion paper arose from a committee of inquiry established by the Labor Party after its last election defeat. In contradistinction to the Liberal and Country Parties when they were defeated in 1972, we are using our time in Opposition usefully to look at all of the issues which affect the Australian electorate and the social and economic fabric, to think about them and to talk about them. We on this side of politics are not frightened to discuss things. We are not frightened of the issues. We are not frightened to publish our thoughts. We are not like the Liberal Party, which conducts its business in secret, which never produces a discussion paper and which of course has never used its time in opposition to do anything other than just attack the Government in office mindlessly with all of the public shibboleths that the Liberals drag up. 
The honourable member for St George referred at length to the alternative approach which is dealt with in Discussion Paper No. 6. Let me just quote some of the things that he did not quote. The section headed 'An Alternative Approach' reads: 
It -  that is, government-  needs to create institutions that can encourage the level of private investment - 
I emphasise the words, 'encourage the level of private investment'-  it considers desirable while engaging in the production of a surplus through its own activities such that it can fulfil its re-distributive goals and provide a social wage without having to create everincreasing deficits ... It will also need to redirect resources as part of an overall restructuring plan to generate efficiency in those areas of manufacturing - 
Is that something from which the Liberals would resile? The paper continues: 
. which are considered to be potentially efficient in terms of utilising economies of scale and being competitive internationally, given the exchange rate consistent with rural and mineral exports. Being competitive internationally would entail new investment in more modern technology, which would increase productivity and allow growth of real incomes. 
Does this Government resile from that? Let us hear an answer from honourable members opposite. The article continues: 
With an expanding mineral sector inevitable, manufacturing associated with mineral refinement could provide necessary new opportunities. 
That appears immediately before the quote that the honourable member for St George selectively misused. Of course this whole issue points to the massive level of unemployment under which Australia is currently languishing 6.2 per cent in adjusted terms, but the real level, which would include those people who do not even bother to register for the unemployment benefit, is probably about 8 per cent. Honourable members opposite, especially the honourable member for St George, are completely unmindful of this problem and apparently are not prepared to think about any of the kinds of monetary or fiscal tools which could be available to any government, at present or in the future, to do something about it. 
This discussion paper was about some of the tools or proposals available to a government in the future, and let me just read some of the headings in this paper. They include: 'Structural Problems', 'The TariffAnd What To Do About It', 'InwardLooking And Its Consequences', An Alternative Approach' and 'Incomes Policy In The Transition'. When have we ever seen this kind of stuff produced by the Liberal Party? When have we on this side of the house ever seen a document produced by the Government' think tank? There has never been one. The only thing that has ever been done by the people who sit opposite has been to rely upon bureaucrats in the Treasury. John Stone is their think tank. Where John Stone goes they will go. If he gets run over by a bus somewhere in Canberra they are finished; their policy stops. That is the extent of their thinking as a party. They are incapable of any innovative thought. Yet they berate us for attempting to look at some of the problems. We on this side of the House have never at any time resiled from the opportunity of stating where we stand: We stand clearly for a mixed economy in Australia. We have said in the past that this approach of a mixed economy, we believe, is the best technique for wealth creation and distribution a successful undertaking of public and private capital operating in harmony. Let me quote what was said by my leader, who is the only authoritative source on party policy, as recently as his  Monday Conference  interview two weeks ago. I hope that honourable members opposite listen to this attentively. He said:   . . we're committed, if we become a Government, to administering the mixed economy, an economy which is preponderantly in the private sector. Three out of four jobs are in the private sector. Most jobs which trade unions cover are out there in the private sector. If we can't make the private sector function successfully then we're a failure in handling the economy. I 've always argued this . . . 
. We need profitable enterprises because profits are a source of new investment capital . . . 
These are the kinds of things which the honourable member for St George fails to allude to. He does not want an authoritative source such as the Leader of the Opposition. He wants selectively to quote from discussion papers. The Leader of the Opposition went on to say:   . . allowing companies to renew their capital equipment and to enlarge the scale of their operation. Business has got nothing to fear from the Labor Government, we are committed to making the economy work efficiently and well. We're also committed to redistribution too, we don't lose sight of our position as a reform party. 
There is a clear statement from the most authoritative source in the Party, the Leader of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party, of where my Party stands. That is not to say, of course, that the present private sector operates as efficiently as it ought to or operates in the national interest, because in some cases that is clearly not so. The motor industry is the clearest example of how market forces have distorted an industry and how it is not operating efficiently in the national interest. 
There is the member for Chrysler over there who is presiding over Chrysler's demise. Of course, many areas of Australian enterprise are not operating efficiently and market forces do not always correct the problem. At this very moment, because of the Government's policy of tariff and quota protection, we have resources being channelled into areas of Australian enterprise which are presently over protected and which, of course, ought to be looked at on the basis that resources should be channelled into areas which have the opportunity of efficiency and the opportunity of efficient long run production in the future. Instead of that, with the Government's policy of protecting some of the soft areas of industry, investment goes into those soft areas when it ought to be directed into other areas. That is the point the paper makes. To correct this problem there must be available to the national Government tools such as exchange controls, export controls, trade practices, the Foreign Investment Review Board, the banking controls and the Prices Justification Tribunal. These are all tools which people from both sides of pontics believe are necessary to regulate the Australian economy and to make it work in a much more socially desirable way that is more akin to the national interest. Ownership, nationalistation, socialisation or public enterprise- call it what we likecan be another tool, and that tool has been used often by honourable members opposite. As I mentioned earlier, the latest example is the establishment of the Primary Industry Bank because the Government had believed that the private banks of this country have not done, in the primary industry sector, the job that ought to be done and has taken the option of using the tool of public ownership to extend public ownership in the field of banking, in just the same way as all the tools I have just mentioned can be used by governments for particular policy aims. 
Nationalisation is not an objective of our Party. It is discussed as a tool for the more socially acceptable functioning of the Australian economy. There is a great body of opinion, I think, in most Labor parties around the world, including the Australian Labor Party, which believes that the old cries of nationalisation whereby one seeks to own companies for the profitability of owning them is a thing of the past, that it is not socially useful to channel one's money into owning other people 's shares or buying up their assets and that nationalisation is a clumsy and inappropriate instrument. In some cases, such as the ones I have mentioned, it can be useful but if one looks at any of the utterances of my leader, even going back to his Fabian pamphlet of 1968, one sees that he talks about the constitutional impediments to nationalisation and quotes Aneurin Bevan, who described as sterile purists the people who would nationalise everything in theory and nothing in practice. Those kinds of trite solutions have, I think, been largely discredited. Public ownership is looked at as a tool for redirecting investment and making the economy work in a more socially acceptable way. It is not a case of buying out companies. In terms of national expenditure any government's operations get down to the kinds of resources available and the kinds of priorities which a government can fix with very limited resources by channelling money basically where its priority is. For us that priority is putting money into social infrastructure rather than buying out lame duck companies to free investors' funds which, of course, are not returning them an economic rent. We are not going to be in the business of saving companies which are not operating profitably. Just this week in  The Economist  there was an article headed: 'Giscard steels himself for nationalisation', in which the conservative French  President  Giscard D 'Estaing is reported to have said:   . . between the private steel firms and their longsuffering creditors, mainly the state and state-owned banks  . . hinges ... the conversion of much of the steel industry's massive debt, say  $9  billion. 
Again that is nationalisation to save someone else's bacon. We are not going to be in that. We see most of our limited resources going into areas where, we believe, they ought to be, that is, areas where we can build up the social infrastructure of Australia. 
The honourable member for St George is desperate here today. After last weekend there is no safe Liberal seat in Sydney. Even the seat of Vaucluse has gone to preferences. On the State figures the seat of the honourable member for St George would have gone so far down the drain as far as the Liberal Party goes as to be almost impossible to recover. The same goes for the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  On State figures his seat is already in the hands of the Labor Party. Honourable members opposite are really packing death and will resort to any subterfuge whatsoever. This desperate little man from St George, the arrogant ant of Australian politics, is in here doing his best to drag shibboleths across our path. We reject his emotive extremism and the terms of his matter of public importance. 
I second the motion. The Opposition moved this motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders to give the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  a chance to make a statement this evening before his visit to the United States of America. We did so because there is rumour in the gallery of the Parliament and in the lobbies that a certain magazine will chronicle charges against the Minister for Primary Industry which, as a senior Minister in this Government, he will be obliged to answer. On 2 1 November last year on the  AM  program the Minister said: 
Our (the Government's) standards are very high indeed, and the standards that I have set, I believe, maintain exactly the same standards as anyone would wish a person in high public office to set. 
Let the Minister live by his words. We are giving him the opportunity to make a statement in the Parliament fully disclosing the issues which will be raised this week in the Press and which probably are under investigation by the New South Wales Attorney-General's Department. We on this side of the House were subjected to pressures and attacks by honourable members opposite on this very question of ministerial propriety and standards. We now expect those standards to be observed. There should be no rush trips on behalf of the beef industry to the United States to save the bacon of the Minister for Primary Industry. Rather there should be an explanation from him of his personal affairs. 
Go and climb back into your apple! 
We on this side of the House require the Minister to deal with the charges which have been laid against him and those which will be laid against him in the  Bulletin  this week. 
It has been brought to the notice of the Opposition that the Minister has no appointments arranged at this moment in the United States. There is no need for him to leave the Parliament this evening and depart for the United States tomorrow without making a complete statement to the Parliament on his personal affairs. If the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  were observing the proper standards, he would require the Minister to make such a statement and would prohibit him leaving the country tomorrow on this overseas junket which he has undertaken very conveniently to escape the public eye. Apparently it is a trick of the front bench of the Liberal-National Country Party Government - 
It is an apparent ploy of Ministers opposite to leave the country when there are matters of great public importance to be discussed. 
-The Minister should make a statement now while the opportunity is presented to him. The suspension of Standing Orders has been moved by the Opposition to facilitate a statement by him. He knows that matters relating to his personal affairs will be published this week. He knows that his personal affairs are being scrutinised by the New South Wales Attorney-General's Department. The Prime Minister should require him to make a statement, a full disclosure of his involvement in these affairs, to the Parliament so that the kind of standards the Minister says he is prepared to set are, in fact, set and maintained. 
I would like to deal specifically with two issues involving the Department of National Development. The first is the question of the recent public debate relating to export controls. The second is the question of the Government's increase in the price of crude oil through the mechanism of the excise on indigenous crude oil product in Australia. I shall deal firstly with the question of export controls. The Government's prerogative in the area has been a matter of controversy between the Opposition and the Government. A consensus is being reached between the Opposition and the Government that indeed there is a place for government intervention in what would otherwise be the free market place operations of the resource industry. Of recent times Australia has been clearly disadvantaged in those operations. The Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr 
Anthony) has indicated his unhappiness with those arrangements. We concur with his view but we say now, as we have said often in the past, that there should have been more direct involvement by the Government earlier rather than later. 
This all points up the fact that within the Department of National Development there seems to be an inadequacy in export control surveillance and the surveillance of commodities exported from Australia. The Department must lack information- I am not saying this on advice from the Department but just upon the statements of the Minister- in relation to marketing, particularly of iron ore and coal. I think that, for instance, production information from other mine sites around the world would need to be current for Australia to have any kind of information base in negotiations for resource pricing. We need information about what the Japanese steel mills and the steel mills of other customer countries are doing, what they are doing with their current iron ore and coal requirements, what blends they are currently engaged in using, and what impact that will have on exports from Australia and on shipping schedules for various types of product. 
Of recent times there has been discussion about the Brazilians fixing the market price for iron ore. I am quite certain that neither the Department nor the Minister knows the full impact of the Japanese negotiations with Brazil. We are not certain about whether any sweetheart deals have been arranged or about whether the price is really a fair market price. Those iron ore prices fix the ceiling for Australian prices which subsequently are adjusted with a freight differential. The other area where there seems to be a lack of information is shipping freights- spot freight rates and long term freight rates and how they affect prices on a differential basis between various countries, particularly those selling to Japan. 
The Estimates make no reference to any export control section. It was the Government's intention to run down the export control section from the days when it was developed under the Labor Government. The Minister made a statement about a year ago in similar terms and said that instead of each export delivery from Australia under contract arrangements being vetted, companies would be required only to submit annual returns on these negotiations. It seems to me that that is a very inadequate base. Australia ought to be looking for real intelligence on which to base and to supervise export commodities, particularly in the face of difficult marketing circumstances such as the existing buyer's market, especially for commodities affecting steel production. Therefore, I think that the Government could well look to an improvement in this kind of surveillance and this information base within its own bureaucracy. In the next Budget we hope to see the export control question being treated in such a way that funds are made available to employ an adequate number of staff to gather available information on which to advise the Government on the current state of any resource negotiation or any resource supply or demand pricing picture at any one time. I do not think that that information is currently available. It ought to be. It is quite foolish for a major trading nation like Australia not to have an information base which rivals that of the steel mills and the iron ore and coal companies which operate in this country. The system ought to be much better. 
The second matter I want to deal with is the increase in the price of Australian crude oil to refiners and the impact of that upon the price of petrol in Australia. Honourable members will recall that as a result of the 1977-78 Budget there was an additional cost of 2.5c per litre or 1 1.4c per gallon on petrol for the Australian consuming public. In the 1978-79 Budget the price of motor spirit has been increased by about 3.5c per litre or 16c a gallon over the price as at 30 June 1978, or 3c per litre or 13.6c a gallon over the expected 1978-79 price as a result of last year's Budget. The result of these decisions is a windfall pre-tax profit to oil producers in Australia as follows: The Gippsland Basin producers for 1977-78, $160m, and for 1978-79, $298m; the Barrow Island oil producers, $41m for 1977-78 and $41m this year; the Moonie oil producers, $2.5m for both years. The 1977-78 Budget also provided for further increases in the percentage of Gippsland crude oil which would attract import parity less the $3 a barrel levy for the producers in the 1979-80 and 1980-81 budgetary years. As a result the Esso-BHP consortium will gain additional revenue of about $100m in 1979- 80 and a further $100m in 1980-81. The present Budget foreshadowed that these additional gains to producers will still follow. However, because the consumer is already paying full import parity by way of a return to the producer plus a levy to the Government in 1979-80 and 1980- 81, these additional increases in windfall revenues will be at the expense of Government revenue. In other words, Government revenue from the crude oil production levy will fall in 1979-80 by $100m and in 1980-81 by $200m from the 1978-79 amount which was estimated in the Budget at $804m. 
Broadly, the Opposition supports the movement towards opportunity cost energy pricing as part of an overall energy policy. The weakness in the Government's policy under this budgetary arrangement is that the measure was put on basically as a revenue-raising measure and not as part of a total energy package. If it were part of a total energy policy as the Government argues, why was something not done about natural gas pricing? There was nothing about natural gas pricing. The Government refers only to the question of crude oil pricing. The Opposition feels that the previous approach of a gradual movement to import parity over time was the right approach rather than having something which steps the price up and has an inflationary impact by moving it to import parity for the whole of Australian production of crude oil in one year. 
The approach to gradualism had our support. What did not have our support was the fact that the windfall returns were going to producers instead of being shared equitably with the public, the community or the Government, as the case may be. Rather than having an energy policy of 100 per cent import parity for crude oU we have a revenue raising measure to try to hold the Government's Budget deficit down. Of course, even those revenues will be transferred to the producers as the 1977-78 budgetary impact starts to take effect. Gradually, as the producers climb towards import parity, the levy will just be whittled away and end up in their coffers instead of some of the funds accruing to the public purse. Some does accrue to the public purse by way of company tax, but we believe that this is not good enough. 
There is no evidence to suggest that the increase in price drops consumption immediately, but over time one believes that it ought to. We feel that this is an inadequate basis for such a massive increase in crude oil price. It is a hell of a slug to Australian motorists, to the people on the land and to other consumers of energy. It is not part of an energy package; it is just a revenue raising measure. The Government ought to start to produce a comprehensive energy policy for Australia. If it wants to look at opportunity cost pricing it should do so not only for crude oil but also for natural gas and other energy commodities in Australia. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Treasurer: Does the Government intend to introduce into Parliament a consolidated foreign investment statement? Will the statement detail, among other things, specific and rigorous criteria relating to the process of naturalisation, a policy announced by the Treasurer some time ago but then with only scant attention to the mechanics? If the statement is to be made, when will it be introduced into the House? 
I suppose all things change, given enough time. What we have seen today is an enormous about-face by the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony).  We have seen an enormous recant on his part on the kinds of policy attitudes which he took in contradistinction to the former Labor Minister for Minerals and Energy, the late Rex Connor. I do not know whether the Minister ought to enjoy the title of Rex Anthony or Doug Connor. Either one is appropriate. What a shame-faced turnabout by the Minister. Also, many ungracious references were made to the former Labor Government's policy which the Minister has now adopted, holus-bolus and claims as his own with a few semantics to make some distinctions. 
Of course, we on this side of the House are complimented enormously by the Government's shift in policy. It has adopted our policy. All I can say is that I agree with the general tenor of the statement but it is three years too late; we have already lost much business in terms of tonnages and prices of our raw materials. That may not have been the case if the Minister had faced up to his responsibilities at a much earlier time. What, of course, the Minister is worried aboutthis statement operates from today- is that he has been given notice already that the coal negotiations are proceeding and that Australia is doing very poorly. In those negotiations, our customers are banking on the fact that the Minister again will back down at the appropriate moment and not face up to his obligations. That is not the kind of criticism which the Minister can tolerate twice in a month. So, he has decided to remedy the situation and it is better late than never. Let me just tear to pieces the qualifications and excuses in his statement. I will start by referring to page 1 of his statement where he said: 
We do not send companies off to negotiations in a vacuum. 
He has just done that now for three years and did it particularly with iron ore in the last six months. He also said: 
We do not intend to return to a situation where companies ... are told bluntly that contracts are not satisfactory and that they should go back and do better. 
That is a semantic way of saying that approvals will be conditional. At page 6 of the statement he goes on to say: 
I will determine the parameters within which a company or companies will be authorised to negotiate. 
Even the former Minister for Minerals and Energy under the Labor Government was never so heavyhanded as to suggest that. The Minister goes on further to say that he will intervene only when absolutely necessary. If that is the case, why did he not intervene in the recent iron ore price negotiations just a couple of months ago? At page 2 of his statement he said: 
We do not wish to develop a greater degree of Government involvement . . . 
He could have fooled me,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because at page 6 he indicates that there is the greatest level of government participation ever envisaged by a Liberal-Country Party Government. That is another semantic reference to try to excuse the shift in policy which has taken place in the Government. Then he went on to say: . . . in recent weeks, we are facing a situation where buyers are imposing settlements on individual sellers which are less than could reasonably be expected in the market situation. 
That has been said by honourable members on this side of the House now for three years. He said: 
I emphasise that we are facing the results of a fundamentally changed market situation. There is a situation of depressed demand and of serious overcapacity . . . 
We have been saying that now for three years. This is the same Minister who, in the middle of the last election campaign when I raised these issues, put out a Press statement saying:  'Mr Anthony  details $14 billion worth of new projects'. That statement then listed the iron ore and coal projects that he said would start up in the next couple of years. If we already have a serious overcapacity situation, how then does he reconcile that view with his view in the election campaign that we ought to have more capacity built into the Australian iron ore and coal industry? 
Let us dwell on iron ore for a moment. When the Hamersley concentrator is finished next year and after the Newman expansion and the expansion of Cliffs Robe River, there will be 20 million tonnes excess capacity in the Pilbara. Japan this year will take about 60 million tonnes of iron ore in all. How are they going to dispose of 20 million tonnes from existing mines, plus the tonnage from all of the new projects the Minister talked about during the election campaign? He referred to Marandoo and Goldsworthy area C. He reeled them off, one after another. It was all good stuff in an election campaign but it was not to be believed later. Now he talks about a new, changed situation- one in which there is overcapacity in the minerals industry. It is nice to hear a frank admission but what about some frank admissions during an election campaign, instead of the kind of deceitful material which has emanated constantly from Government Ministers? In his statement the Minister went on to say:  . . . Australian companies face buyers who are coordinated or who have a high degree of consultation . . . 
Has he just discovered, after all his years as a Minister, that Japan particularly negotiates its buying arrangements and co-ordinates them? Has it taken that many years for the message to get through? He states further:  . . . as a result, can and do successfully play one seller off against another. 
That is an expression that I remember emanating from this side of the House not so many years ago and of late-one seller being played against another. This statement is a complete lift of Labor policy. I cannot understand why the Minister does not admit it and why he does not say: 'You are right and we have taken your policy. We agree with you '. He should do that instead of trying to pour a bucket all over the former Government's policy as he did at the start of his statement. He then went on to say: 
This is a most unsatisfactory situation and I have already expressed my concern . . . 
Concern does not take one very far in mineral negotiations. Everyone expresses concern but that does not go very far. He talked about unsatisfactory results and said: 
It is necessary to appreciate that a co-ordinated buying approach is becoming more and more the technique applied to purchases of Australian minerals. 
Again, that has been the case for years. He continued: 
However, we are concerned about buying techniques which are distorting these market forces, and are designed to depress the prices received for these basic raw materials. 
Well, of course, in a buyers market in the face of a cartel it was the Minister's job to organise the Australian resources industry which he has failed to do. The reason for the change in policy is that the companies in Australia have had a gutful of the present situation of going up there one after the other being picked off by the Nippon Steel Corporation, Sumitomo or any of the others. He went on to say: 
It is important to realise- 
I emphasise the word 'realise '-  that Australia has a pre-eminent place in the world trade in these commodities. We are the largest exporter of iron ore and alumina . . . 
I have been saying that to him now for two years. He should realise how strong, in fact, we are. We are the biggest exporters of iron ore in the world and that is why we do not have to eat crow every time we face the negotiating table. Nobody can duplicate the kind of tonnage capacity which comes from this country. While that is a weakness on one side because we are moving into a buyers market, it is a strength on the other side because we are in fact selling so much. Because we are selling so much our customers cannot shift their sources of supply rapidly and must continue to deal with us. In fact, I believe they are happy to deal with us, particularly Japan which is and which will remain our best and most reliable customer. The Minister went on- this is the real point.  Mr Deputy Speaker-  to say: 
Clearly it is essential that the Government has at all times the proper knowledge, oversight and control over the arrangements under which Australia's bulk commodities are exported. 
Just last week in this very chamber when we were dealing with the Estimates, I made these points. The Department of Trade and Resources under the Minister's tutelage has allowed all kinds of surveillance over mineral commodity movements and prices and the operation of mine sites around the world to run down. The result is that we do not have the necessary information. We are the largest traders in iron ore, alumina, coal, bauxite and all of the other minerals which the Minister nominated, yet we lack basic information about what is happening in the world. We do not know what kind of ore currently is being mined on the mine face in the Brazilian mines. We do not know what kind of grades are being mined currently. We do not know what the shipping schedules are. We do not know at this point in time what strengths we are likely to have or what kind of tonnages or materials are likely to be in demand for blending, particularly in Japan. The same applies to coal. All we do is stumble along in the dark. We are a country that has never grown up. We are in the big league in terms of commodities; yet our Government fails to face up to its obligations in getting a proper information base for the resources trade. 
Now the Minister talks, quite sensibly I think, about getting together with the companies to get information. The only point I make is that these are the things that the Labor Party was saying as early as 1973- five years ago. We need a proper control over the export division of the Department of Trade and Resources. We need a proper information base. We need to know what projects are starting up in coal, iron ore and bauxite. We need to know what the capacity projections are into the future. We need to know what the likely demand is, what the grades are, whether coal from other suppliers has certain types of characteristics and properties, whether the phosphorus content of our iron ore is too high in some respects and what are the likely blends that the steel mills will require within the next couple of months. These are all things about which we do not know anything and about which, of course, we should know something. But how can we know anything about them when the departments have been torn to pieces under the Government's cost cutting measures and staff ceilings have been imposed? All that happens is that our expertise just drops and when we get into tough negotiations we are cut to pieces. 
The Minister tries to save his skin by presenting this statement to eliminate a similar recurrence of the iron ore debacle of a couple of months ago in respect of the current coal negotiations. We will not cavil at that. But have a listen to the detail and the wording of the statement made by the Minister. He said: 
However, from today, exporters who wish to enter into negotiations under new or existing contracts will be required to obtain specific approval before making any offers - 
Not just acceptances but offers-  or responding to any offers or entering into any commitments.  .If that is not government participation in the full sense of the word, I do not know what is. The Minister continued: 
Consultation will take place between individual companies and officers of my Department. 
Then he went on to say:  . . . I will determine the parameters within which a company or companies will be authorised to negotiate. 
I personally support this. Our Party supports it. But the Government never supported it in the past. 
-That is nothing like it. The Government has just adopted our policy. I do not know whether the Minister thought he could come in here in the dead of the post-Question Time period and get away with this statement. The Minister then went on to say: 
Such parameters might include, as circumstances require it, pricing provisions, tonnage, duration or other usual provisions of commerical commodity contracts. 
If during the negotiations a company wishes to change the parameters it will be necessary to seek a variation to the approval. 
In other words: 'We give you the parameters; we tell you what you can change; and we give you the ultimate approval for offers and acceptances'. We on this side of the House agree with this; but it is just very new material from the Government. The Minister may smile. As I said earlier, this is an enormous compliment to us. We do not mind the Government pinching our policy; but what we would like is the credit for it on the way through. 
The Minister now says that he will not resort to a marketing authority. I do not believe in marketing authorities either. He says that there will be no legislation. I do not believe that legislation is required either. What is required is just a little bit of strength and foresight on the part of the Australian Minister for Trade and Resources and the resolve to make his Department carry out its proper obligations in terms of the mammoth resource movements which come from this country. The Minister in his statement went on to say: 
There will be continuing consultation with the industries involved. This will ensure that my Department is kept constantly in touch . . . 
He went on to say: . . . and to diminish the prospect of the Government continuing to be faced with the situation of having no choice other than to accept ... a settlement. 
That is fair enough. The final statement which I draw to the attention of the House is this: 
I repeat that negotiation of contracts will be between the Australian commercial interests and the foreign buyers and I would not expect to be discussing directly with individual buyers . . . 
That is fair enough. I have always said that I believe it is basically a commercial matter; that parameters ought to be fixed; that companies should not be varying offers to suit themselves, to the exclusion or detriment of other producers; and that  they ought to carry on in a fashion which is conducive to and in accordance and in parallel with the Australian national interest. That has not been happening. We on this side of the House believe that it should have been happening. We are now very glad to see that it will be happening. All I say advisedly to the Minister is that it is about time he gave his Department the chance to upgrade its information base and to get the kind of staff it requires in order to obtain proper information on export controls, to know what is happening with other exporters around the world and particularly at other mine sites, and to find out what our customers are doing, not take what they say at face value. I believe that all this can be conducive to maintaining the very valuable relationship that we have with Japan in particular in the resources trade. 
Finally, I am appalled at the ungracious references to the former Labor Government by the Minister in his speech. Nevertheless, we are complimented by the fact that the Government at last has seen the error of its ways and has decided just to lift a slab of the Labor Party's policy from its National Conference documents and adopt it as the policy of the Australian Government. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hodges)  adjourned. 
-What a mischievous intervention by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  this evening. He, amongst other Government supporters, realises that this matter is not a matter for the Federal Parliament. It is a matter for the New South Wales Government and indeed the New South Wales - 
The honourable member for Bradfield was heard in silence. Do me the same honour. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The House will come to order. The honourable member for Blaxland has the right to be heard without interruption. 
This matter has been before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Already today the Minister for Industrial Relations indicated the details of the recommendation by  Mr Justice  Ludeke that the men should begin work at 6.30 a.m. tomorrow and that he will be on site at the Broadmeadow terminal at 9.30 a.m. tomorrow with inspectors from the National Roads and Motorists Association to inspect car damage, which is the basis of the dispute. Tonight we heard this diatribe from the honourable member for Bradfield, not from a Minister and not from the Government but from the most pretentious, self-opinionated member of this Parliament. He came into the House- he is a man who is incapable of constructive thoughtand raised an issue knowing full well that he could upset the delicate balance of these negotiations. He was not worried about the future of New South Wales or about the people who could be seriously disadvantaged by fuel shortages but for miserable political purposes he tried to take a rise out of the New South Wales Government which beat his Party to death two weeks ago. How silly can one get? Today at Question Time the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  was embarrassed by an interjection from the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who suggested that the matter of public importance listed for today's business would upset the balance of these negotiations. The Minister did not take up the point because he is aware, as we are aware, that this kind of debate in the Federal Parliament, which is so far away from the dispute and can have no bearing upon it, is mischievous, damaging and could upset the whole basis of the agreement which we hope will lead to a resumption of work tomorrow. As I said earlier,  Mr Justice  Ludeke will be on site at 9.30 a.m. and he hopes there will be a return to work at 6.30 a.m. We on this side of the House believe that given some good will on both sides this dispute can be settled. 
But the real issue about this dispute is that in New South Wales there is a shortage of refining capacity. The whole system is running at its optimum all of the time. Any breakdown by way of strike, shipping problems or any other type of problems, including mechanical breakdown, leads inevitably to a decline in the production of refined motor spirit- petroleum- from New South Wales. We on this side of the House recognised this problem in 1974 when we established the Royal Commission on Petroleum. That Commission took two years to present its reports. The fifth report of that Royal Commission devoted itself exclusively to the problem of refining capacity. I will quote from that report. It is a voluminous document which deals with refining deficiencies throughout the States. At page 88 it lists and documents the present Federal Government's attitude to refining policy. The report refers to a letter from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to the principals of Total Australia Ltd in New South Wales'. He wrote: 
The Commonwealth Government has always been concerned to ensure, as far as possible, that Australian oil refineries had adequate capacity to meet the needs of the Australian people, that they were efficient in order to provide supplies of high quality at least cost and that they were operated in conformity with the national interest. 
He continued: 
The Government has now considered the Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum concerning an additional refinery in the Sydney area and has decided to take no action as we see the matter as primarily one for the State Government and the companies concerned. 
In other words, this Government washed its hands of the issue of refining capacity in New South Wales. Now honourable members opposite are bleating about the fact that the system is breaking down because they do not have the courage to come out and own up to their responsibilities and look at the question of a sensible national refining policy. As soon as the refining system breaks down with any kind of a stoppage, one of the blabbermouths on the Government side comes in here trying to disrupt what is already a delicate settlement which is in process in New South Wales. Part of the basis for this socalled matter of public importance is: 'The impact of the New South Wales fuel strike on economic recovery'. What economic recovery? That is the question one has to ask. I repeat: What economic recovery? We on this side of the House do not find any evidence of economic recovery. Perhaps the honourable member for Bradfield will talk to the directors of David Jones Ltd and tell them about economic recovery. This Government has just about run that company into the wrong side of the ledger. The rest of the retail industry in New South Wales, and throughout the Commonwealth for that matter, and all of the other areas of corporate enterprise - 
Just be quiet for a while, will you, sonny. 
Order! The honourable member for Kingston will remain silent. 
Plant is running at 75 per cent of capacity throughout the Commonwealth. Retail sales are down. The number of registered unemployed is in excess of 6 per cent and the real level of unemployment is probably about 8 per cent. On the inflation front, we have had two quarters when the inflation rate was jammed at about 8 per cent. I ask honourable members opposite: Where is the economic recovery? This is the economic recovery which is put in jeopardy by a strike over a couple of dozen cars which have been affected by sand blasting. It is a local strike and it should be settled locally. 
This is a matter of public importance which, I submit, does not deserve the consideration of the House. It is in the wrong Parliament. It is not a matter that ought to be considered here. I notice in the galleries on both sides of the House some of my friends from the medical profession. I did not hear the honourable member for Bradfield talking about the strike by honorary medical officers in New South Wales who have refused to work at outpatients clinics since 1975. Perhaps they are here to settle that strike. But we do not hear about a strike involving the $70,000 a year income group. We hear only about strikes involving the $10,000 to $12,000 a year income group. 
An elitist like the honourable member for Bradfield is doing his best to get the Prime Minister 's attention, perhaps hoping against hope that one day he might make the Ministry. But all of us know that he has no chance, particularly when he goes on with this kind of rot. He is just a reject from the Department of Foreign Affairs. The point is that the Premier of New South Wales, although under provocation from all the factors in this strike, has not made any extreme statements; neither has his colleague  Mr Hills,  the Minister for Industrial Relations in New South Wales; and, to his credit, neither has the Federal Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. It ill behoved the Minister to stand up in the chamber tonight in support of this proposal so that it could be debated, when he indicated clearly his embarrassment today when the matter was raised at Question Time. 
I conclude on this note: I am not going to give this debate any more time than I have given it already. It is not worthy of my time or attention. I simply say this: We do not want to see any more of this kind of scatter gun approach to industrial relations by people opposite. I am not in a position to express views on whether this strike is warranted or whether the issues involved are complex. I do not know the situation at Banksmeadow, but I do know this: If the Commonwealth Government does not get off its tail- this applies particularly to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  who is at the table- on this question of refining capacity, this country is going to find that it is fresh out of grass roots refining capacity. The system just will not always keep operating at optimum capacity. Unless we sit down and start planning the kinds of investments that are required to do something serious about refining capacity we will be in this predicament into the future. 
It is worth recalling from the fifth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum in relation to national refining policy that the cost of the eleventh grass roots refinery in Australia will equal the cumulative cost of the previous 10, and that is somewhere approaching a couple of thousand million dollars. In the current state of the petroleum industry no one company wants to go it alone on an investment of that magnitude. So there is a requirement on the Federal Government, which is always mouthing platitudes and slogans about energy policy, to do something about the most basic energy policy, and that is to ensure a decent refinery capacity to supply the refined product to the Australian public, when and where they need it, and one of the places they need it happens to be Sydney. Instead of that, to come in here and support this dodo from Bradfield who talked about an industrial dispute about which he knows nothing and on which he can shed no light ill behoves the Government and ill behoves the honourable members who stood in support of him. 
Has the Prime Minister seen remarks by the Western Australian Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, that the policy announcement on export controls by the Minister for Trade and Resources yesterday breached an undertaking between the Western Australian Government and the Federal Government? I ask the Prime Minister specifically: Did such an undertaking exist? If so, has the Commonwealth breached this undertaking? Is the Prime Minister in favour of the policy approach enunciated by the Minister for Trade and Resources yesterday? 
-The legislation before the House is designed to give force to the agreement entered into between the Commonwealth Government, the Tasmanian Government and the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd to extend assistance to the Mount Lyell mining venture to 30 June 1980. Such assistance is to be up to a maximum contingent liability of $3. 8m, on a dollar for dollar basis with the State of Tasmania. It is estimated in the legislation that, at most, the Commonwealth would be obliged under the arrangement to pay $1.6m over the 21-month period. As honourable members are aware, on 16 August an amendment to the original Bill was introduced to extend payments to the company for a period of three months from 1 July 1978, pending the outcome of the negotiations. There were Press reports about the negotiations, which were concluded successfully with the making of a tripartite arrangement between the Commonwealth, the Labor Government of Tasmania and the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd, the beneficial owner of which is the Consolidated Goldfields Group. 
We on this side of the House have supported the underwriting of the operating losses of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd. We did not do so on the basis that we believed that it was the right political thing to do, or because of a wish to grab votes or on any other issue. The fact was that, because of the industries which were dependent upon the operation of the Mount Lyell copper mine the company's operations at Queenstown supported the employment base of not only that region, but also the whole west coast region and, to a point, the north-west region also. In Queenstown, which has become the centre of the west coast area, there is a good deal of both private ownership and public infrastructure. Indeed, over the last few years there has been a renewal of public infrastructure and community colleges, hospitals and the like have been constructed there; so much so that the collapse of the copper mine would have meant a scaling down of the activities of the town and enormous losses being inflicted upon persons who had put their life's work into the town- all because of a fall in the price of copper, because of a down turn in the world economy. 
There was an Industries Assistance Commission inquiry into the matter and the IAC recommended that the mine close down. The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde),  who is trying to interject, is part of the antiTasmanian group in the Government parties, the so-called free marketeers. 
The honourable member for Perth also chides me about it. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  has not yet gone into his usual act but probably will later in the debate. The people of Tasmania ought to recognise that, no matter how much the honourable members for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck),  Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  might go through their pantomine antics here, the truth is that the present Government is an anti-Tasmanian government; it is against the interests of the people of Tasmania. 
The group that is cackling like cockies on the back bench of the Government is made up of the people who are the most vocal against assistance to Mount Lyell. They are the ones who are on the record in that regard. They are the ones who lead the anti-Tasmanian putsch within the Government parties. This Government has been, over a sustained period, probably the most anti-Tasmanian of any in recent Commonwealth history. One has only to compare its modest performance in regard to Tasmania with that of the former Labor Government in terms of the provision of finance for development of the basic infrastructure. 
The honourable member for Denison laughs like a yahoo on the back bench. Let me tell him that the Whitlam formula, as it is termed, for reimbursements to the State of Tasmania, is still the basis on which funding is being made to that State. It is a basis which the present Government has failed to commit itself to renew. All of the major works that have been under construction in Tasmania in recent times have been, of course, the product of the former Labor Government. Of course, in that vein, we are continuing to support what we belive is an important employment area, the Queenstown region. 
Honourable members opposite may take a cynical view of it; but by its chiding of the Federal Government the Tasmanian Labor Government has convinced it that it must honour its responsibilities with respect to Tasmania and prop up the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd until market trends became more readable. The truth is that while this has been happening the company has been so successful in effecting economies in the operation of the mine that operating costs have been reduced dramatically. 
Under the tripartite arrangement, over the period in question the company will spend $ 1.8m on new roads and mine vehicles. One would hope that during that period or, given the recent signs of improvement in world copper prices, perhaps even by the end of this year the venture will be covering its operating costs, without the need to resort at all to subsidy payments. If that proves to be the case it will mean that the IAC will have fallen flat, that its advice will have been shown to be wrong. The honourable member for Moore shakes his head. He believes in the IAC. That is good; let that go on the record. Let the anti-Tasmanian manifestations bear fruit in this chamber. Let the anti-Tasmanians chant their slogans by all means. I will make them a matter of public record. 
The point is simply that the IAC looked at this matter. I do not say that the IAC is a worthless institution. In fact, we created it; but we did so on the basis that, in addition to straight economic considerations, one must take into account the people and communities involved in the venture. The IAC took a pessimistic view of employment prospects in the light of the state of the world economy and the price of copper. I do not know what the price on the London Metals Exchange is today; but, when this matter last came up and I was interested in it, it was about £630 a tonne. It is now about £750 a tonne; it has climbed quite dramatically. If there is an appreciable increase in the copper price the mine might not show an operating deficit at all. If one were to look at all the people who were bullish about copper, such as the United States Exxon Corporation, or even our own Mount Isa Mines, one would find that a lot of the world's mines are in mothballs and supply is starting to be tailored to meet demand. This has been reflected in prices, which are beginning to move upwards. 
The honourable member for Kalgoorlie again chants his concern about this. 
The honourable member is not going the right way to be there, particularly in view of his performance in regard to the gold industry. 
I brought the honourable member out. It was the first time in 21/2 years that he had even mentioned the gold industry in the town in which he lives. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The House will come to order. The honourable member for Blaxland will address himself to the Chair. 
I was provoked. At least the Western Australian gold industry has taken some heart from the proposals we have put to it and is now talking bullishly about a return to employment in the Kalgoorlie area. That is no thanks to the honourable member for Kalgoorlie. Let that go on the record. One can tell from the interjections that there is a lot of opposition to this measure from the Government side, not from the Opposition side. I just make the point that the mothballing of a couple of copper mines around the world has had the effect of reducing the amount of copper available to a limited market and now the prices are starting to change. So as soon as the demand picks up the mines which are still operating will be the beneficiaries of any improvement. Hopefully, with the economies of scale which have been effected in Tasmania, the Mt Lyell Mining and Railway Co. venture in Queenstown can start to pay dividends. 
When one inspects this facility one finds that there is still a quite mammoth ore body to be mined in the future. This is not a traditional mine where the ore body is paid out. Admittedly the grades of copper are low, but they are quite extensive. The mine is being mined intelligently in my view by a very competent interested staff and a competent interested work force which knows that the mine has to pay its way. The result has been that much of the infrastructure which was invested into the mine before the collapse in the copper price is now being used to recover copper and to mine it economically. If Exxon or any of the other major operators in the world copper scene or even our own Mount Isa Mines is even faintly correct in the assessment of where copper prices are going this contingent liability of $3.8m on the Commonwealth would be redundant. The Commonwealth may not even have to spend the $ 1.6m which it expects to spend in the next 2 1 months. 
I do not like the fact that Consolidated Gold Fields Co. sold Renison Tin out of the Mount 
Lyell Mining and Railway company's portfolio of shares. What happened was that the tin price improved and Renison Tin made some spectacular earnings. Those earnings would have indeed subsidised the then current losses of the copper mining venture at Mount Lyell. We should remember of course that the Mount LyellMining and Railway Co. owned the shares in Renison Tin. The company says that there was no ulterior motive. The public can be the best judge of that. It separated Renison Tin from Mount Lyell so that it was in a profitable position and Mount Lyell was standing like a country outhouse with its losses showing and then it beat its path to the Government saying: 'It is about time you subsidised us'. I would have accepted its offer of $3m to walk out of the place. I would have taken it up on its offer. 
Yes, and have us operate the mine or have another interested company, or indeed the men themselves working as a cooperative operating it. Anything would be better than the present arrangement whereby we pay for the mine 's losses and it picks up the profitable venture at the end. In the end the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. under Consolidated Gold Fields was prepared to close the venture if the Tasmanian Government and the Commonwealth Government did not come to the party. That was the cold reality of the situation and that was the situation which we could not permit to occur. The Tasmanian Government saw that there was a problem with employment. There were about 2,000 jobs involved directly. Considering that the total unemployment level in Tasmania is 12,000, this 2,000 was a lot. It could not afford that to happen, so on a dollar for dollar basis now the Commonwealth is putting its money where its mouth is- I am referring to the Labor Government in Tasmania- and putting up $ 1.6m on $3. 8m in the event that this contingent liability needs to be met. I do not think it will have to be met. 
I think that the punt which the Tasmanian Labor Government has taken has been correct. Despite the anti-Tasmanian feeling on the Government side and the bleatings of the honourable member for Wilmot and the others on the Government back benches, the truth is that the Tasmanian Government had to convince the Commonwealth that it had to come to the party. This happens to be the seat of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom).  The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister were worried about the fact that the Minister might disappear from the political landscape. On the basis of political preservation they were compelled by the logic of the Tasmanian Government to subsidise the mine. We on this side of the chamber believed that the Mount Lyell Mining-- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The House will come to order. The honourable member for Denison will cease his persistent interjecting. 
The honourable member for Denison behaves always like a larrikin when Tasmanian matters are being discussed. 
-The Opposition supports the amendment. I indicated yesterday in the second reading debate that the Opposition supports the Tasmania Grant (The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Limited) Amendment (No. 2) Bill. I shall recount some of the arguments that I put at that time. We on this side believe that this is not just strictly an economic issue, rather that there are human considerations involved inasmuch as the Mount Lyell copper mining project is the employment base of the Queenstown region- the west coast area of Tasmania- and that many other industries in the area depend upon it. There is, as the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  has pointed out, a very high level of private ownership in the town. This mining community was established just after the turn of the century. The level of public infrastructure in the town is high. Indeed, much of it is very modern. When I was at Queenstown in late 1977 with Premier Lowe, I could feel the concern of the mayor of Queenstown, his councillors and the public about the future of the mine. 
It is a tribute to the Tasmanian Government, and indeed to the Federal Government, that funds to maintain this mining operation have been made available, but for Tasmania especially the provision of $3.8m from its Budget is a significant contribution bearing in mind the population of Tasmania, which is infinitesimal compared with that portion of the population of the Commonwealth which is on the mainland. Therefore, the $3. 8m which the Commonwealth proposes to contribute pales into insignificance when compared with the effort made by Tasmania's Labor Government. That $3. 8m is a contingent liability and one would hope that that kind of payout figure by both parties would not arise. As the Minister has pointed out, that would depend upon the copper price falling 10 per cent below its current price. We know that in the last six months the price of copper has gone up from about $630 a ton to $750 or even more. The chances are that by the end of this year there will not be much of an operating deficit at all; that even the $1.6m will be more than needs to be paid out over the 2 1 -month period. 
This is an interesting point that might well be considered, especially by the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde),  the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter),  the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns)  who were in this chamber last night chiding the Opposition and those interested in Tasmania on this issue, and the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean).  They are part of the free market place element within the Government which for some  time  has been mounting this anti-Tasmanian approach. The issue to consider is that we cannot always get back to the market place. While market place considerations are important, sometimes one has to look beyond just the pure economics and take a reasoned punt about the prospects of a venture like Mount Lyell. With the mothballing of significant copper mines around the world and the fact that the supply-demand picture is starting to improve for copper, as has been reflected in the copper price, it is reasonable to assume that, given the improvement in the efficiency of the mining operation in Queenstown and the extent of the ore bodies with mineable grades it could in fact become a viable project early in the future. That has happened. I think the work force at the mine has played its part in making the mining operation more efficient. 
Finally, of course, the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company itself or its beneficial owner, Consolidated Gold Fields, has come to the party and put up some money- I think $ 1.8m- for roads and vehicles for the mine. Before that it played the classic dog in the manger role. That is, it just bludged on the Commonwealth or the Tasmanian Government while ever the public purse was prepared to subsidise its inefficiency. Not only that, but it also dragged the Renison tin mine out of the company structure of Mount Lyell, the profits of which would have subsidised the whole of the copper mining operation. It left Mount Lyell sitting with its losses exposed and went to the Commonwealth and Tasmanian Governments to save it. The Governments had to save it because of the human considerations. The $1.8m which the company is putting in is the very least that it could do. Let me signal the punch this way: If the Labor Party is the Government of Australia after 1980 the company will not want to try any such ploy on me. It will be told and put in its place very smartly. 

 Mr Chairman, the loans for next year are indeed loans; they do not take the form of a grant. The loans are to be paid out of the profits of the mining operation as it improve. One would hope that the infrastructure funds which were spent in the more heady days of Mount Lyell can now be used to continue the mining operation. Hopefully the Tasmanian Government through its influence on the town and the people who work there will keep the whole operation on the rails. I am very glad to see that the free marketeers in the Government, the honourable members for Moore, Kalgoorlie and the others who spoke vehemently against this proposal last night have not gained the upper hand in the Government Parties. No matter how much the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  and the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  or others may protest that their parties- the Government Parties- are pro-Tasmania, the fact is that they cannot mount a debate in this Parliament without a significant division of opinion whether assistance ought to go to the State. That is not an assertion; it is for anybody to turn up in yesterday's  Hansard.  It is a matter of public record. 
I reiterate to those people in Tasmania who are interested that the high tradition of interest and funding which went to the State of Tasmania in the three years of Labor Government is being upheld currently by members on this side of the chamber. In government of course we would do the same. Suffice it to say that, in November of last year when I was at the Mount Lyell site, I said that we would maintain the operation of Mount Lyell if we were to be the government after the last election. I say again that we support the original Bill introduced by the Government and we support the amendment introduced by the Minister for Finance to give effect to the arrangements which have been entered into in the period between June and September of this year. I just hope that the trust which the Tasmanian and the Commonwealth Governments have placed in the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company's competence and expertise and in the interests of efficiency of its work force is well placed and that we do not find ourselves in the position if the copper price improves in the future of still having a mendicant operation on our hands. I hope that, in the light of an improvement in the copper price, we will have an efficient operation which can stand some of the chill winds of the market place. I hope that we will not be placed in the situation in the future where the mine looks to continued subsidisation. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
 Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
-We on this side of the House are glad that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has produced this document, which is a consolidated account of foreign investment policy, but it is not what in fact we on this side were looking for. Rather than just a consolidated statement or booklet we were looking for a statement of policy principles with much grander embellishment than we were given by the Treasurer when he announced the change to the naturalisation policy. We believe that it is in Australia's best interests to have between the two major Australian political parties a bipartisan policy on foreign investment. We think that it is conducive to promoting investment in Australia and to commercial enterprise generally. However, the latest changes put that bipartisanship at risk. This is not because of the naturalisation procedure or policy. We believe that there should be some mechanism whereby companies which wish to become majority-Australian companies can be provided with a mechanism to enable this to be done. 
What we are worried about are the loopholes which are now exposed to unscrupulous companies which may happen to be just 25 per cent Australian in terms of equity, which have no intention of becoming majority-Australian and which, for the purpose of picking up a project that they might not otherwise have been able to involve themselves in, will pay lip service to this policy, take up equity in the project and secure for themselves an avenue into perhaps another area of Australian commerce that might normally not have been available to them. A massive change in the equity structure of a large company is not necessary for that company to get into a very large project. With a ten to one gearing ratio of equity funds to debt money, $100m really talks about an investment of $ 1,000m. That is a large investment in Australian resources, yet it would not change substantially a company's equity structure. 
Therefore, my colleague the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  has suggested a registration procedure whereby companies will not qualify merely because they happen to have 25 per cent Australian equity but will formally register with the Government through a registration process that their whole spirit and intention are to move to the status of becoming a majority-Australian company. Rather than the flimsy notification procedures set out in the document, we should have one which would require a company to keep the registrar advised at all times of changes in equity structure or investment plans, so that the registrar could ensure that the naturalisation policy was being followed. Of course, if it is not and the company takes up unscrupulously another investment, a divestment procedure should operate. That should happen if there is a breakdown in the integrity of the stated intentions of the company as stated at an earlier time. These things have not been attended to in the statement of the Treasurer. 
Although we are pleased to see the Treasurer consolidate all of the Government's foreign investment policies, we believe that this matter has been left singularly unattended to, as has been the case with some of the other aspects to which the honourable member for Gellibrand referred, such as the data base on the collection of statistics on foreign investment. I emphasise that if the Government wishes to preserve and maintain the bipartisanship that largely exists on foreign investment policy in Australia it would be very foolish not to heed the suggestions that the Opposition is making. We state, simply, that if there is not a tougher, more rigorous, formal registration process, with a divestment procedure when companies contravene the spirit of the policy, that policy will be abused by companiessome of them very large- in order to get into avenues of commerce that would not normally be available to them. 
I believe that the principal companies that have been behind this move have been well intentioned. I believe that they want genuinely to become majority-Australian companies, but there are some who will take advantage of the policy. That opportunity should not be presented to them and we urge the Treasurer to re-think his position on the naturalisation of companies and the affording of Australian status to those companies which happen to have more than 25 per cent Australian ownership; to bring back a new statement which will close some of the loopholes which exist under the present policy. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Graham)  adjourned. 

 -Mr Speaker, what a trite argument - 
Motion ( by  Mr Howard)  put: 
That the question be now put 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. I remind him of his attacks when in Opposition upon the former Labor Government's proposed overseas borrowings, attacks on the basis that insufficient feasibility study was undertaken into projects mentioned. I ask the Prime Minister: Were feasibility studies carried out by the Commonwealth on the projects nominated by the States at the recent Loan Council meeting before the Commonwealth approved the borrowing for each specific project? 
-The Opposition opposes this ministerial statement and the other ministerial statement, both of which formed part of the cognate debate, but we will not divide the House on them because in each case the motion is: 'That the House take note of the papers'. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-What a cynical ploy by the Government to move an amendment of this nature to the Opposition's motion when the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  sits mute and will not come into the House to defend his Government or himself against attack by the Opposition. 
What a cowardly Government. The Opposition takes the most supreme sanction against a government by moving today a censure motion against the Prime Minister and the Government and the Prime Minister brings out his highest paid lackey, the talking head from Bennelong, to come and to defend the Government against serious charges while the Prime Minister is slinking in his office listening to the intercom, again not prepared to come back into the House to answer the Opposition's attack. I have been in this Parliament nine years and I have never seen a government which has been so cowardly in not coming to meet the attack from an Opposition on a censure motion. Never would Prime Minister Gorton, Prime Minister McMahon or Jack McEwen, the former Leader of the Country Party, brook this kind of parliamentary procedure- one or two speakers a side on a censure motion. They would have 12 speakers a side, there would be a real debate and they would face up to their responsibilities. They would come in to debate, to defend their case. 
Instead of that, this Prime Minister just sits in his office or comes in to hear his speakers and then walks out. I would like the Press of this country to start reporting for a change that the Prime Minister will not fight; that he will not enter parliamentary debates; that he will not speak; that he is afraid to face his colleague, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  in the Parliament, on television, on radio or anywhere else. We hear a lot from the Press about how the Leader of the Opposition mistakes Allan Walsh for Creighton Walsh or some other minor slip and that is reported but what is never reported is the cowardice of the Government parties. The Prime Minister is now walking from the chamber. 
Where is Doug Anthony, the Leader of the Country Party? Where is the Deputy Leader of the Country Party? Where is the Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party? Where are they? They are not game to come into this House. In recent times the deputy leaders of the Country Party and the Liberal Party have both been invited to speak inside and outside this Parliament and to the National Press Club. On both occasions they have declined because they are wounded Ministers; they are incompetent; they cannot speak; their public careers are so besmirched by their personal actions that they are unable  to stand on  a public platform. Therefore, half the front bench of the Government parties, the Deputy 
Leader of the Liberal Party and the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party cannot. They are broken, wounded men and they cannot defend their own Government. Instead they bring the Treasurer on and the member for St George  (Mr Neil).  I ask you! The member for St George- the arrogant ant of Australian politics. 
The Prime Minister talks about the performance of the Opposition, but where is he now? He is back in his office again like Keyhole Jack. This Government will not defend itself because it is a dishonourable Government. Look at the standards of this Government in the last six months. Take the Prime Minister's involvement in the Facom issue. In no other country under the Westminster system but Australia could a Prime Minister have survived with any credibility, with any face or self respect after having put his hand into the bowels of the tendering processes of the Commonwealth of Australia to the benefit of a particular company and got away with it. That is what happens in this country. The Prime Minister stood in this chamber barefaced and talked his way out of the issue when everyone in the Parliament, in the Press and in the public knew that he was guilty of this major misdemeanour of government. The former Treasurer, the right honourable member for Flinders whom I just mentioned, the most famous real estate agent in the country, was guilty of a major misdemeanour, was stood down by the Prime Minister and yet was investigated by his own Queen's Counsel - 
I will withdraw the word to get on with the debate and just say this - 
I withdraw and just say this: The right honourable member for Flinders was investigated by his own firm of accountants- a similar situation to that in the case of the right honourable member for New England, the Minister for Primary Industry- and then by a Q.C. personally known to him. The report of the Q.C. which was supposed to exonerate him was never made public. The Prime Minister and the Minister saw it but it was never made public. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  Everyone in Austraiian business knows that a submission cannot be put to the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party, the major coalition Party. Business never take a serious case to him any more. He is finished. We know it. Honourable members opposite know it. He is sitting there a dead man, unable to appear in debate. No company in Australia will go to the Minister with a serious submission because he could not get a piece of toilet paper through Cabinet, and honourable members opposite know it. He is completely impotent; he is wounded; he is besmirched; and he is incapable of commanding respect in his Party and Cabinet. That is the situation of the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party. That is also the situation into which the Minister for Primary Industry is fast emerging. I turn now to the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party, the man with a roomful of gold teeth. This is the man who is sitting on a probated will with a bundle of money involved in a company structure where debts are outstanding. We on this side of the House are still waiting to see just how this man clears himself and how the two  deputy  leaders of the parties in the coalition Government can survive as Ministers in this country with a so-called free and open Press and parliamentary scrutiny without defending the charges against them whenever they are put. Instead we have this pious, unctious lecture from the honourable member for Bennelong, the Treasurer, at the behest of the Prime Minister. 
The architect of the great Senate debacle of 1975,  Senator Withers,  was despatched by the Prime Minister to a worthy end, in the view of honourable members on this side, simply because he was like the Prime Minister; he was delving into the electoral redistribution processes, telephoning distribution commissioners and trying to effect a decision in favour of the Liberal Party. Other Ministers have had trouble. There was a scandal concerning the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  which went to a court hearing but because the Government did not raise an ex officio bill of indictment no indictment continued. The judged trailed his coat in the judgment but nothing was to come of it. This is the performance of the Fraser Government. Yet it has the hide to say that people can trust it. In the 1975 election campaign, I was in Mossman in Queensland. At the end of a hard day's campaigning, I was leaning on a bar of an hotel with an old farmer beside me. The Prime Minister appeared on television and I asked: 'What do you think of this fellow?' He looked hard at him and said: 'Son, if I had a dog with eyes as close together as that I would shoot it'. 
I will withdraw it,  Mr Speaker.  The Government ought to realise that the hardest job it has is marketing Malcolm Fraser as a believable commodity because he is now regarded as the most untrustworthy Prime Minister in the history of this Federation. It does not matter where one looks for examples. One can look across the board. I take the case of interest rates. It was said that interest rates would peak in February, would be falling from February. That is the promise. What is the fulfilment? Interest rates have been reduced by one half a per cent not by two per cent as promised. The permanent building societies in New South Wales are making a mockery of the Government because it is trying to go against the real forces of the market. Inflation is jammed at 8 per cent. Look at unemployment. It is now moving from 7 per cent to 8 per cent. The Government said that would also fall from February. Of course it will now reach a peak next year and not this year. The Minister for Labour and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  belatedly, in a fit of honesty had to tell us this. When the Prime Minister was questioned about this major promise and policy he said: 'Maybe I was over optimistic'. Is that a defence in the breaking of this election commitment? In every respect no matter where one looks this Government is unfair and unjust. 
The Treasurer talked about taxation incentives. There were plenty of tax incentives for Esso-BHP- $150m of additional unearned revenue came out of the windfall pricing agreement with no taxation mechanism to tax it back. The Government gave $800m to Australian business by way of the investment allowance, not for any capital widening but for capital deepening and labour displacement. The investment allowance displaced more labour in Australia in the last 12 months than any other single factor. And the Government is supposed to be worried about unemployment! The Government talked about our scheme involving $20m-odd for the various things that the Labor Government was interested in, or the urban and regional development policies involving about $ 150m! Where do they stand compared to the $800m investment allowance and the $ 1,000m which the Government will give to Esso-BHP consortium in the next three years? Utah Mining (Aust) Ltd, Australia's most successful and profitable company will receive a $33m remission of duty. 
How can the Government possibly talk about equity or fairness? It represents narrow corporate interests. That is what it has always claimed to represent and that is what it is doing now. The honourable member for Bennelong prides himself on being the man chosen to overfeed an overfed sector of Austraiian corporate life. Yet the little newspaper boys in the street are to have the backsides taxed off them. This Government places punitive tax rates and increased tax on long service leave and annual leave. There are examples wherever we look. The Treasurer talks about indexation. We have about quarter indexation. It was half and then it was half of half. It is very partial indexation. This is great change, great tax equity from the so-called competent Treasurer! 
All we hear from the Treasurer at Question Time and at other times is all the gobbledegook that he learns at the Treasury.  Sir Frederick  Wheeler and  Mr Stone  got him in a room in December of 1977 and said: 'Now you must understand these phrases: "Monetary aggregates, fiscal constraints" '. He had all the words pumped into him and he parrots them at Question Time. When he is asked a serious question, such as the one from the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Moore)  about a forward exchange market, he cannot answer it. He virtually said: We will have a look at it' and sat down. He could not answer the question by the Leader of the Opposition on the impact of the States' loans the other day. .There is no scrutiny of this by the Press. It is not stated that sensible questions are being asked by the Opposition and by Government members and that inane replies are coming from the Treasurer. That is all regarded as evasive. That is smart politics. To evade in the Parliament is smart; it is tough. There is competence on this side of the House and competence on the back benches, but the Treasurer is incompetent. He just mouths all these platitudes, words and economic jargon he has been taught at the Treasury. 
The point is that the Treasurer has been given the job. He has been plucked out of the Government back bench. He has been in the Parliament for four years and has been a Minister for three years. He is the Prime Minister's favourite. He has been given the job.  His  influence in the Government parties is very little while Malcolm Fraser is Prime Minister of this Government and the leader of the Liberal Party. When the Prime Minister goes, the Treasurer goes with him and the economic policy goes with them. Let us look at the second string, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  and little Tony Street. God help us. Where will this Government be? It is a Government without leadership. The one leader that the Government had with any kind of competence, Withers, is on the back bench in the Senate. 
Let us look at the inflation rate. This Government says that it is committed to reducing the rate of inflation. Inflation in this country is jammed at 8 per cent. No matter how the Government wants to gloss over the fact, the rate of inflation has been 8 per cent for two quarters. By the latter part of this year, when the indirect charges are pumped into the consumer price indices the inflation rate will be much higher. So, three years of toil, sweat, and labour for the Australian electorate have gone in getting down the inflation rate from probably 12 per cent to about 9 per cent- a 3 per cent drop and that is all. Yet, what has been the massive social cost? We talk in this Parliament about statistics. We are always talking about inflation, unemployment, the gross national product, growth rates and the rest, but where is the social measurement of the distress and disaster of the young unemployed? We will go into the 1980s with a generation of young people who have never known employment. What does the Government think is the social consequence of this? Does it want to see another Guyana situation on our hands in Australia of young people moving to drugs, to suicide and to police courts because of this Government's economic policy and the short sharp shock, as it started out, is now the long sharp shock. The only people to do well out of the Government's policy are Australian corporate enterprises, such as Esso Australia Ltd, the Broken Hill Pty Company Ltd and the Utah Development Company- and the people who benefit from the stock valuation adjustment scheme or the investment allowance. 
Surely the Government does not put itself up any more as a government that represents the Australian people and as a government which has honoured its promises. Surely it does not do that. When the Government is faced with a legitimate attack upon it in the form of a censure motion in the closing days of the year's Parliament, the motion is defended by the Treasurer, not the Prime Minister, not the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  not the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair),  or the Minister for Industry and Commerce, the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party but the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  the poor little honourable member for St George tries to do his best. He will fight valiantly to get marks and finally the Prime Minister may recognise his talent and give him a junior portfolio. The truth is that none of the senior people will come into Parliament and defend this motion because half of them are impotent and unable to stand further public exposure. 
For the Treasurer to move in with this kind of cynical amendment trying to turn the attack on the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  does him no credit at all because he is a young man and history will judge him over a long period of time. He has more years ahead of him if he does not lose his seat of Bennelong. He has come in and done this dirty work on behalf of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will be in his office on the phone but with his ear to the intercom, as he always is. The Treasurer is in here defending the Prime Minister with a trite proposition, a shameful and cynical proposition addressed at the Leader of the Opposition. Shame on him for moving it and shame on the government parties for supporting it. I have much pleasure in commending the proposition moved by the Opposition. The Government is a shameful, cynical and corrupt government; a scandal-ridden government that fails to defend itself, a Government that cannot coax its senior ministers to its Parliamentary defence. 
-The Opposition sought to break the debate into two- a debate on the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill and a debate on the Ranger statement and the statement on the Kakadu National Park agreement and memoranda. Apparently this was put to the Government by the Manager of Opposition Business and the Government declined. We therefore agreed to a cognate debate but we would have preferred the other course. I think it is discourteous of the Government not to have a separate debate on the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill, which is separate and distinct from the other two matters. The Opposition opposes the legislation, but it does not do so in any bloody-minded way. It does it for a number of clear reasons, the main one relating to what the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  said in his second reading speech. He said: 
The main purpose of the Bill is to enable the Act to be amended so that a mining authority to be issued under section 41 of the Act for mining at Ranger affords the persons on whom the authority has been conferred security of tenure . . . 
That is the main purpose of the legislation, and whilst one can understand that the Peko-EZ consortium is not prepared to make investments on the basis only of the memorandum of understanding or upon the whim and caprice of the incumbent Minister and that it seeks further security of tenure, it all points to the fact that the Atomic Energy Act is the wrong legislation for the Government to have used for the development of the Ranger project and the Northern Territory uranium province. That is obvious from the Minister's own statement, and I quote him again: 
The Ranger joint ventures have pointed out that section 41 of the Atomic Energy Act, as it presently stands, does not provide them with adequate security of tenure. 
The Minister went on to say: 
While the Act was designed to allow mining, detailed provisions to cover mining on a commercial basis were never included. 
Those are both admissions that the Atomic Energy Act is inappropriate for uranium mining, even given the Government's policy of moving ahead with uranium mining. Essentially, the Atomic Energy Act is a defence-oriented research Act and, because of that, it contains security measures which are not appropriate for a commercial mining operation. As well as that, the Fox Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry was quite specific in its recommendations to the Government not to use the Atomic Energy Act for the purposes of the civil mining project. So we are led inexorably to the conclusion that the Government should have undertaken its mining policy in the Northern Territory on the basis of a civil mining Act, whether it be the mining ordinances of the Northern Territory or a new piece of legislation enacted to give effect to the Government's policy. That has not been done, and we are trying now to amend the Atomic Energy Act- I think there have already been a couple of amendments to date and now this one has been brought forward- to make it a more suitable vehicle for the development of the Ranger project. Obviously, as the agreement goes on and discussions between the parties- the Government, Peko-EZ and the Northern Land Council- continue, there will be other reasons for amending the legislation. The Government will find that the Bill is again inadequate. The whole concept of using the Atomic Energy Act should have been scrapped and we should have left it alone as a research Act, an Act governing a research institution, and established a commercial mining Act so that at least the work force and the people involved with uranium mining were not subject to the kinds of penal provisions and draconian security measures incorporated in the present Atomic Energy Act 
The most important feature of this legislation in respect of uranium is the fact that the Government cannot terminate mining arrangements or mining activity at Ranger. At this point of time, this amendment applies only to Ranger, although some of its provisions are more general in application. We think that that is a serious omission by the Government and another breach of its commitment to stand by the recommendations of the Fox inquiry. The inquiry stated: 
A decision to mine and sell uranium should not be made unless the Commonwealth Government ensures that the Commonwealth can at any time, on the basis of considerations of the nature discussed in this Report, immediately terminate those activities, permanently, indefinitely or for a specified period. 
On 25 August 1977 the Minister said when making the statement on the Government's uranium policy: 
The Government will, therefore, always be in a position to move immediately to terminate uranium development, permanently, indefinitely or for a specified period as recommended by the Ranger Inquiry. 
This legislation is a clear abrogation of that commitment to Parliament because under this legislation the Minister cannot terminate mining activities at Ranger. Rather, he could, but it would require a further amendment to the Act, and that is in contradistinction to the Fox recommendation. Whilst the Minister may argue that the Government can stop export through the export controls, and I accept that point, even given the fact that the Government exercised its export control powers and prohibited exports, the company could still mine and stockpile uranium and the Government could do nothing about it. Control over termination procedures really rests with the company concerned. A termination can take place only at the application of the authority holder, which in this case would be the Ranger consortium. Of course, the consortium is not going to apply for termination of its business activities. Even if it did, there are provisions in the Bill which deal with that situation. If the Minister terminated the mining at Ranger because of some breach of the provisions of the legislation or the agreement, he would have to give notice to the company and the consortium could attend to the breach and have the termination lifted so that it could continue mining. In other words, the Minister cannot terminate mining activities at Ranger under this agreement as it presently stands. 
Without any reference. He just cannot do it. 
The point the honourable member is trying to make is that this is the normal thing under State rnining Acts, and that is so. Companies want security of tenure. They do not want to be there at the whim and caprice of a government Minister. But this is not a State rnining Act. This is not a normal commodity. This is not copper or bauxite or tin. This is uranium and it is special. It is a strategic material. Because it is a strategic material we have had a national inquiry about it and the national inquiry has recommended that the Minister should be able to terminate. I have already quoted the Minister when he said that he would terminate and that the provisions of the legislation would ensure that he could terminate. That is a clear abrogation of that commitment. In fact, the 
Government has given only cynical lip service to - 
The Minister interjects. Let me say this - 

 Mr Anthony- I was not interjecting; I was talking to an honourable member over here. 
It is much the same thing; the Minister was mumbling away. If I were in his place as the responsible Minister, it would not be beyond my wit or beyond the wit of my Government to find some way to terminate the mining of uranium if the decision were made to terminate it. Nevertheless, it is the Minister's responsibility to own up to his commitments. The legislation should contain a termination provision at the Minister's behest, but it does not. It is as simple as that. 
The Minister said that the legislation is only for Ranger, but sections 4 and S have general application. Whilst the Minister is not on record as saying that Pancontinental Mining Ltd, Queensland Mines Ltd or Noranda Australia Ltd will be subject to the Atomic Energy Act, nevertheless, if what the Minister euphemistically calls his 'sequence' takes place and another rnining venture is given the right to mine under the Atomic Energy Act, what could happen is that not only would Ranger come under the provisions of this Act, but also Queensland Mines, Noranda and others could come under its provisions. So, whilst the Atomic Energy Act now remains only applicable to Ranger, it could be the vehicle for the development of the Northern Territory uranium province- and a very inadequate and inappropriate vehicle it is. 
The Bill contains some very reaonable provisions in the areas in which it protects the rights of the Aboriginal land councils and reflects some of the provisions of the agreement with the Northern Land Council on Ranger. Reasonable, commendable indeed as that is, nevertheless, in the broad, the use of the Atomic Energy Act is inappropriate for this kind of mining operation. I really cannot see why the Government wants to persist with that Act. I am sure that the Minister will reply that it was in the memorandum of understanding concocted between Peko Mines Ltd, Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Ltd and the Labor Government. Indeed it was. But we have traversed long since then and now there is not the kind of stupid opposition which we had in this Parliament in those days, when the then Minister for Minerals and Energy made his statement in a committee room downstairs because the Parliament would not give him leave to make it in the chamber. That was the kind of atmosphere we had in those days. The use of the Atomic Energy Act was a fall-back position. We have since had a national commission of inquiry recommend against the use of that Act. 
I doubt that. 
If that was the case, you should have been shown the statement. I would not defend such an action. Of course you should have been shown the statement. Nevertheless, that was the kind of atmosphere which the Parliament was in and it is now quite trite for the Minister to say that, because Labor used the Atomic Energy Act, we have to continue with it. The Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquirythe Fox Inquiry- recommended against the use of that Act. I really do not know how any commercial company contemplating investments in uranuium mining can do so on the basis of the use of that Act because the Act will require constant amendment. This will not be the last time when we will have this sort of debate; it will go on and on and on. The amendments will keep coming in. The Minister ought to wake up to himself, get a decent piece of legislation and forget the Atomic Energy Act. But apparently he is not prone to doing that. 
The Opposition opposes this Bill because the Opposition is opposed to the Government's uranium mining policy. The Opposition is opposed to the use of the Atomic Energy Act to implement that policy, as was recommended by the Fox Commission. Whilst we support many of the provisions contained in the Bill in relation to the Aboriginal interest and, indeed, some of the other commercial interests, nevertheless, the Bill is inappropriate for the development of a new industry, an industry in a Commonwealth Territory, an industry for which an Act could have been passed by a government with a majority in both Houses of the Parliament. It ill behoves the Government to bring in this kind of legislation and to fly right in the face of the recommendations which were so clearly enunciated by the Fox Commission. 
Sitting suspended from 5.S9 to 8 p.m. 
-by leave-The notice of motion to which the Opposition Whip alluded was withdrawn because the Government would not facilitate a debate in the early hours of the evening. It would not allow a debate to take place until after the statements had been presented to the House, which would be around midnight. The Opposition withdrew the notice of motion with the view of moving it or of giving notice of it tomorrow. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The New South Wales Grant (Chrysotile Corporation) Bill 1978 is to grant assistance to the Government of New South Wales by way of a section 96 repayable grant for lending to the Chrysotile Corporation which is situated at Barraba near Tamworth in New South Wales, otherwise known as the Woodsreef asbestos mine. The problem with this mining operation has been that over a period the mine has become uneconomic because of changes, mainly in currency exchange rates. The mine was on the point of closure when it appealed to the Federal Government for assistance. The Federal Government disapproved of short term assistance to the mine. It was only after the New South Wales Labor Government indicated that it would spend up to $2m in underwriting the operating losses of the mine that the Federal Government came to the party with legislation which is before us tonight for a maximum of $ 1.4m, virtually on a dollar for dollar basis with the Government of New South Wales. 
The New South Wales Government which has spearheaded the attempt to resurrect the mine has done so mainly on the basis that this is the largest asbestos mine in Australia. Indeed it is really the only asbestos mine operating in Australia. There are 435 employees at the mine and about 700 people who are employed indirectly from the mine, which brings the employment base that is created by the mine's continuing operations to about 1,135 people, which is significant for any rural area of Australia. The export earnings of the mine roughly are about $22.5m which again is not inconsiderable. The mine is a relatively new operation. It began in 1972. Because of the currency exchange rate fluctuations in 1973 when there was a revaluation of the Australian dollar of 25 per cent against the United States dollar, the mine got into difficulties mainly because asbestos is priced in Canadian dollars. It was because of this fact that there was therefore a loss of revenue which forced the mine into receivership only a year after it began. 
The mine then came to an arrangement with the Commercial Bank of Australia, its banker, and continued in operation thereafter. It has only experienced difficulties again in recent times after the Canadian dollar was devalued, which led to a 15 per cent decrease in revenue for the mining operation. Again the change in the parity of the exchange rate between the Australian dollar- loans to the company are made in Australian dollars- and the Canadian dollar which it earns has of course produced this disparity. As well as that, the Woodsreef operation was forced to reduce its prices because of a price cutting war in the asbestos industry, mainly because of an over supply facing a limited demand situation. The price cutting was begun by the Rhodesians about 18 months ago. It has led to a further 6 per cent decrease in earnings. With the 1 5 per cent loss from the exchange rate differential and the 6 per cent loss from price cutting, there has been about a 2 1 per cent loss of revenue. Of course this has been almost more than the mine could bear. 
The matter was investigated by the Industries Assistance Commission with the view to granting short term assistance. The Commission recommended against short term assistance. The New South Wales Government, recognising that it was not just an economic problem but also a social problem- 1,100 or 1,200 people would be thrown out of employment in an area of New South Wales where there was no alternative employment base- saw fit to resurrect the case and appealed to the Commonwealth to join it in giving joint assistance. The. New South Wales Government, as well as offering $2m towards the cost of underwriting the mining operation, has sought to waive the mine's royalty commitments to the State of New South Wales and has forgone additional revenue from what would otherwise have been reasonably handsome royalty payments. The Wran Government of New South Wales has demonstrated its bona fides in trying to keep the mine open and encouraging the Federal Government to reverse its decision which originally was to accept the IAC report and reject short term assistance for the Woods Reef mine. 
The funds have been provided as repayable loans at commercial rates of interest. The loans will be repayable out of the earnings of the mine. One has to be reasonably optimistic to think that there will be earnings to enable the loans to be repaid. An assessment was carried out on the future of the mining operation and its earning potential. One of the factors which encouraged both governments to support short term assistance was the fact that the company had moved towards the recovery of tailings from its earlier mining operations which should increase its revenue by about IS per cent. The company also expects a 7Vi per cent price increase from January 1979. It is expected that the demand during 1980 will be increased. At this time of the year in the asbestos industry- this period is called the mating season- companies that mine asbestos sell their products for the ensuing year. Prices are fixed for the ensuing year. 
The New South Wales Government's consultant who was commissioned to study the prospects of the mine has indicated that he believes that the increased demand that is expected in 1980 and the likelihood of a 7 1/2 per cent price increase, coupled with a IS per cent increase in revenue coming from the tailings recovery equipment which the mine management has increased, plus the fact that the Commercial Bank of Australia has been prepared to accrue interests over the period gives the mine a chance to continue into the future and ultimately to operate profitably again and hence repay its loans from the Commonwealth and New South Wales governments. We on this side of the House believe that government moneys cannot just be handed out to bail out commercial operations. With a reasonable prospect of return and, given the fact that banks on any commercial basis cannot continue with their lending program, which of course would force the mine's closure, funds have been made available to meet the operating cost of the mine over that period. 
It is not insignificant that 1,100 to 1,200 persons in the Barraba area of New South Wales will be kept in employment. I think it is also important to recognise that in that area private ownership is worth about $2m. With a lot of the mining operations around Australia the townships are in fact company owned and there is no cost to any of the employees in the event that the mining operation closes, given the fact that they are normally provided with severance conditions and pay. Because they do not have mortgage commitments and the like they do not go away having incurred a loss. But in this case about $2m has been expended on private dwellings. There would be a very heavy burden placed on those 435 people who are directly employed at the mine and the other 700 people who are indirectly employed, which I think would be far too onerous. In the cause of good sense and compassion for an isolated community which is relying exclusively for its employment on the asbestos mine at Barraba, I think the New South Wales and Commonwealth governments have acted with prudence in trying to maintain the mining operation by underwriting its operating losses. 
One can only hope that the prognostication of the New South Wales mining consultant will, in fact, come to pass and that the mine will move towards a positive cash flow position in the foreseeable future. We on this side of the House have much pleasure in supporting the legislation. Confidence has been placed in the mine's management and its employees. Let me dwell on that point. I had the pleasure of meeting the employees and the management a month or so ago. I was very impressed with their co-operative corporate effort to try to save the mine and to make sure that there is complete harmony between the management and the employees. That factor will make a very great difference to the prospects of the mine moving towards a positive operating surplus in the future. The Opposition joins with the Government in supporting this legislation. It hopes that its faith is not misplaced and that the mine management and employees will do their best to take the mine back to a positive cash flow position, repay their obligations and continue to operate the mine on a positive basis in the future. 
-Yes, I second the motion. The whole defence of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has been one of a faithful son doing his best with a complex estate. That is the basic defence of the Government- one of a faithful son doing his best with a complex estate. This is false, this is a deception, and it is misleading Parliament. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said on 24 October 1978 that Ian Sinclair was the executor of his father's will and that he reported the matters of the will immediately to the Australian Taxation Office and the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission. That was untrue, and the Prime Minister knew it to be untrue, because in fact it was 18 months after the death of George Sinclair before the Minister reported on 22 September 1977. That happened because  Mr Creighton  Walsh blew the gaff on the Minister on the Willesee program on 15 August 1977. So much for openness, so much for honesty, so much for the fair play of the Minister. 
I do not rise on matters connected with the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission investigation, I rise on matters affecting the public purse of the Commonwealth and the revenue and the Taxation Office and to dwell on this question of misappropriations. Around that and the tax rebate which has come from it is the area where the Minister is culpable. The Minister used in an amended tax return in September 1977, in an amended report to the Corporate Affairs Commission of New South Wales, the heading 'Losses by Misappropriation by Persons Unnamed. That was signed by Ian Sinclair. They are not loans to shareholders, because loans to shareholders of any company would have documentation and a liability would be clearly established. They are not loans to shareholders. In the Minister's own words it is misappropriation and the document was signed by him. So there has been misappropriation. 
We are now told the Australian Taxation Office has paid on those misappropriations. The company has claimed the misappropriation as a deduction against income and the Commissioner of Taxation has accepted the misappropriation. So the Allan Walsh companies, of which the Minister is a major shareholder, has received a tax rebate of $115,000 on a claim of misappropriation. This issue has nothing to do with the New South Wales investigation; it has to do with the revenue of the Commonwealth. What is important is that the Minister for Primary Industry has operated the accounts for the companies concerned for some years now. He is the one who knows all about them. He has had the cheque books. He says that misappropriations occurred. In that case, who is the embezzler? The Minister must know the identity of the embezzler. If the companies have claimed misappropriations, if the Minister has signed the document of misappropriation, and if the Commissioner of Taxation has paid on those misappropriations, then the Minister must know who the embezzler is. Why has the Minister not sought action to claim the moneys back from the embezzler or to identify the embezzler? Is the Minister protecting a felon? Obviously he is. We want to know why he is doing that. 
I will withdraw that statement.  Mr Speaker,  and make this point: The Minister knows the identity of the embezzler. If funds have been misappropriated- the Minister manages the accounts of the companies- he knows who the embezzler is if, indeed, it is not himself. That is the issue before the House. The matter that the Opposition has raised is that the Prime Minister will not stand this Minister down, on the basis that no charge has been laid against him. That is not consistent with the action he took with other Ministers when he stood them down for lesser matters. He wants them either in the paddywagon or on bail before he will stand them down. That is the issue. They have to be either behind lock and key on charges or out on bail before the Prime Minister will stand them down. What is wrong with honourable members opposite? That is the issue. The Minister knows the identitity of the embezzler. We on this side of the House want to know why the Minister, as a director of the company concerned, has not sought to recover the moneys. If there has been a misappropriation, why did the Minister not seek to recover the funds? 
The new factor is that the Minister is now the sole beneficiary of the probated estate. The estate was probated on 2 November this year. The Minister is now the sole beneficiary of the net estate of $107,000. Of course, part of the estate has shareholdings in the Allan Walsh group of companies, which have been the beneficiaries of rebates from the Commissioner of Taxation on misappropriations claimed as losses. These misappropriations have been made by people or persons unamed or unknown. That is the issue. Through this estate the Minister is now the direct beneficiary of rebates from the Taxation Office to the Allan Walsh group of companies, of which he is a shareholder. The estate reflects that benefit. Despite all this, the Prime Minister still will not do anything about the Minister. The Prime Minister is still waiting until the investigation in New South Wales is completed. The Prime Minister is not looking at the taxation aspects at all. 
So we have the ludicrous situation of not knowing who the embezzler is. A Minister of the Crown has benefited by at least $107,000, which is the net benefit from his father's probated estate, in part from funds rebated by the Australian Taxation Office on a misappropriation that might have been committed by persons associated with the probated estate. That is the situation. How can any Minister of the Crown stay a Minister of the Crown with those kinds of questions hanging over his head? The thing is that we could have the crazy situation of the thief investigating his own crime. That is the situation, and yet the Prime Minister allows it to continue. He does not intend to stand down the Minister until the investigations have been completed. 
The honourable member for Phillip has been so used to representing thugs for so many years that it just comes naturally to him. 
And you will not get a withdrawal, either. 
The misappropriations for the two Allan Walsh companies total $374,000- that is not some piggy bank exercise- of which $265,000 is claimed as a loss to revenue. Some people ask: 'Why are not the other shareholders uptight about this?' The reason is that the other shareholders are the beneficiaries of the tax rebates. They cannot count on the Minister or the estate tipping money back into the company, but they can count on tax rebates coming back from the Taxation Commissioner. So, nobody is going to raise that little issue, except, of course, die person who should be in charge of the revenue, namely, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  That is the issue involved. Now $109,000 has been claimed in the return as a misappropriation but is not claimed as a loss to revenue. I want to know why that is the case and why that claim has not been made. 
Another interesting sidelight to this little issue is that the Minister has referred to five burglaries of the office of his solicitor. Those burglaries have occurred at various times. No mention was made of them as they occurred. All of a sudden we are told that there have been five burglaries. 
We on this side of the House have reasonable reason to suspect that when the crunch comes and certain documents have to be produced all of a sudden it will be revealed that they were taken in the five burglaries. Perhaps they will just disappear overnight. 
The issue here is that a Minister of the Crown has admitted that companies of which he is a director have had funds misappropriated. Those misappropriated funds have been claimed as a taxation loss. Yet we do not know what the view of the Taxation Commissioner is about the matter. If the Prime Minister were interested in the role played by one of his senior Ministers, he could get a report from the Taxation Commissioner on the evidence that the Commissioner has which identifies the person or persons who are unnamed in the misappropriation claim. What we would like to know is whether the Taxation Commissioner- perhaps the Treasurer can answer this question- has asked the New South Wales Police to investigate the frauds or the misappropriations. This is an unbelieveable situation. A Minister of the Crown claims from the Taxation Commissioner misappropriations in a taxation return, gets a rebate which he picks up through probate on the will of an estate. Yet he can still sit in the Parliament under the protection of the Prime Minister. The Minister has worked this very cagily in the last year. He has known about this matter since September 1977. He knew that it would be raised. He has backed in the Prime Minister at every turn of the wheel- in Cabinet, in the House and everywhere elsetrying to lock the Prime Minister on his side. Following the Prime Minister's dismissal of  Senator Withers  and the attacks upon the Prime Minister for his disloyalty to his colleagues, he cannot afford now to stand down the Minister for Primary Industry unless he absolutely has to do that. It gets back to this issue I mentioned earlier. 
This is not a second reading speech. Either it is a point of order or it is not. 
Sit him down,  Mr Speaker. 
Am I to have my time used up with a frivolous point of order upon which you must rule? 
Let the Prime Minister try to defend his Minister if he must He should stand him down and he will not stand him down. 
Oh, come on. Give him a go, for God's sake. 
If you will not take him on,  Mr Speaker,  I will take him on. I will not take any notice of your rulings,  Mr Speaker.  You will not protect my rights to speak. 

 - Mr Speaker, you are the custodian of the House. You have to protect my rights to speak in the chamber and not let my time be taken up by this stupid, ridiculous point of order. I will not be made to sit down by the Prime Minister. This man will not stand down his Minister. He is prepared to besmirch the Cabinet of Australia, the Government of Australia, and everybody else. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

You are just a rotten crook and you will not stand down crooks in the ministry. Stand your Ministers down, you bloody crook. 
You are the  Speaker  and therefore if you request an apology you will get it. But your tardiness cost me five minutes of my speech. 
I withdraw and I apologise. May I test the Prime Minister's sincerity - 
Question put- 
That the honourable member for Blaxland be granted an extension of time. 
I ask the  Deputy  Prime Minister whether some New South Wales coal producers have reached pricing agreements with the Japanese steel mills at levels below the parameters fixed by the Government's negotiating guidelines. Have the companies concerned notified the Government of these price agreements and sought approval of them? Will the Government grant export approval for these new contracts? If so, does this mean that the guideline policy of the  Deputy  Prime Minister has failed and that  Mr Tanabe  has routed him at their first confrontation? 
-In the last sitting day last year in the course of a censure debate there was an exchange between me and the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney).  The honourable member subsequently took exception to some of the remarks I passed about him. I regret any offence to the honourable member. I formally notify the House that I requested the Principal Parliamentary Reporter to withdraw both my remarks and those of the honourable member from  Hansard. 
-This is obviously the end of the charade, the end of the farce that has lasted a few weeks within the Government parties. Instead of seeing the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  speaking on this matter, whom did we see? We saw the Leader of the House, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  the Government's enforcer, the Frank Nitti of the National Country Party, the honourable member for New England. He is aided and abetted of course by the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch).  We on this side of the House since the last election have never seen the Government so much in disarray as this evening. The  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party has been strong arming the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  and the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  The right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  has been doing the same, running between the two. The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns)  has nearly turned purple up the back of the chamber. We have never seen so much pressure being applied to honourable members in this area. 
The Government brought the debate on. Who was the first  speaker  in this debate? It was not the honourable member for Franklin, the man who was going to introduce his own legislation. He is not in the debate. The Minister for Primary Industry has spoken. What has he ever had to do with social security which ever benefited anybody? He has more in common with Harry M. Miller than he has with pensioners in this country. 
The Minister is the man who presided over pensioners receiving 18 per cent of average weekly earnings. He is the Minister who brought in 50c and $1.50 increases under Prime Minister McMahon. 
I was here in those days to watch him. The Minister was the most heartless Minister for Social Services that this country ever had. The only successful revolt with any kind of humanitarianism in it that he ever led was the revolt on the pensioners' funeral benefit. And who led that? It was the Minister for Primary Industry. 
That is right, the body snatcher, the man with the room full of gold teeth. He led the debate on that matter. That was his only contribution to it. So, he should not stand up in this place and talk about pensioners. He was part of the sorry brigade before 1972 that kept pensioners in this country impoverished. 
What do we see tonight? Not a genuine debate. The Opposition moved this motion; the Government has facilitated it. It has not gagged it. A notice of motion was given on this matter. The Government brought on the debate because it was acutely embarrassed. We believe that the honourable member for Franklin has been under pressure all day by members of his party. I do not wonder why. The truth is that the Government parties have broken another major election promise. They slashed the living standards of those Australians who are least able to afford the impact of rising costs, the people in the lowest economic levels of the community. 
Another clear promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has been blatantly broken. He said that he would maintain the value of pensions. He did for about a year and then of course the Government parties moved away from the twice-yearly indexation of pensions. He is the Prime Minister who brought pensions back into politics. During the three years of Labor Government the principle of the relationship of fixation of pensions to average weekly earnings was clearly established. When Labor came to power in 1972, pensions represented 18 per cent of average weekly earnings. In the three years of Labor government they were fixed at 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. That was the objective of the Labor Government. It stuck to its promise and continued to index pensions twice yearly to represent 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. It took the Prime Minister to come to power to break that automatic adjustment, to bring pensions back into politics. Of course this was all in the interests of the mean Budget deficit, the obsession with the Budget deficit. Let us see how much pensioners are disadvantaged by the latest increases. The December quarter consumer price index increase of 2.3 per cent of course will not be passed on yet. The next pension increase will be at the end of November of this year. 
That is assuming that they get the lot. The 1.5 per cent decrease in the CPI because of the reduction in health costs was passed on to the rest of the community but was not passed on to pensioners. Last year's national wage increase of 4 per cent will not be passed on. The next national wage increase, which will be about  2Vi  per cent, will not be passed on. That is, a 10.3 per cent increase will not be passed on until at least, November 1979, the earliest possible date. That represents about $9 a week for a married pensioner couple and $5.30 a week for a single pensioner. That is the kind of injustice which honourable members opposite are inflicting upon the people in the community least able to afford the impact of that action. 
What a poor contrast that is to the payment of pension equal to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, or 50 per cent for a married couple, when Labor left office. But the Minister for Primary Industry has the contempt to point the bone at the Australian Labor Party when he presided over 50c increases in the couple of years when he was Minister for Social Services. It is the lowest possible political act cynically to score off pensioners. This measure has been introduced by the Liberal Party to raise the expectations of pensioners and then to dash them. It might seem a trifle to honourable members opposite or something that is all in the sport of politics but of course it damages the pensioners. 
In my electorate last week I went to a meeting of 200 pensioners. They were saying: 'Go down and support  Mr Goodluck'.  That is the message members of the Opposition got. We gave him two days to introduce his Bill. There was no sign of him yesterday when the  Speaker  called for notices. He was not even in the House. Today he was in the House but did not give notice of his motion. Notice was given by my colleague, the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  All that the honourable member for Franklin has done has been cynically to score off his own colleagues. Every person in politics knows that a member of a government can get publicity by scoring off his colleagues, by saying that he will change something when he knows he has no chance of changing it. 
On 12 October last year, when proposals were put forward by the Opposition to give effect to the twice-yearly indexation of pensions the honourable members for Franklin, Denison and Isaacs and the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  all voted against those amendments. There was no attempt by them to restore the twice-yearly indexation of pensions. Yet the honourable member for Franklin tries to raise this issue, knowing full well that he will not have the support of the Government parties, to score off his colleagues cynically at the expense of people who may believe him, the pensioners in this community, He is referred to as a Tasmanian devil. We know where his stripe is. 
That is right, a big yellow one. We know where it is. The truth is that when it comes to the crunch he is more like the Scarlet Pimpernel. He is never around to do the things that he promises. Now, with the facilitation of this debate, the moment of truth has come and we will see just where he stands. The people of his State- I go there frequently- have been misled often by this man. They have had the wool pulled over their eyes believing the things that he says in Tasmania. When he comes here it is a different story. He is then cajoled by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman),  the man who now sits next to him, trying to pressure him once again. He is another Minister who made a clear commitment in the last election campaign that there would be twice-yearly indexation of pensions. Government Ministers cannot be believed. This is the most dishonourable government in Australian history. It can never be believed. There is no such thing as a sacrosanct promise under the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or any of his Ministers, or indeed the backbench of the Government parties. 
Now is the chance for the Government to show its bona fides. We will know once and for all whether the Fraser Government is prepared to give justice to pensioners with the restoration of twice annual adjustments to pensions. We will see whether the mouth from the south, the honourable member for Denison, or the honourable member for Franklin or their colleagues will stand up to support the Opposition in support of this measure. Again the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party and the Government Whip pressure members on that side of the House in a disgraceful show of cynicism in this Parliament. Now the time has come when the test should be made and we should hear from the honourable member for Franklin or the honourable member for Denison where they stand on this issue. We will know once and for all whether they are the phoneys that we on this side of the House believe them to be. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Minister for Finance from making a statement about his reported resignation. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the honourable member for Blaxland be not further heard. 
-The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  always makes a reasonable speech and I think he can be described fairly as a reasonable man. Nevertheless, his speech is an apologia for the Government's failures in contrast with the stark reality of the political and economic failure that has taken place under the Fraser Government. It is not remarkable that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a state of the nation address in the House today. The Government has done very poorly over the parliamentary recess since the Parliament last met. The debate today is largely an exercise in self-justification at a time when the Government has no parliamentary business to transact other than to jawbone the Opposition. 
Let us put the backdrop to the Prime Minister's speech into perspective. The main purpose of this Government- its whole reason for beingwas to reduce inflation. The December consumer price index rose by 2.3 per cent. Without the health insurance changes, the increase would have been 3.8 per cent. That means that over the year the inflation rate increase would have been in the 10 per cent range. If we were to do what the Government did when it was in Opposition and when the Australian Labor Party was in government and multiply the percentage increase for one quarter by four to obtain an annual inflation rate, it would have been 15 per cent without taking into account the health changes in the December quarter. In reality the inflation rate in Australia is still running at around 9 per cent, with half a million people out of work. All this has been necessary for a 3 per cent drop in the inflation rate since  Mr Fraser  came to power. 
Interest rates represent another broken promise and another betrayal of the Australian public by this Prime Minister. In the election campaign in December 1977 he said that in 1978 interest rates would fall by 2 per cent. The reality is that they have dropped by one-half of one per cent and they are now rising. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  pointed out a few minutes ago, today the Reserve Bank of Australia called up trading banks' statutory reserve deposits to reduce the money supply and liquidity. Of course, like all commodities when they are in scarce supply, the price goes up and the price of money through interest rates will rise throughout this year when the money supply tightens up as an expressed result of Government policy. 

 Mr Fraser talks about how poorly the Labor Party performed in government. Let me repeat for his benefit, although he is not in the House at the moment, the number of bankruptcies which shows the measure of the Government's success under his prime ministership. In 1977-78 there were 3,134 bankruptcies in contrast with the three years of the Labor Government when they averaged 1,800, So there was a 70 per cent increase in bankruptcies under the Fraser Government. Of course, I have not mentioned the more spectacular bankruptcies like the liquidation of Associated Securities Ltd with the knights no longer in shining armour. I refer to  Sir Reginald  Ansett,  Sir Cecil  Looker and  Sir Henry  Bolte, the great managers of this country. These men who form the backbone of the establishment were caught with their pants down with a $350m crash, not just a $lm crash. Harry Miller has been beaten around the ears for two weeks for the failing Computicket with $lm involved. The $3 50m crash of ASL received one day of reporting in the newspapers. The  Australian Financial Review  in an editorial disgracefully excused the role of these three men as non-executive directors. That is the kind of treatment the members of the Australian public are used to receiving from the people who manage this country, quiet and competent managers in the Liberal Party uniform, the pinstripe suit, who get on with the job. These people generally get on with the job of using people's money, often unwisely, and escaping the consequences. It is a disgrace that a company like Ansett Transport Industries can walk away from a major commercial failure like that and leave small shareholders and unsecured debenture holders in the lurch. The role of  Sir Reginald  Ansett and his co-directors should be investigated by the New South Wales Government because ASL is incorporated in New South Wales. We on this side of the House will be looking to the New South Wales Government to proceed in its investigation of ASL and the background of this massive commercial failure. 
Now let me get on to this question of inflation again. Within three years it was to be fixed by  Mr Fraser;  yet we have had bankruptcies and 250,000 more people are out of work as a result of the Fraser Government's policies.  His  Government has doubled the number of people unemployed in the period it has been in office and now, of course, unemployment is at a record Australian level of half a million. 
In the Prime Minister's speech, apart from the rhetoric, the justification for his Government's policies centred around minerals and energy. He believes that everything will swing around minerals and energy. We on the Opposition side of the House believe that these industries have an important place in Australia and have contributed significantly to Australia's prosperity; but, of course, all does not start and end with them alone. We see major distortions in the figures the Prime Minister mentioned. He mentioned what he has done for the oil industry and how good world parity pricing is. World parity pricing for new discoveries was not fixed by the Fraser Government; it was fixed by the Labor Government in 1975. But the Government has put a levy of old oil, the oil produced by West Australian Pty Ltd, Esso-BHP and the operators at Moonie, but particularly Bass Strait oil, to bring the price to import parity overnight. The result of the express policy to raise $ 1,100m for the Government is that the price of petrol has gone up 60 per cent in one year to $ 1 . 10 or $ 1 . 1 3, depending on where one lives in this country. 
The Labor Government was beaten around the ears by members of the National Country Party and the Liberal Party for taking off the 2c or 3c adjustment under the old petrol price equalisation scheme. Where are the bleating lobby groups from primary industry that we used to hear so much about now when the price of a gallon of petrol is going up by 60 per cent all for the Budget deficit and to give an increase to the oil producers in this country. 

 Mr Fraser says all the things which have happened in new exploration have been a result of his oil pricing policy. Of course, there is a clear distinction to be made between an increase to the producers under the 1977 incremental policy, which presently has Esso-BHP on 26 per cent of import parity, and the greedy levy which the Government put on to take Australian crude oil to import parity overnight, collecting $ 1,100m for the Budget deficit on the way through. It is  Mr Fraser's  obsession with the Budget deficit which brought this measure on and, of course, it must make all export industries, particularly rural industries, less competitive. It is a slug to everybody who drives a motor car in the cities or wherever he may be. The Bass Strait fields which Esso-BHP intends to develop- West Kingfish, Cobia, Fortescue, Flounder and East Kingfishare all feasible at a return which is a fraction of import parity. They could have been developed and will be developed under the 1977 policy without resort to this new levy which the Government put on under the guise of an energy policy. Of course, it has nothing to do with energy. It is to do with  Mr Fraser's  Budget deficit  a  nd his efforts to raise $ 1 ,000m. 
The Prime Minister fantasises and distorts oil drilling figures. He says how successful he has been in getting new exploration in this country. He says that the number of exploration wells drilled this year will be between 83 and 143. The Australian Petroleum Exploration Association, which is the industry group covering the oil industry, assesses the number at 81. It does not talk about 143. Like the Prime Minister's interest rate promise, his figuring is another piece of fantasy. In fact, the Australian Mining Industry Council estimates that expenditure on exploration will fall from $144m in 1977 to $1 15m in the current financial year, a drop of 20 per cent. So 8 1 wells will be drilled this year, of which only 39 will be off-shore. The off-shore wells are the ones which seem to be the most prospective. 
Last year only 52 wells were drilled. Admittedly that was more than the year before, but only 20 of them were off-shore wells. This is the great success about which the Prime Minister talks. Contrast it with what has happened in Canada, a comparable country. In 1977 we drilled about 30 wells; Canada drilled 2,800 wells. In 1978 we drilled 52 wells, and the Canadians drilled 3,200 wells. God, surely the Prime Minister cannot boast about that as a record. The question all revolves around the fact that the Government gave incremental increases to the oil producers without a quid pro quo on exploration, and the exploration has just not taken place. So the Prime Minister is only talking about figures. 
He believes he can fool most of the people most of the time, but, of course, in the end he gets found out. The result is that petrol prices have gone up 60 per cent and he has gained $ 1,000m for revenue and the public can just go and eat its hat. That is the cynical view he takes. By being locked into import parity we will suffer as the Iranian crisis pushes up the oil price set by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. This price will feed into Australian prices and will flow through the consumer price index, through wage indexation and back into inflation. So the Prime Minister's policy will damage the economy through a contraction in the gross domestic product, employment and aggregate exports. It will increase the average price of domestically produced oil products by 40 per cent. 
Let me deal with the Prime Minister's minerals promises. He talked about $4,000m worth of projects. We on this side of the House assess the projects at about $3,650m. There is not so much difference in that, but in the election campaign the Prime Minister talked about $6,000m and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  talked about $ 14,000m worth of mineral projects. When we analyse the things which are going and the things which are not we see that about $7 14m will be spent in the current financial year and about $7 14m in the following financial year. A figure of $700m is significant but hardly the kind of figure which will drag us back into prosperity. It does not even really rank with manufacturing. That much at least will be spent on manufacturing industry over the period. 
The Prime Minister, of course, does not mention the fact that mining of the coking coal deposit at Hail Creek and Nebo in Queensland will not be starting. Under a cloud in Western Australia are the Alwest project and the iron ore mines of Goldsworthy, Area C, Marandoo and Deepdale. These are all in his mix. The honourable member for Moore knows as well as I do that, given the fact that there is about 20 million tonnes of excess capacity in the Pilbara this year with the Hammersley concentrator and the Mount Newman concentrator coming on line, these projects are further down the line. Of course, the Prime Minister never mentions this. He thinks he can fool everybody and traffic in half truths. 
He never mentions the North West Shelf, and this is the one thing in which he ought to be interested. During the recess he had two disastrous trips overseas. The first was to the United States of America. After he had been there for a week we heard about nothing but a cheese quota. He ought to have been talking about selling North West Shelf gas. Instead of going to Japan he went to India and spent half his time on a sightseeing tour of India. In fact, the thing he should be doing most is trying to sell liquid natural gas so that the feasibility study on the North West Shelf can be completed. But he did not turn his hand to gas or to anything of national importance. He was mucking around with the cheese quota and beef prices because he thought it might bolster the value of sales on his own farm. It is still the farmer in him predominating. He does not get down to real markets such as those in the Middle East mentioned by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has been talking about the Middle East for years.  Mr Anthony  came back from there yesterday and all of a sudden he has discovered the Middle East as a market. 
What is wrong with the Government putting our relationship with Japan back together and trying to get a more prosperous basis? Instead of that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is turning his back on the Association of South East Asian Nations with his air fare policy,  Mr Anthony  is having a running gun battle with the steel companies of Japan and the relationship with Japan is constantly under pressure. Where is  Mr Fraser  going? He is going to aggrandise himself with Jimmy Carter and Helmut Schmidt. It is beyond me why our Prime Minister feels he must get the imprimatur of  President  Jimmy Carter, who has an economic policy in contradistinction to the Australian Government's policy.  President  Carter has an expansionary policy but  Mr Fraser  believes he must have his imprimatur of a non-expansionary policy. Of course, the Prime Minister wants to aggrandise himself. He sees himself as a world statesman and does not realise that he is the Prime Minister of a country with a population of between 13 million and 14 million Europeans at the bottom end of Asia. He ought to be looking to markets in Asia. Instead of that he is still in the northern hemisphere doing the same things Bob Menzies was doing 15 years ago. 
No matter where one looks, this Government has no creditability in its trade or domestic policy. It is a disastrous government and it is about time the people of Australia started to look at the record. We have had three years of deprivation, cuts in government services and high unemployment. We have half a million Australians, mostly young people, out of work. Interest rates are rising again- all this for a 3 per cent drop in inflation- and we have no guarantee that it will be even that by the end of this year. So much for the record of this Prime Minister. If Government supporters are going to stick to that economic record all we on this side of the House can say, speaking politically, is that we hope they stick right with it. If they do, by the end of 1980 they will go back into Opposition as fast as they came to government, but probably the transition will not be as bloody. 
-Since the Fraser Government came to power in 1975 petrol prices have increased by 50c a gallon. In 1 975 the price of petrol was just over 60 cents a gallon. It is now over $ 1 .  1 0 a gallon and it is $ 1 . 20 a gallon in some parts of the country. In this city it is $1.20. There has been an 80 per cent increase in three years as an express result of the decisions of the Fraser Government taken in the 1977 and 1978 Budgets, but more particularly the 1978 Budget which raised the excise, or what is called the import parity levy, on old oil by $ 10.26 a barrel, which amount accrues to the Commonwealth of Australia. In the 1977 Budget the Government instituted a policy to gradually raise the producer price of Australian domestically produced petroleum. The increase was to 1 0 per cent of import parity in 1978; it is 20 per cent in 1979; it will be 3 5 per cent in 1 980 and up to 50 per cent in 1 98 1 . Whilst the Opposition had reservations about some of the questions concerning the distribution of this transfer of wealth from the community to the corporations, it nevertheless supported the concept of movement in the producer price because it was obvious, if we were to develop some of the more marginal pools of oil in Bass Strait, that we had to pay the producers more than $2.33 a barrel. However, we had some reservations about the direction of the windfalls. In 1 978 there was this outrageous policy introduced by the Government to take the whole lot from 20 per cent to 100 per cent of import parity in 1979. That has nothing to do with the producers; it is all to do with revenue for the Government. The result is that in the last six months there has been a 40 per cent increase in the price of petrol. Because of projected increases in costs, many service station proprietors and other people in the oil industry are predicting a price of $1.60 a gallon towards the end of this year. 
This policy has imposed an enormous economic burden on the Australian public, Australian industry and Australian agriculture and is contrary to the advice given to the Government by the Industries Assistance Commission and any other body interested in energy policy. The pure and simple reason for the imposition of this crude oil levy in 1978 was to gain revenue to reduce the size of the Commonwealth Budget deficit. This gets back to the obsession of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  with the Budget deficit. In this financial year the Commonwealth will collect by way of the crude oil levy, the $3 a barrel excise and the company tax which the producers pay from those three sources $ 1,100m. So the Government cannot put the blame for this problem on the producer price. It cannot say that the Opposition does not want to increase the price in order to develop marginal fields. The Government has brought in this policy purely to raise revenue. It comes as a result of this obsession with the deficit. 
The Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  seems to be confused whenever he speaks about this policy. He always calls it 'the import parity policy'. He seems to believe, mistakenly, that the import parity policy has something to do with the producers. It has very little to do with the producers. The stepped increase which the producers receive, in stages of 10 per cent, 20 per cent, 35 per cent and 50 per cent, represents only a very small proportion of the import parity price. It is true that import parity or opportunity cost is the only yardstick of measurement; but, given that there was a certain amount of unanimity between the major parties on the stepping of the increase to producers relative to import parity, why did the Government take the price to import parity immediately? There was no reason. 
The Minister tried to market the increases as an energy conservation policy. He said that the increases would reduce the consumption of petrol. Petrol is a very inelastic commodity in terms of price. People require petrol. Certainly people in rural industry and most people in the cities require it. In a city such as Canberra, which is designed for the private motor vehicle, people will not buy less petrol because the price has gone up to $1.10 a gallon. A United States of America transport economics group suggested on the basis of private studies that the price would need to go beyond $4 a gallon in 1978 prices before there would be any sizable let-up in demand in that country. We must bear in mind that the price of petroleum in the United States increased by 400 per cent between 1973 and 1975. Yet per capita consumption of petroleum did not drop at all. In fact it increased. So this demand management policy is very dubious. I will admit that over a long period of time price is an important determinant in the production of alternative energy. We on this side of the House are not taking the approach that we can afford to have a cheap energy policy in terms of production. But this is not what the question is about. This dear energy policy has been foisted on Australia by the Government purely for budgetary reasons, because of the deficit. It has nothing to do with allocation reasons or demand management reasons. 
The Government could have done things such as were done by the United States Senate and House of Representatives or by the Canadians. If it was worried about consumption it could have taken direct measures, such as requiring Australian motor vehicle manufacturers to meet certain consumption standards. In the United States in a period of seven years the consumption of the average motor vehicle will go from something like 14 miles a gallon to 28 miles a gallon. The US motor car fleet will have a consumption of 28 to 30 miles a gallon some time in the mid-1980s. Yet what has this Government done? Not a thing. These measures are all marketed as an energy conservation policy. It is really a question of the Budget deficit and giving the oil companies additional revenue. All the Government has done about conservation so far is to poll newspapers and look at a publicity campaign. Given the fact that the Government had done nothing previously and very little this year, one can only take the view that these moves will not come to much. The Government urges conservation but will take no hard decisions about it. 
On the other side of the ledger, the Government says that this policy encourages exploration activity. I agree that this is certainly so in terms of the producer price under the 1 977 policy. It is obvious that if oil can be produced at $2.33 a barrel in Bass Strait the price per barrel must rise for the production of oil from the small pools such as West Kingfish, Cobia or some of the other small pools because infrastructure costs are pretty much the same whether there is a big pool or a small pool underneath the production platforms and what-have-you. Therefore there must be an incremental price scale to allow for the difference. 
Increased exploration activity is more a consequence of the Labor Government's policy of import parity for new discoveries which was made in September 1975 and- I will give the Government this point- reiterated in 1976. That was the new discoveries policy. Price is a determinant in exploration. But, in terms of old oil, Esso-BHP particularly will try to do what it can in Bass Strait with additional revenues. The Government gave it a golden handshake without any specific guarantees of exploration expenditure. I put it to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the revenues to this conglomerate far outstrip any current expenditure plans that it has for exploration in Bass Strait. It is true that Esso-BHP will do things in other parts of the country, and for that it is to be applauded; but to say that the policy rests on conservation and exploration is twaddle, and the Minister knows it. He might think that he can fool most of the people most of the time, but he certainly cannot fool us on this side of the House. 
In this debate I want to make the simple distinction that the 1978 policy which pushes the price to import parity has nothing to do with the producer price; it is about the Government getting revenue. The Opposition does not object to the incremental 1977 policy; we do object to the 1978 policy. Of course, what we are seeing now is that, with the Iranian situation, prices are moving up because of a shortage of oil in the world and because the spot price spills into long term prices. On the front page of the  Australian Financial Review  today is a story of an increase of $2 a barrel for Venezuelan oil. There will be a 9.35 per cent increase in the price of oil from Kuwait, which flows straight into import parity prices because the Government is caught up with the import parity program. The Minister for National Development shakes his head. In the middle of this year he will have to adjust the import parity pricing mechanism again to set the standard for excise, and by then the price will be immeasurably higher. No doubt in the latter part of this year we will hear him say: 'Do not blame us for the increases in energy costs and petrol prices. They have come from that dreadful Iranian crisis and from the member states of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries'. They have come from the 1978 Budget. They have come from the stupidity of linking Australia to an import parity situation when it did not need to be. 
The policy has had a questionable exploration stimulus and very little to do with conservation, but it has a lot to do with inflation. If one looks at the fuel component of inflation in the consumer price index for the December quarter one finds that petrol plays a very large part. The Industries Assistance Commission says that import parity pricing will increase the CPI by 2.1 per cent in the next one to two years. Inflation is already at 7.9 per cent and that increase could push it to 10 per cent. Reducing inflation from 12 per cent for the year ended 1975 to 9 per cent for the year ended 1978 has been advertised as the great achievement of the Fraser Government in office. Inflation could be back up to a rate of 10 per cent because of this question of energy. Why should we have this policy? What is the benefit to us? The only reason for the policy is this Government 's obsession with the Budget deficit. 
Australia was once shielded from international energy prices. In 1973, when the world was stood on its ear by the OPEC states, 65 to 67 per cent of our oil production came from Bass Strait and we were not caught up in the fracas. We are not involved even today. But, of course, we must give the producers more to develop marginal pools and so keep that self-sufficiency, and we must stand by import parity pricing for new discoveries to encourage exploration. We are handed this nonsense by the Government that it has a right to collect $ 1,100m on the way through and then market this as an energy policy. It is just so much bunkum. 
The Prime Minister is talking a lot about exports these days but every agricultural industry will be damaged by the increase in the fuel price. A couple of years ago the sycophants in the National Country Party supported the then Opposition in running down the Labor Government for lifting the 2c or 3c differential under the old fuel equalisation scheme for rural centres. What are they saying today about the increase in the price of petrol of 40c and 50c a gallon, and even more in some centres? It is not a 2c or 3c increase now but we hear very little from them. All those rural spokesmen who expressed such mock indignation at the former Labor Government's shift in policy are saying very little now. Of course, they very often talk from the point of view of their politics rather than about the effect on the industries they claim to represent. 
Today's  Financial Review  published a letter from  Mr Stewart  of the Western Mining Corporation stating that the Government's action will discriminate against export industries, against the mining industry and against the agricultural industries. They will have to pay, but why? Why should we, a country with 70 per cent selfsufficiency and a realistic relativity price for producers, get caught up with import parity? Because the Government dreamed it up. It was  Mr Fraser's  obsession, and no doubt an invention of the Treasury. The Treasury would have had its hands in it somewhere along the way. The Industries Assistance Commission's estimate of unemployment is that aggregate employment will decrease by 0.8 per cent and rural employment by 2.8 per cent. This is an increase in total unemployment of 48,000 people, and in rural unemployment of 8,400 people. So, the rural community will be really hit by this change in policy.  Mr Fraser  said last week - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member should not persist in referring to the Prime Minister by name. 
The Prime Minister said last week: 
With inflation under control, the farming community is well able to compete effectively and very efficiently. 
In other words, he is not going to help the primary industry community at all. We on this side of the House say that the Government must urgently review the import parity levy policy, retain a realistic pricing policy to producers and drop its obsession with the Budget deficit. 
My question, which I address to the Minister for Trade and Resources, refers to coal rather than iron ore. Will the Minister be approving coal contracts negotiated with Japan at prices well below the parameters fixed by the Government? If such contracts are to be approved, what then is the value, purpose and future of the Minister's export guideline policy? 
-The matter of public importance raised by the Opposition today reads: 
The failure of the Government to introduce national companies and securities legislation causing financial loss to many people, as evidenced by Associated Securities Limited failure. 
We have heard an expose of the Government's belated thinking on this question of securities and exchange legislation but it needs to be pointed out, as it was so ably by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  that the corporation power of the Constitution permits the Commonwealth to legislate for the establishment of a national securities and companies commission. Legislation along those lines was introduced by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith, in August 1976 and it was defeated by the Government. So let us not have any of this humbug about how the Government is waiting to bring in legislation. It will introduce legislation on terms and conditions which suit State Liberal Party premiers. That is all the Government is interested in.  Senator Rae  was  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange and he introduced a report recommending a securities institute. He has never made the Fraser Ministry purely and simply because he stood on the corns of the financial interests which run the stock exchanges and the major companies. I see the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  is in the House and he is to follow me in this debate. He will be putting the exclusive views of the Melbourne financial establishment and in particular defending  Sir Reginald  Ansett. That will be his job in the Parliament and in this debate. 
Well, if the honourable member does not do that it will be because I have blown the whistle on him. Nothing has been written in the Victorian Press about Associated Securities Limited. This has been the biggest crash in Australia's history but hardly a line has been written about it in the Melbourne Press. Until last Sunday we saw hardly a line anywhere. The losses could be as high as $60m. The company could have debts of $ 1 70m and investors funds to the amount of $244m are frozen which makes the Computicket issue pale into insignificance when compared with the magnitude of this matter. But of course, the principles are the same. People, through incompetence, negligence and conflict of interests, can take the public to the cleaners and carry on. 
We talked about  Sir Reginald  Ansett,  Sir Henry  Bolte and  Sir Cecil  Looker who are directors of Associated Securities Limited and who are also directors of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. They were the people who took the decision to buy half of Associated Securities Limited. They were the people who breathed life back into ASL.  Sir Reginald  Ansett also wrote to his shareholders and debenture holders urging them to invest in ASL. Of course the result was that those people placed their faith in that company because of the names associated with it. What have we seen? We have seen the thing go to the wall. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said, the Statex Service of the Sydney Stock Exchange had underwritten the profitability of this company as late as last year. It wrote down the capital value of the lands and real estates which were acquired by this company in the 1970s. Yet Touche Ross and Co. the accountants for this company left them at their current values. Of course, the famous Touche Ross and Co. is the auditor and accountant for Gollin and Co. Ltd so I need not say any more about that. 
That is right. He was Fraser 's research officer. That company alone has incorrectly valued this company's assets. The result is that every other company, every bank and every financial institution which was asked to look at ASL said that one could not touch it without writing off at least $30m or $40m worth of assets. Yet, what do we find? We find the Ansett group going in, the prospectuses being issued and then this disgraceful editorial in the  Australian Financial Review  written, I believe, from Melbourne, excusing  Sir Reginald  Ansett and Looker and Bolte because they were nonexecutive directors. They signed the prospectus. I have a copy of the thing here. Their names are on it.  Sir Reginald  Ansett 's photograph is on the front page. The result is, of course, that now people's savings are locked up. I have letters from people here. I have one from a 78 year old couple saying that their life savings are gone. People trusted those directors. But do honourable members think that  Sir Reginald  Ansett or Bolte or Looker will not be at the next Melbourne Cup with the top hats and white carnations, in the pin striped suits- the great money managers of Australia in their Liberal Party uniform? Of course they will be there. 
Honourable members do not think the public will do anything about the situation or that the Government will do anything about it because the law is not there, as the Deputy Leader of the Opposition pointed out. There has never been a law. We are always protecting these kinds of shonky practices. When ASL could not be managed Ansett Transport Industries, at a meeting in its board room, pulled the plug on ASL when its chairman was out of the country. Everyone was away when the company went under. Ansett Transport Industries made a decision to bail out of the situation and what happened? Where is all the money? The loss will be suffered by the small investors- not the promoters who are involved in Computicket- who will lose in unsecured notes and second ranking debentures and the like. 
We go back to the responsibility. It comes back to competence, honesty and the question of negligence. If the Ansett Transport group bought into this company to manage it and to bring investments back into it to try to save it, then the Ansett group has a moral and legal obligation to do that. Instead of that, with the conflict of interest, that group went in to protect Ansett Transport Industries as against ASL because it thought that ultimately the viability of Ansett Transport Industries would be threatened. Therefore Ansett has just bailed out of the situation and let ASL fall apart. The result is that the public lose. One of the inexplicable things about this matter was that a prospectus for ASL was underwritten by the Commonwealth Bank of 
Australia among others. What is the Commonwealth Bank, which is a Commonwealth instrumentality, doing underwriting a prospectus for a company such as ASL. That bank has massive real estate experience. It has the largest home saving loans division of any bank in the Commonwealth. Why would this banking institution not be able to decipher the accounts of ASL and say: 'We will not be associated with such a prospectus'? 
Exactly. What happened was that a message went through from the Government because the untouchables were involved, that is Bolte, Ansett and Looker, the great men. They cannot be touched. The Commonwealth Bank goes into the ring and does what it has to do. It underwrites a prospectus knowing the situation full well. I get around the merchant banking community, the banking community and the financial community just like other members of Parliament. Those communities have been talking about this matter for a long time. They have been saying that this company was basically unsound. Yet a prospectus went out as late as last September. Why did the directors not withdraw the prospectus in December 1978 instead of a month later when the company revised its losses upwards from $1.5m to $3.5m for the half year? This happened in December. The company itself had to revise the losses. Yet the prospectus was still out. It was out until the end of January. Even then, when it was withdrawn, the Melbourne Stock Exchange was not told why the prospectus was withdrawn. The Melbourne Stock Exchange found out about the difficulties of ASL on 8 February. 
These are the kinds of high jinks which have been going on. Companies are duty bound to notify the stock exchange of any information which will have a material effect upon the price of a company's shares. Why did Ansett Transport Industries not notify the stock exchange of its decision, taken on 24 January, not to bail out ASL and, in fact, to dump ASL? Yet, now that the Ansett share price has fallen it means that every person who subscribed to or bought shares in Ansett Transport Industries after 24 January was penalised between then and 8 February when it was finally known that Ansett had bailed out of ASL taking, of course, massive losses unto itself as a result. Wherever we look these people are protected. There is nothing in the newspapers. Nobody says anything about the matter. If the newspapers get too rough, Ansett Transport Industries threatens them with their advertising. The whole old boy network operates. The establishment moves straight in to protect these people. It does not matter when somebody produces a substantive and substantial report on what to do, as the Rae Committee did.  Senator Rae  himself was penalised in the Liberal Party for so doing. He now knows he will never make ministerial rank. He paid the ultimate price for his service to the public. But service to the public is not to figure with these people. They will never learn their lesson. The mining booms of the Sydney and Melbourne stock exchanges of 1970 and 1971 are now eight years behind us. Eight years have passed and the Rae Committee - 
That is right. The honourable member for Macarthur was a stockbroking adviser during that boom. Eight years have passed and yet no securities and exchange commission has been established. When we try to introduce such legislation it is said that it is confrontation and that we have to work it out with the States as was done with other matters such as off-shore legislation. Although we have power over off-shore matters we are told that we have to work them out with the States. The truth is that any alibi is put forward to stop legislation being introduced to hold these people in check and make them legally responsible and accountable for their actions. That is the issue at hand. John Darling and Shanahan, the people in ASL who moved the company into real estate, are the people behind this crash, but the people smothering it are the Victorian establishment and this Government which protects these three knight directors from Victoria. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is the policy of this Government to establish uranium mining and marketing on the basis of the recommendations of the Ranger uranium environmental inquiry. The announcement today of the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  is further evidence of the Government's failure to honour that commitment. One of the most significant recommendations of the Fox commission was that: 
Construction of mines in the region - 
That is the Alligator Rivers Region- be commenced sequentially at appropriate intervals. 
On the basis of the Minister's statement it is obvious that the Government has no intention that such development should be sequential. There are basic environmental concerns as well as concerns related to the orderly development of the Northern Territory economy and infrastructure dictating the wisdom of sequential development. In addition, however, there is the prospect of chaotic results in the international uranium market if development is not sequential. The Minister, in his statement, notes that exports from Mary Kathleen are proceeding, and that production at Ranger is expected to begin in 1981-82. The intention of the Ranger partners is to produce 3,000 tonnes per annum of uranium oxide in yellowcake, or double that amount if market conditions allow. The Nabarlek deposit contains 9,000 tonnes of uranium oxide, which is proposed to be extracted at the rate of 1,080 tonnes per annum. 
On 28 February the Western Australian Government and the Australian Government gave approval for the development of Western 
Mining Corporation's $900m uranium mine at Yeelirrie in Western Australia. It is expected that this mine and mill will become productive before 1985, with an initial output of about 4,000 tonnes of uranium oxide per annum. The Minister's statement indicates that the Government intends to proceed as quickly as possible with approval of the Jabiluka and Koongarra deposits in the Alligator Rivers Region. The intention of Pancontinental Mining Ltd has been to produce initially 3,000 tonnes of uranium oxide at Jabiluka, rising to 4,500 tonnes and then to 9,000 tonnes, subject to market conditions. Noranda's Koongarra proposal may produce 2,000 tonnes of uranium oxide per annum. Therefore, at the pace of the Government's approvals to date, we might expect that by the middle of 1979 the Government will have granted approvals which would provide authority for the export, within a few years, of 19,000 tonnes of uranium oxide. This is not inconsistent with the prediction of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, in its last annual report, that Australia could contract to supply up to 10,000 tonnes of uranium per annum by 1985. It is to be noted, however, that the Commission's prediction sees a decline from its prediction in 1976 that Australia could be then exporting between 16,000 and 19,000 tonnes per annum. The change in the Commission's estimates reflects both sales by other countries and, of considerable importance, the continual delay in nuclear power programs and the cancellation of a number of reactor contracts. 
It must be emphasised, therefore, that the Government, which has stressed the size of the investments that it is attracting to the Australian uranium industry, is creating a situation where, in a matter of a few years, our supply capacity could greatly exceed demand. This would, of course, have rapid consequences for the earnings on the large uranium investments that had been made. In the past, it has been possible to argue that the low cost of extracting Australian uranium gave it a natural price advantage. This advantage is rapidly being overtaken by the exploration of large, new uranium provinces in the western United States and Canada. There is, however, in the Government's approach to this subject, not the slightest air of caution or concern, even for the commercial risks- given that the Government's policy is based upon commercial considerations. 
In January, the Deputy Prime Minister announced a new Government approach to uranium sales contracts. If I might, I will quote directly from the statement that he then made: 
Companies which have received Commonwealth approval to develop uranium deposits will be allowed to negotiate sales contracts with prospective customers which provide that delivery is conditional on safeguards agreements being concluded with the customer countries before delivery takes place. 
This means that the Ranger partners may proceed to negotiate such sales arrangements in accordance with the Government's export marketing policy. 
Other companies will be permitted to proceed with similar sales arrangements as and when Commonwealth development approval of their project is given. 
Companies will thus be able to enter into contracts to secure markets in order to help finance development. Under these arrangements, no deliveries of uranium will be made until such time as a safeguards agreement is in effect between Australia and the customer country. 
Despite the occasional utilisation of the word safeguards', in this statement, the clear meaning of the statement is that the Government is panicking at the prospect that it may lose its place in the world uranium market. Panic and excessive enthusiasm are the stock-in-trade of the Deputy Prime Minister, who knows no way of approaching any subject other than with an axe. That is the farmer in him. 
A Government committed to orderly marketing of uranium would be looking to sensible policies and facing up to the hard issues of sequential marketing. Somebody should be deciding who, among these various competing uranium miners, should be allowed to begin, and in what order. But this is not a Government to take hard decisions. If the farmers who run this Government are incapable of establishing an orderly marketing system for beef, then I suppose that we should not expect too much from them in respect to the establishment of a basis for the orderly marketing of uranium. 
I have focused my remarks so far on the commercial aspects of the Government's proposal to make this very point- that it cannot even be trusted to adopt sensible long-term approaches to mineral development and marketing. It has no foresight. It is bereft of ideas in this respect. 
Whilst we have seen this rush to grant approval for mining operations. We have not seen evidence of significant developments in other areas of the Government's policies announced in respect of uranium export. What progress has been made in negotiations between the Commonwealth and State governments concerning nuclear codes? Of this,  Mr Speaker,  we have yet to be informed. On the basis of what has been said privately- again nothing. What progress has been made with the development of satisfactory international arrangements to protect nonproliferation concerns? Very little. To return to the commercial aspect; what contracts have been concluded with anybody for the sale of uranium? We know of none; to date not one contract has been concluded. 
In the last week of the last session of the Parliament, the Foreign Minister  (Mr Peacock)  tabled in the House the document known as the Model Safeguards Agreement'. In doing so, he himself made the point that the document served no further purpose to the Parliament at all. This is obviously what we can continue to expect from the Government in the matters of the greatest political and strategic importance affecting uranium export- silence, until it is too late. What the 'Model Safeguards Agreement' tabling in November showed us was that it was the same document as had been obtained and published by the  Sydney Morning Herald  in June 1978. It had been obtained from a foreign Government, one of the 20 or so Governments to which the agreement proposals were put. 
We know that that document was the basis of negotiation and conclusion of agreements with Finland and the Philippines. We also know that Euratom and the European Commission have stood in the way of conclusion of a United Kingdom- Australia agreement. We also know that officials have negotiated an agreement with South Korea. We do not know why the Government does not plan to proceed with that agreement at this stage. 
We know that in September or October officials concluded an agreement with Iran. The reason why that agreement has not been proceeded with is painfully obvious to us all. Had not events in Iran moved so quickly we would, no doubt, have been committed by now to safeguards arrangements with Iran covering the transfer of uranium to Iran into the next century. However, as honourable members will know, in November 1978 the  Chairman  of the Iranian Atomic Energy Authority was removed from office to face charges of mismanagement and embezzlement. And we all know that the Government with which we would have had a safeguards agreement no longer exists. Moreover, we know very little to date about what kind of government will take its place. We do not know the other governments with whom the Government has been negotiating agreements. That is all a matter of secrecy. But the history of the agreement with Iran points to the inadequacy, the fragility and the cumbersome nature of such agreements. The Government's safeguards policy is essentially a cosmetic package intended to facilitate the commercial trade interests of the  Deputy  Prime Minister. As he would see it, he is the Minister with the export control authority, the uranium king of Australia, the man who has not yet sold one tonne of Australian uranium. The role of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  and the Minister for Foreign Affairs is to try to put fine clothes on these commercial objectives. 
The continuing concerns of the Australian people in respect of the uranium industry focus especially on nuclear waste disposal and nuclear non-proliferation. Over the past two years, this Government has sought to wash its hands of the waste issue, declaring that to be the responsibility of consumer countries. It has also declared that adequate, satisfactory disposal methods exist. The Minister for National Development produced a piece of vitrified glass from his trouser pocked to demonstrate his faith in the vitrification process. Now, in the past month, the Minister, without any apparent embarrassment, has produced cash from the same pocket to support research by Professor Ted Ringwood of the Australian National University on a new process for nuclear waste disposal known as Synroc, a complete departure from the vitrification process. At the basis of Ringwood 's proposal is his doubt about the satisfactory nature and safety of the established waste disposal strategies that the Government earlier endorsed as satisfactory. That endorsement lasted nine or 10 months. Now the Government is shifting away from it. The Ringwood episode, if we may call it that, illustrates very clearly the folly of the Government's overall approach to this subject. From the outset, its objective has been to minimise public discussion, to avoid as far as possible the provision of information, to refuse to enter into debate in the Parliament and to seek to cover up problems in the nuclear industry by giving soothing assurances. Now it has had to admit, in one key area, that this is not so. It will be forced to admit at some point that it should be adopting a sequential approach to mining. The bitter fact from our point of view is that those who are now in Government will have to admit that mistake as members of the Opposition, and that we, as members of the then Government, will be trying to clean up the mess. The same secretive approach damages the Government's nonproliferation strategy. The  Deputy  Prime Minister has failed to answer questions that we have asked him about the International Fuel Cycle Evaluation (INFCE). The Foreign Minister has demonstrated in his answers to questions his incompetence to handle or understand the issues involved in safeguards agreements. The safeguards agreements that the Government is pursuing are as far from adequate as one could imagine as a basis for nuclear non-proliferation. Moreover, they are so cumbersome that they are likely to collapse under their own weight. What is needed is a more extensive and thoughtful approach by the Government to the management of the nuclear fuel cycle and, in particular, the avoidance of national access to or control over weapons-usable material and the means for their production. 
In January, the Deputy Prime Minister also announced that Australia was contemplating the establishment of a commercial uranium enrichment industry. His statement made a very brief reference to the need for multi-national participation in new enrichment plants for nonproliferation reasons, but offered no further explanation of that remark, other than to say that Australia was among the countries that were studying the subject in the International Fuel Cycle Evaluation. 
The Government has given us no additional information. That is all we have heard from it. This is an accurate portrayal of the facts. If the Government imagines that the evaluation will, by the end of this year, produce quick, feasible solutions to non-proliferation problems, then it is guilty of self-delusion. As one writer on non-proliferation observed recently: 'There are no simple solutions that are feasible, there are no feasible solutions that are simple, and no solutions at all that are applicable across the board '. It is time that the Government came in here and told the Parliament which areas of the INFCE program it is participating in, what progress has been made and what consequences these developments may have for Australian policy. The Government must know that not even its own back bench members accept being kept in the dark and it will not be able to put off indefinitely the proper discussion of these issues. 
A point which has been raised in the debate by my colleague, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  relates to the setting up of the Kakadu National Park. This has still not occurred. Announcements have taken place concerning the development of Australian uranium deposits, yet all the infrastructure of policy which the Government promised in 1977 and 1978 has yet to come about. To date Australia's uranium king, the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony),  has not got one uranium contract despite the fact that agreements have been concluded with other countries and that mines have been given the right to proceed. It is a foolish policy even on a commercial basis alone, without any environmental consideration. On that basis the Government is looking at a production of 19,000 tonnes per annum at the most, from the mines to which it agreed, in a market which at the moment I think has a total world market of 40,000 tonnes. The Government is contemplating a 50 per cent increment to a market which is, by any standards, fragile. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hodges)  adjourned. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that Commonwealth revenue will benefit this year to the tune of $ 1,400m from the crude oil levies and from company tax upon oil producers? Is it also a fact that the Commonwealth will collect $910m this year from excise on refined petroleum products? How does the Government justify the enormous imposition of $2,3 10m of petroleum taxes upon the public in terms of its anti-inflation objectives? Is it simply that the Government's obsession with the Budget deficit transcends any notion of fair petrol pricing and anti-inflation policy? Finally, will the Government review its 1978 import parity levy policy to reduce the impost of its inequitable petroleum taxes? 
-The Government's decision to join the International Energy Agency is a dangerous one for Australia. On the information made available to the Opposition through the speech of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  the Opposition must oppose this decision. The International Energy Agency was set up at the instigation of the United States of America to confront the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries and to ensure adequate supplies of oil to the United States and the other motor economies. The Labor Government opposed it when it was established and the Fraser Government opposed it in 1976. Now the Government has decided to put Australia's head into the noose without adequate explanation of the change. 
I state now why the Labor Party opposes Australia's entry into the International Energy Agency. Firstly, Australia is a sovereign country with problems of isolation and economies of scale peculiar to itself and unlike the problems facing the great majority of International Energy Agency countries. Membership of the IEA links Australia with energy consumption patterns that could be harmful to Australia's best interests. The Minister gives no indication of how long Australia has to remain a member or under what conditions it can withdraw. Therefore it is assumed that Australia is locked into the organisation for the foreseeable future. Secondly, Australia must develop a long overdue energy policy, something this Government has singularly failed to do. By joining the International Energy Agency the Government has largely abrogated this function in favour of taking orders from overseas, or supplementing its energy policy from overseas. The Minister spoke of certain assurances concerning uranium and foreign investment but they are not the beginning and end of an energy policy. We have nothing yet to compare with the Schlesinger proposals in the US. If news reports are to be believed, even New Zealand has a better energy policy than the Fraser Government. The Minister has failed totally to give assurances as to the exact role Australia is to play in international energy matters or to state precisely what responsibilities it has to assume. The irresponsibility of the Minister in this regard is indicated in two paragraphs on page 6 of his statement. He stated: 
This policy will continue and it is the Government's understanding that, having regard to the current level of Australia's self-sufficiency in crude oil and an anticipated decline in this level in the future, it would not expect that the degree of emergency which the Emergency Oil Sharing System (EOSS) is designed to accommodate would be likely to require the net export of domestically produced crude oil from Australia. The Government understands that the obligations it would be assuming during an emergency situation would more likely relate to the diversion of occasional cargoes of imported crude oil to other member countries. 
The second paragraph reads: 
In certain circumstances Australia might wish, consistent with the obligation it is assuming under the EOSS to export some indigenous crude oil in order to ensure, through access to suitable imported crudes, an overall balanced supply. 
These words form the crux, the kernel, of the speech made by the Minister. Let us look at the dubious phrases it contains: 
. Australia might wish, consistent with the obligation it is assuming under the EOSS to export some indigenous crude . . . 
That is a very shaky basis indeed on which to act. An earlier part of the statement reads: 
. It would not expect - 
What kind of assurance is that? I repeat: 
 It would not expect that the degree of emergency which the Emergency Oil Sharing System is designed to accommodate would be likely - 
The emphasis is on the words 'would be likely'- to require the net export of domestically produced crude oil from Australia. 
The Minister gives us no assurance at all. We could be exporting domestic crude from Australia to the northern hemisphere under these arrangements. The statement continues: 
The Government understands - 
The emphasis is on the word 'understands'- that the obligations it would be assuming during an emergency situation would more likely relate to the diversion of occasional cargoes - 
The emphasis being on the words 'occasional cargoes'- of imported crude oil to other member countries. 
I just reiterate these words: 
In certain circumstances Australia might wish, consistent with the obligation it is assuming under the EOSS to export some indigenous crude oil in order to ensure, through access to suitable imported crudes, an overall balanced supply. 
What does that mean? What do we take from that? What it means is that the Government does not know what it means. It ill becomes the Minister to make such a speech. I know that the speech was put together by an interdepartmental committee today. That is the extent of the Government's energy policy and it shows how hard it thinks about these things. This is another patch and fill operation. There are no indications or assurances by the Minister. Let me read from another section of the Minister's speech. He said: 
In joining the IEA, we have achieved satisfactory conditions fully in accord with our national interests. 
Well, he could have fooled me. I did not realise that the export of indigenous crude oil and the diversion of cargoes was in accordance with our national interest! Let us look at the countries involved in this International Energy Agency and let us think about how many of them have 70 per cent self-sufficiency in crude and are located in our part of the world. The countries involved are listed as follows:  . . Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxemburg, the Netherlands . . . 
And the only one situated in this part of the world is New Zealand. Why would New Zealand be in the Agency? It has nothing. The list continues: 
. Norway, Spain, Sweden - 
Even the Minister laughs; we have flushed him out- 
Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States. 
God! Those countries could sell this Government the town hall clock. How could the Government be so silly as to contemplate getting into such an organisation. I cannot understand the Government. The implications of the decision to join this Agency are just not clear cut at all. We on this side of the House just cannot understand how the Government could surrender sovereignty on the basis that it has to this International Energy Agency. The matter just has to be looked atin terms of where our national interest lies. We are pulling our weight in terms of energy. We are not dogs in the manger when it comes to cooperation with other countries in relation to energy. We are exporting to Japan a million tonnes of liquid petroleum gas a year from Bass Strait. We will be exporting 6½ trillion cubic feet of liquid natural gas. These are prime energy fuels. I am not even talking about steaming coal; these are prime hydrocarbons. Steaming coal and coking coal are energy commodities. We are doing more than we could reasonably be expected to do in terms of energy exports, without getting caught up in this little lot. 
Let us look at what our joining this Agency would mean to us in terms of the national interest. We have a self-sufficiency in indigenous petroleum of 70 per cent. By the time further exploration takes place in the Gippsland Basin and other parts of the country we will be likely to maintain that level of self-sufficiency for a period longer than that which is currently expected. In addition to that, through a decent conservtion program, we could probably lower demand for various hydrocarbons in Australia if we implement a sensible energy policy. So, for the next six or seven years at least, we do not need to surrender any sovereignty in order to join the IEA because we are doing very nicely. The only argument that we have concerns heavy Middle East crudes, but our not joining this organisation would not preclude us from getting Middle East crudes. If we operate sensibly our own energy policy we will cut down our requirements of Middle East crude. Why would it be in 
Australia's interests to join this International Energy Agency at a time when we estimate that we will be 70 per cent self-sufficient for most of the 1980s. By the time we throw a few more scraps into the ring, our self-sufficiency will increase. What the marginal cost of those barrels will be we do not know at this stage, but they will be available to us. At least we can say that between now and 1989- nine or 10 years out- there is no need for us to surrender our sovereignty to join the International Energy Agency. 
I think my predecessor, the former Labor Minister for Minerals and Energy, the late  Mr R.  F. X. Connor, called the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development the Rich Countries Share The Energy Club. We have been suckered into joining this organisation by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and by the Minister for National Development on the basis of some lofty talk about the exchange of information. But let us get down to the kernel of the matter. The terms of the agreement to which other countries have acceded are set out in the Minister's statement. It reads as follows: 
The Agreement . . . encompasses: 
The Emergency Oil Sharing System- EOSS- involving concerted action to allocate oil equitably between member countries - 
If we have a lot of oil and the other countries do not, we know what 'equitably' means. It means that we lose some. The terms of the agreement continue: 
. through active co-operation between member governments and the major oil companies . . . 
Honourable members know what chance we would have in that little lot- 
. in the event of a significant supply interruption; 
The third provision of the agreement states: 
The introduction of demand restraints in an emergency; 
In other words they will put restraints upon our demand situation. While New Zealanders are leaving their cars at home one day a week and we do not have to do so, it is possible under these arrangements that this Government will involve this country in similar arrangements. 
I am told that voting rights on the International Energy Agency are on the basis of one's intake of petroleum. Given the fact that our intake of petroleum is immeasurably less that that of most of the countries mentioned in the Minister's statement- certainly the United States, the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Canada and Austria- we would be in the position of being very low down on the list. What real strength do we have in the International Energy Agency in regard to sheer voting rights? I put it to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that we would have very little strength. 
We are really locked into this organisation, without being given any explanation of how we are to get out of it. It is all being done on the basis that we should be doing the right thing by the northern hemisphere. When have the countries in the northern hemisphere ever done the right thing by us? I would not mind if, when we went to the European Economic Community, we got a decent deal out of it. Since 1970 its members have been absolute dogs in the manger. They closed the door in our face when Britain entered the EEC. Whenever we approach them in connection with beef, cheese or anything else, they do it again, and they relish being given the opportunity to do it. The beef quotas and trading policies of the United States are designed to suit it. If it is short of beef it lets us sell some more. Unless we offer all the palliatives and panaceas in the world, we cannot sell an extra ton if it is not short of beef. The United States plays the game hard. 
Why should we be in the energy club? Why should we be putting our reserves into the ring? What have these countries ever done for us? They have done nothing. The only country that does very much for us is Japan. It is our major trading partner. I would not mind entering into some arrangements with the Japanese because at least they would pull their weight. Why should we enter into an agreement with the United States? The trouble is that our Prime Minister goes abroad and we cannot trust him out of our sight. We cannot trust the Prime Minister when he is wandering around the United States. He would fall for the thimble and pea trick. The result is that on his return he introduces this statement. Ostensibly the statement is that of the Minister for National Development but, of course, he is only the Prime Minister's Little  Sir Echo  in this matter. The Prime Minister runs all of the ministries in this Government. The Ministers form only the committee of management of the portfolios. If the going gets tough, in goes the interdepartmental committee as happened on this occasion. We on this side of the House think that this is a damned foolish policy, to say the least. 
Let us return to some other things. The Minister also talked about having his own conservation program and under the International Energy Agency arrangements having cuts of 5 per cent in Australian consumption. Well, was it not about time? This Government has been in office for three years. Why is it that it did not have a conservation program in place to enable it to cut that consumption by 5 per cent before it had to join the International Energy Agency? 
That is right. You would not want to buy a new Holden, the way this Government operates. The question is: Why do we have to be in the IEA before there is this 5 per cent cut? If we look at the Government's conservation program, we find that there are no hard consumption standards for new motor vehicles. Do people think that the Government is going to say to General Motors and to Ford: 'We demand  21  miles per gallon from your fleet by the middle 1980s', in the same way in which the United States Congress told all United States manufacturers to cut consumption standards of 14 miles per gallon to 27 miles per gallon in 10 years? We are not doing any of that sort of stuff. We are going to talk about a publicity campaign on conservation! I am not saying that such a campaign is not without merit, but it is only the tip of the iceberg. It is just one of the easy things to do in terms of energy pricing. 
The other conservation policy question is that of import parity. Everyone understands that the Australian public will not stop buying petrol because it is $1.14 a gallon. It is a commodity they need. They will have to pay the price. In demand terms, this commodity is inelastic and the public just must pay the price. So in terms of conservation, the effect of" that price rise will be minimal. The Government has done little about conservation in this country. We now find that we have to have a cut of 5 per cent in consumption because we are in the International Energy Agency. All I can say is that this is a very cavalier approach to policy-making by the Fraser Government. Let me just repeat that I was told authoritatively that the Minister's statement today was constructed by an interdepartmental committee, so what can we expect? It does not even have ministerial scrutiny. 
There is the mouth from the south trying to get into the act again. There are some other little things - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bradfield)  adjourned. 
I ask the Minister for National Development a question. Does the Government adhere to the procedure outlined by the Minister in his Press statements of 4 July and 29 December 1978 for the calculation of the import parity price for indigenous crude oil? If so, will the 1 April and 1 July 1979 Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries increases announced last December at the Abu Dhabi meeting be established by the Government as the official import parity price on 1 July for the purposes of fixing the price of indigenous crude? Will any other pre- 1 July OPEC increases- I emphasise this- also be included in the official Australian price such as any official price increase which may be announced following the OPEC meeting next Monday, 26 March? 
I oppose the motion. I do so because I believe that the motion has little to do with the general issue of abortion but much to do with the matter of funding. The motion moved by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  is punitive and piecemeal. It fails on both counts. It is punitive because it seeks to limit funds, believing that this alone is sufficient to deter abortion. It is piecemeal in that it is selective in its application. It does not deal with funds made available by the 
Commonwealth and the States through the public hospital system. It is a case of selective indignation. I do not approve of abortion for contraceptive or convenience reasons. In fact, there are very few grounds on which I would approve of abortions taking place. I do not believe that governments in Australia should approve of convenience abortions. The imprimatur of State approval should not be given to such a practice. 
Proponents of the motion argue that the payment of medical benefits for abortion has the Commonwealth condoning in a de facto way the practice of convenience or contraceptive abortion. This issue troubles me also. However, I feel that that can be the case only if free abortion is allowed under the law of the States. But it is not. It cannot be presumed that all abortions outside the criteria of the Lusher proposal are for convenience or contraceptive reasons. Whilst it may be true that the Menhennitt and Levine rulings are based on poor legal grounds, who can say that the Lusher criteria would in fact be better law? They completely exclude any mental health consideration, believing that health is to do only with the physical pathological condition. The mental health area is, I feel, the area of greatest abuse. Because in some cases it is legitimate, it remains the most difficult to tighten. Distinguishing between acceptable and unacceptable abortion remains purely subjective, especially in respect of mental health. 
On any of the criteria mentioned in the motion moved by the honourable member for Hume or the amendment moved by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  there is the requirement of certification by a doctor. In respect of any such certification there must be a right of challenge. The right of challenge to a doctor's certification will involve criminal-type proceedings before a court to determine whether a medical benefit should be paid. It is obvious that if the question of the legality of abortion is to be resolved it should be determined by the merits of the issue and not on the peripheral matter of funding. Legislation would be difficult to draft and enact. This debate is but an expression of opinion to the Government. If either the Lusher or the Cadman proposal is carried I would be most surprised if the Government did anything at all to give legislative effect to such an expression by the House. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  as good as admitted earlier tonight in his contribution to the debate that the Government will do little about the problem.  His  solution, in the event of the Lusher or Cadman proposals being accepted, will be to remove item 6469 from the medical benefits schedule. That item relates to the following: 
Evacuation of the gravid uterus by curettage or suction curettage not covered by items 6460/6464 from the medical benefits schedule and to leave doctors and patients to a benefit under 6460 which is a curette of uterus, with or without dilation including curettage or incomplete miscarriage. 
The difference in cost to a patient between the two is $28. An abortion can just as easily be effected under item 6460 with item 6469 removed. I see the issue here as being primarily one of funding. It is more about money than morality. The responsibility rests with those opposed to free abortions- that includes me- to have the States enact new statutes dealing with abortions or to test the Menhennitt and Levine rulings in the Supreme Courts of the various States to establish in good law the rights of the foetus. Then and only then will any definitive view of what is legal be determined. Thus, Parliament can then decide which medical services should be funded and which, if any, should be at private cost. 
It is for those reasons that I believe that the amendment moved by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  is more appropriate at this stage than the motion moved by the honourable member for Hume or, for that matter, the amendment moved by the honourable member for Mitchell or other honourable members. Apparently the honourable member for Hume sees no moral distinction between a woman having an abortion as a privately insured person and a woman having an abortion as a standard ward patient in a public hospital. This neglect to the public ward abortion alone destroys the credibility of the Lusher proposal. The honourable member for Hume argued that there is no nexus between State legality and the obligation of the Commonwealth to pay benefits. What nexus does he see between privately insured abortion and publicly funded abortion? Apparently he sees no nexus. 
No mention was made by the honourable member for Hume of the funding of expectant mothers during pregnancy and the financing of a mother and child after birth. There is no incentive for a doubting mother to maintain her pregnancy in the calculations of the honourable member for Hume.  His  approach is to penalise them- to make them pay and to give them nothing if they keep their babies. What a selective, unworthy approach that is. Removing a subsidy of some $50-odd will not stop the abortion practice. Abortion is an attitude problem and those with a moral objection to it need to do more to persuade women away from it. 
Yesterday it was pointed out that there has not been one conviction for abortion in Australia in the last 20 years. Courts are not likely to be locking women up because they have aborted their children. The penal approach is very limited, probably useless. What is needed is an educative, supportive approach to encourage women away from this tragic option. 
The Government worked a con trick on mothers by removing the breadwinner's dependent deduction and lumping it together with the child endowment. Child endowment has rarely been increased. As a component of the family allowance it is not indexed and is pathetically inadequate. The Government has taken no positive steps to reduce the incidence of abortion. It has done nothing that represents any additional costs to itself to support and encourage family growth and cohesion. The Government leaves it to its back benchers to prick the public consciousness, albeit in a clumsy, inappropriate way. Regrettably, Australia is losing the impulse for social advance. Instead of maintaining the family it is killing it off to maintain living standards and what is deemed to be a desirable lifestyle. Abortion threatens the nation through the destruction of its children. Many people who have no moral yardstick look to the law for guidance. The stand of the law must be on the sanctity of human life. It is a standard that has to be reestablished in Australia. The law can and should make the correct declaration without resorting to an approach which is either monetary or purely penal. 
I ask the Minister for National Development a question relating to the previous question. The Minister will recall telling the Parliament on 22 February in answer to the honourable member for Bradfield: 
I met executives of all the oil companies in Australia a week or so ago and they agreed with the Government's assessment that there is no immediate concern about Australian supplies of crude oil or products. I think that is the outlook for about the next six months. 
In the light of the release of the Caltex telex which outlines the Government's request to the oil companies to play down the seriousness of Australia's oil supplies, did the Minister not purposely mislead Parliament? 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Blaxland moving: 
That this House calls for the resignation of the Minister for National Development for wilfully misleading the House during Question Time by dismissing as 'bunkum' a newspaper report on his dealings with oil companies which, it is now claimed, had been submitted to him before publication and he then described as 'a good story'. 
The Opposition moves this motion because of another outrageous breach of parliamentary propriety and accountability by a corrupt, lying Ministry, which is without honour and without pride. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 
Only the Fraser Government could produce a dishonourable Minister like the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman). 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member for Blaxland will restrain himself. The question is: 'That the honourable member be not further heard '. 
Question put. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, before I move this censure motion, I make the point that the Opposition is intent upon moving the second proposition. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  advised the Table Office that he would suspend Standing Orders to enable the first proposition to be dealt with. As far as we are concerned, this is a cognate debate, but I will move formally the first motion. I move: 
That this House censures the Minister for National Development for: 
1 ) his deliberate and calculated attempt to mislead this House and the Australian people as to the gravity of the oil crisis currently facing Australia, 
) his attempt to obtain $ 1 7m from the Treasury to fund a publicity campaign to now mislead the public as to the gravity of the petroleum situation, and 
3 ) his failure to evolve anything approaching a comprehensive energy policy for Australia. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I had moved another motion which was: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Blaxland from moving - 
That this House calls for the resignation of the Minister for National Development for wilfully misleading the House during Question Time by dismissing as 'bunkum' a newspaper report on his dealings with oU companies which, it is now claimed, had been submitted to him before publication and he then described as 'a good story'. 
We on this side of the House believe that this whole matter should be aired and we are appalled by the fact that the Government did not have the gumption to bring on the debate earlier in the day. In subsequent discussions that I have had with the Minister tonight he alleged that Government Business precluded such a debate. That is sheer nonsense as every observer and every honourable member of this Parliament knows. The Government gagged the debate. It thought that it could brazen its way out of it. It thought that it would brave face the whole issue and finally talk its way out of it by devious sentences, plays on words, subterfuge and the like. 
What brought us to the second proposition was the knowledge that the journalist who wrote the story, Judith Hoare from the  Australian Financial Review,  was told by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  when she checked her story with him, that her story was a good story. The Minister now denies that she so checked the story. He said- and I will quote from his answer to a question in the House of Representatives- 'As to the report in this morning's  Australian Financial Review,  let me say this about that report . . .' Now, the words 'about that report' are scratched out of the greens, but it is in the original script- 'about that report'. 'In short, it is bunkum. There is no hush up; there is no cover tip'. He then said to  Mr Porter  - 
I ask the Minister for National Development: In view of the fact that yesterday he did not deny the story line in the  Australian Financial Review  report, and in the light of the subsequent evidence that crude oil imports to Australia have suffered a 10 per cent cutback, will he say why he failed to inform Parliament yesterday about the 10 per cent cut in oil imports to Australia revealed in today's Press? What undertakings has he sought from and given to the oil companies, especially Caltex, concerning cutbacks? 
I desire again to ask a question of the Minister for National Development. Has his attention been drawn to reports that, following yesterday's 9.1 per cent oil price rise by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, the cost of petrol to the Australian motorist could rise by more than 3c a litre or 1 3c a gallon? Will the OPEC price rise be passed on by the Government on 1 July in its price for locally produced crude oil? If so, will this mean that the Australian motorist will be up for at least an extra $1 for a tank of petrol? Will 30c of this extra dollar pay for imports, 40c go to the Government coffers and 30c go to extra profits for producers of Australian oil? Finally, will this mean that the oil producers will gain an extra $50m, and the Government more than $60m, at the expense of the Australian motorist? 
-The Opposition would have liked more notice of the statement just delivered by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman).  It is a comprehensive statement. It is true that the Government gave the necessary notice of its presentation, but it is the kind of statement in relation to which more notice could have been given, thereby permitting us to consider at greater length the Government's proposition. We certainly hope that the motion 'That the House take note of the paper' is debated in the not too distant future so that honourable members who are interested in water resource management issues will be given a chance to speak on this subject. Such a debate should not be limited to such an extent that only one  speaker  from each side of the House takes part in it. 
The Government has outlined the recommendations made by the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources in its report on the Commonwealth's Role in Water Matters. I take this opportunity to say that the Opposition believes that the report from the Senate Standing Committee was a very good one, and that it was very competently put together. It is evidence of the fact that specialised parliamentary committees can play a very useful role in the identification of problems, particularly in the case of this issue, responsibility for which has been spread throughout the States. There is no clear delineation of responsibilities. It is a CommonwealthState matter. There is not even a clear departmental delineation of responsibilities. That is why it has been tucked away in the 'too hard' basket for so long. It has required the scrutiny of a parliamentary committee to try to drag the threads together. 
The Minister's statement discusses at some length the Government's attitude to the recommendations of the Committee. The most specific conclusion that one can draw from the Senate Standing Committee's report is that the Commonwealth Government had developed a role in water resource matters but that it did so in the absence of a clear statement of policy objectives. In other words, the Government had, over the years, been committed to spending money on water resource management projects but there was no rhyme or reason in the allocation of that money. It was a case of funds being allocated in the absence of a policy; there was no policy direction. The Senate Standing Committee points out that fact. The Committee recommended that the Government make a clear statement of its policy objectives. The policy objectives, as the Minister sees them, were outlined in the statement which he has just completed reading. I put it to the House that those objectives remain very vague. He says things such as this: 
The main policy thrusts appropriate to the Commonwealth for this purpose are to ensure, as far as practicable, that water resource difficulties do not constrain national development; 
That is a laudable enough objective, but what does it really mean? The statement continues:  minimise losses and disruption caused by floods; 
Nobody wants to be disrupted by floods, and everyone would seek to minimise losses. Again, there is nothing hard about such a proposition. The statement continues:  encourage management practices which reverse trends in the deterioration of water quality and associated land resources; 
All these objectives seem laudable enough, but they do not get down to a strong statement of policy. They are really just vague objectives, and nothing more than that. There is a complete lack of policy, which is characteristic of the Fraser Government and, in fact, of conservative governments in this country when dealing with matters such as water resource management, which is a Commonwealth-State issue, which have to be resolved and in relation to which no clear responsibility resides with one department. There has been a lack of positive government policies. 
The Minister really only talks about consultation with the States. This Minister is a great talker. He is always talking abot consultation with the States. He is always consulting people. During Question Time he talks about how he has told the States about shortfalls in energy. It might be fine to tell people about things, but what does he intend to do about things? That is what we would like to know. We would like a little bit of action rather than talk. At least we are encouraged by the fact that the Government has now seen fit to bring the matter of water policy under one department, namely, the Department of National Development. That is a step in the right direction, and I acknowledge that. The Minister's statement does not mention the allocation of additional funds for water resource management. No increase in funds for State water projects was announced. One would have thought that with the unveiling of such a policy document there would have been an indication of a renewed Commonwealth financial effort towards achieving the objective of water resource management. 
In the Budget of 1975-76, which was presented in the last year of office of the Labor Government, a total of $24. 57m was made available for water resource projects- $ 19.48m for specific projects, and $5.09m for surface water measurement investigation. Even allowing for a modest increment to that first figure for inflation, in order to bring it into line with 1 979 prices, one would need to be thinking of somewhere in the order of $29m to $30m if it were to keep pace with the 1975-76 performance. What do we find? This year the allocation for water resource matters is $2 1.1m. In other words, since the Labor Government was in office the allocation has declined by about one-third, as far as I can glean from the Budget documents. A general decline in public services and in the commitment of funds to national development matters has been characteristic of the present Government. This characteristic again shows up in the fact that the Government's performance has been very poor in terms of funds being made available for water management matters in conjunction with the States. 
The report also mentions the problem of salinity, as well as the River Murray Waters Agreement and other matters. We all know that one of the major water problems in Australia is the salinity problem of the River Murray. The River Murray dumps 800,000 tonnes of salt into various parts of the countryside traversed by the River Murray system - 
-Into South Australia, as my very learned friend, the honourable member for Hawker, says. He has taken a keen interest in this matter. The River Murray Commission, which is more worried about the quantity of water and navigational issues, does not address itself to this question of salinity. We have heard nothing from the Fraser Government about the problems facing Adelaide, including the problems in relation to Adelaide's water supply, the quality of water for South Australia, and particularly the quality of water for the city of Adelaide and the cities along the Murray River. We have seen no comprehensive approach to these matters, and nothing was mentioned by the Minister about looking at the whole River Murray system the water basin of the River Murray. In the past there has tended to be a cursory attempt to look at the problems of the River Murray only in the immediate area of the main trunk of the river and not to look at the totality of it. The River Murray basin extends right into New South Wales and, if I am correct, into parts of Queensland so that the catchment area is quite wide. Yet nothing has been done about the River Murray. The salinity problem is quite acute. It seems to be completely overlooked by the Fraser Government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The level of conversation is too high. I ask honourable members to subdue their voices. The honourable member for Blaxland has a right to be heard in silence. The honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  will resume his seat if it is his intention to stay in the House. 
The Government seems to completely overlook the matter of salinity. Adelaide can really go to pot when it comes to this Government's interest in the salinity problem. That goes for all the River Murray towns. There has to be comprehensive national approach to the River Murray and its water basin or water system depending on how one expresses it. This statement really does not touch that situation. I must say that we on the Opposition side hope that at least the policy will translate into something more positive than what we have presently seen. I hope that the Government will see fit in the August Budget to increase the level of appropriations to restore at least the real value of appropriations made by the former Labor Government in the last year of its Budget so that we can play a useful and constructive role in water management issues. 
I leave the matter on this point. We will support any positive initiatives by the Government to do something sensible about water management issues. We believe that this ought to be a bipartisan matter. Water is an essential commodity for people reliant upon it in the various areas in Australia which are experiencing difficulties. I certainly hope that honourable members such as the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  and other honourable members on the Labor side and, I am sure, honourable members on the Government side who seriously take an interest in water management issues will be paid the courtesy of being given the opportunity to debate this matter. They deserve the right to put their views in the Parliament in a debate following this statement. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hodges)  adjourned. 
I would not mind if the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  was as generous in Tasmania as he is in the House of Representatives. Of course, he is an inside angel and an outside devil. When he is in Tasmania he will say literally anything to the Tasmanian newspapers. I do not mind having a little debate about what is good for Tasmania. He says that we should not be point scoring about what we think ought to happen in Tasmania compared with what he thinks ought to happen to Tasmania, but there is no such generosity on his part when he is amongst the members of the Tasmanian Press. We have to use this opportunity, and in fact any debate on Tasmania, to say where the Opposition stands on Tasmanian issues. 
I think that this legislation is an indication of how the Fraser Government has been contemptuous of Tasmanian interests. That is not to say that we disparage the Tasmanian Native Forestry Agreement Bill. We do not oppose the legislation. When one looks at the Bill, one finds that its purpose is to provide a relatively insignificant amount of money- only loans of up to $136,000 in each of the five years of the agreement. One could hardly be impressed with a total of $136,000 for the State. That will not go far in funding reafforestation projects. That is what the Bill is all about. It is not even as generous as the Softwood Forestry Agreements Bill which was introduced last year. Yet the honourable member for Franklin tells us that the Government is pulling its weight in Tasmania. Another aspect of the Bill is that it provides for a 20-year deferment of loan repayments, with the interest being capitalised at the end of the 20-year period. If my memory serves me correctly, the Softwood Forestry Agreements Bill provided for a complete interest deferral. So, in fact, there has been a regression in terms of the kinds of conditions applicable to loans in this legislation compared with those applicable under the original Bill. 
The honourable member for Franklin mentioned the Callaghan Committee report. I should have thought that the honourable member would have liked to keep that report quiet because it and the 10-point plan which was hatched up by  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Newman  following the release of the report are things of which the Government should be ashamed. I make the point that the Callaghan report recommended that funding for these kinds of reafforestation schemes be allocated not on a dollar for dollar basis, but on the basis of the current equivalent rating for financial aid to a State. In other words, relativity between States in terms of assistance from Canberra should be reflected in agreements such as this, and such assistance should not be on a dollar for dollar basis. The allocation of funds on a dollar for dollar basis does not really assess the capacity of the State to pay, whereas the general reimbursements do assess the State's position. That is why  Sir Bede  Callaghan 's recommendation should have been followed. It was not followed. In the case of Tasmania, funds should have been allocated on about a $2 for $ 1 basis instead of a $ 1 for $ 1 basis. Perhaps the honourable member for Franklin will take that on board as a demonstration of the fact that the Fraser Government really never does very much for Tasmania. Even if the Government gave $136,000, the honourable member would say: Well, it is not a loan; it is a grant'. But it is not a grant; it is only a loan. And the interest will be capitalised. So finally, over the period, the Government is not doing very much for Tasmania at all. 
In the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  he makes reference to  Sir Bede  Callaghan 's report on the structure of industry and the employment situation in Tasmania. Following the publication of that report, in November 1977 the Government put forward a 10-point plan, to which I referred earlier, to aid Tasmania. About 16 months has now elapsed since that 10-point plan was introduced rather hurriedly and in dubious circumstances. It is rather disturbing to see how little progress has been made by the Government in respect of that 10-point package. It should be remembered that this is not  Sir Bede  Callaghan 's package; it is the package of  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Newman.  It is disturbing because of the disadvantages suffered by Tasmania as a result of its island status. This island status has given rise to economic disadvantages which have inevitable social consequences. For instance, per capita income in Tasmania is 10 per cent below the national average. The per capita rate of cash benefit payment is higher than that of only one other State. The progressive erosion of the manufacturing industry base has resulted in a substantial loss of jobs, and the unemployment position in Tasmania is quite parlous. 
The honourable member for Franklin talked about the alleged foreboding of the  Deputy  Premier of Tasmania. Let me say that he is entitled- in fact it is his bounden duty- to say that Tasmania has special difficulties and to plead a case here in Canberra. Apparently the honourable member for Franklin believes that it is infra dig for the Tasmanian Government to say anything about these kinds of things. The sorts of problems faced by Tasmania cannot be dealt with by broad brush macro policies. Attention must be given to regional consequences of such policies, whether they be to do with monetary policy or with manufacturing adjustment policy and the like. In addition, there is a need to have policies which are designed specifically to favour a developing region- in other words, an assistance policy for regions. This is only one of the messages which recently came through clearly in the Crawford report, which recommended that 'location specific measures be adopted to deal with severe problems of economic change in regions within States'. How well has the Government performed in this area in respect of Tasmania? The honourable member for Franklin always talks about the freight equalisation scheme, but the freight equalisation investigation was established under the Whitlam Government and the scheme would have been introduced but for the fact that that Government was dismissed. All the other things which  Mr Fraser  went to Tasmania to open - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! I do not like interrupting the honourable member for Blaxland, but he has offended against the rules of the House on a couple of occasions. Members should be referred to by their proper parliamentary title. 
I should refer to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser), Mr Deputy Speaker.  The Prime Minister was in Tasmania a couple of weeks ago, I think, opening a Commonwealth project. I just cannot remember exactly which project it was. 
The Antarctic base. The Antarctic base again was begun by the former Government. I do not deprecate the fact that this Government has carried on with it; it is a great thing for Tasmania. I extend my congratulations to the Government for so doing. 
-It is good; I agree with that. All the same, one has to look at the performance of the Government in respect of Tasmania. Of the 10 points in the package for Tasmania, the Federal Government has backed right off in relation to the three of them. It is its plan and yet it has backed off in relation to three of the points. 
As for defence facilities, for instance, the Federal Government's view is that Tasmania is an area of low strategic priority. I believe that the Premier of Tasmania has a letter from the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  saying this very thing. Is it. not fatuous that the Government should develop a 10-point policy and then walk away from the first point as soon as there is an exchange of correspondence in regard to it? Quite clearly, there was an exchange of correspondence. The Minister for Defence said: 'Tasmania has a low strategic priority. There will be no further placement of defence personnel in Tasmania'. In addition, because of the distance from Tasmania of existing defence bases, the Government argues that it is not well suited for training purposes. Tasmania is situated a long way from existing facilities; so the Government says: 'That point is out. We are not going back to look at it'. On the one hand it says: 'This is our plan'; but, when one gets to the nitty-gritty of correspondence, it says: 'We cannot do these things because they are unsuitable'. So much for defence. Another aspect of the package dealt with ensuring that, to the fullest extent, the Federal Government would extend its Australianmade goods preference to Tasmania. Again, that is another point which has not seen the light of day since the 10-point plan was unveiled. Quite apart from the enormous administrative difficulties of implementing such a proposal, it is probably unconstitutional. 
Well, if it were unconstitutional may I ask the honourable member why the Liberal Party in the persons of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  proposed such a point if they believed it to be unconstitutional in the first place? Of course this was a 10-point plan unveiled in the middle of an election campaign. Of course, we understand. Their attitude is: 'Do not look at what we say after the election campaign, believe it only during the course of it'. The third point of the package which the Federal Government has failed to deliver concerns the relocation of the precision tool annexe at Launceston. The Tasmanian Government has been forced to relocate the annexe at its own expense. The Commonwealth Government walked away from that point. These examples are all part of the Government's 10-point plan. Of course the other points are still in a state of flux. The likelihood is that the Government will not even measure up to the promise about the afforestation plan because, as I said earlier, on a dollar for dollar basis- not on a proper proportional basis of assistance to Tasmania as happens with other Commonwealth assistance- the Commonwealth does not distinguish as to the needs of the State adequately. Again, the Bill provides only for loans of $136,000. If the Government said $ 1.36m maybe that would be a figure that the Tasmanian Government could look at with regard to afforestation and do something in a supportive and useful way. 
Better? An amount of $130,000 is better than nothing I suppose. But how paltry an amount it is. If things are all right in Tasmania, as the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  suggests, all I can say is that it must be as a result of the Labor Government in Tasmania. Certainly it is not anything the Commonwealth Government has done. It has done nothing for Tasmania. The few things that it carried on with were developed by the former Australian Labor Party Government and not by this Government. There is not one thing that I can remember and I ask any other honourable member who follows me in this debate to suggest one thing which the Fraser Government has pioneered, established and followed through in Tasmania. 
Mount Lyell happened to be an assistance problem because of a collapse in copper prices in the sinusoidal fluctuations of world commodity movements. It was not a specific plan; it was not a construction. Anyway, we supported the plan. I supported it before the 1977 elections. We have unhesitatingly said that Mount Lyell should be supported. Of course we were right. The copper price improved. There is now no operating loss and the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd is back on its feet again. So that is hardly an issue either. 
It does not matter where we look. For all of the blustering, noise and wind from the honourable members from Tasmania in the Parliament on the Government side, they have produced nothing. They seek to go back to Tasmania and to make big fellows of themselves in the Tasmanian Press but here in Canberra they just have not produced the goods. It befalls the lot of the Opposition to make this point and to say that the 10-point plan was a sham to begin with. It is turning out to be of little effect in Tasmania. The Tasmanian Government has been disturbed by the fact that the Federal Government has not honoured its promises in respect of the 10-point plan. With regard to other assistance measures there has been no advantage to that State. 
I therefore rise on this occasion to make those points. While we think that afforestation is an important project for Tasmania we are appalled by the fact that the level of assistance is so low and not a realistic appropriation at all. That should provoke the thoughts of Tasmanians on the points of just how interested the Fraser Government is in their lot and how the Government has neglected Tasmania as a developing region of the Commonwealth away from the mainland. This is apart from things which were implemented by the former Government. 
I ask the Minister for National Development a question. It refers to the publication today of a telex from Caltex Oil (Australia) Pty Ltd to his Department. Is it a fact that the telex that his Department received from Caltex stated that 'Caltex has abided by the undertakings to avoid public panic by playing down the problem in its public utterances ' on the supply and price of crude oil and petroleum products? Did the Government obtain this undertaking from Caltex? If so, will the Minister now acknowledge that he made a deal with the oil companies to play down the seriousness of the oil situation? If not, does he deny the statement made in the telex by Caltex? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, in the last week two events have taken place which have led the Opposition to propose the matter to which you have just referred the House as a matter of public importance. The first of those events was the arrangements made between Queensland Mines Ltd, the proprietary company which holds the leases for the Nabarlek uranium area, and the Shikoko Electric Power Co. Incorporated of Japan for the supply of 6,000 tonnes of yellow cake to that utility and for the balance of 10,000 tonnes to another Japanese power utility in the future, namely, the Kyusu Electric Power Co. Incorporated. The other event was the near catastrophic failure of the newly-installed thermal reactor at Harrisburg in Pennsylvania in the United States of America, where we have witnessed for the first time the prospect of the ultimate nuclear calamity and the possible melt-down of a reactor core. 
The Opposition believes that it is opportune now to say to the Government that the impending contracts for exports of yellow cake which will arise from negotiations by Queensland Mines and from the decision by the Government to send out private members of the Ranger consortium, Peko Mines Ltd and the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd, on their own marketing expedition and for the Government, as a member of the Ranger consortium, to go out on its own marketing expedition to find contracts in a market which is very thin and very poor indeed in terms of market demand for uranium, should not be agreed to by the Government until an attempt is made by the Government and other interested parties to ensure that, as we state in our matter of public importance, 'the grave risks associated with the nuclear industry have been resolved '. 
We on this side of the House are not going to take an hysterical point of view or to make the false accusation that government policy in this respect in any direct way was associated with the events in Harrisburg in the United States. Nevertheless, we must make the point that the Government, through its policy, is buttressing the course of nuclear power and the development of nuclear power by the supply of quite massive amounts of uranium potentially on to a very thin world market, thereby depressing the price of uranium and making it more available. The Government has abandoned all notion of sequential development. The Ranger mine will produce about 3,500 tonnes of uranium oxide per annum. The Queensland Mines operation will produce about 1,050 tonnes per annum and Yeelirrie, Pancontinental Mining Ltd and others are standing in the queue. On the basis of the Government's present performance, we could see an attempt being made to sell possibly 6,000 or 7,000 tonnes of annual production on the world market. This must have the effect of depressing prices and making nuclear power a more commercial option. 
Lest people think it is an extravagance on the Opposition's part to raise this matter as a matter of public importance, let me read again items 1 and 7 of the principal findings and recommendations contained in the first report of the 
Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry, which dealt with the export of Australian uranium. The first stated: 
The hazards of mining and milling uranium, if those activities are properly regulated and controlled, are not such as to justify a decision not to develop Australian uranium mines. 
The report went on to state, in item 7 of the principal findings and recommendations: 
Policy respecting Australian uranium exports, for the time being at least, should be based on a full recognition of the hazards, dangers and problems of and associated with the production of nuclear energy, and should therefore seek to limit or restrict expansion of that production. 
I stress that the recommendation was that policy should seek to limit the expansion of production of nuclear power. Another of those findings and recommendations stated, in relation to reactor safety: 
The hazards involved in the ordinary operations of nuclear power reactors, if those operations are properly regulated and controlled, are not such as to justify a decision not to mine and sell Australian uranium. 
The truth is that even a modern reactor, such as the one at Harrisburg, is not safe. One must ask whether the recommendations contained in the first Ranger report are not more poignant and more valid today than they were when they were presented. I think it is reasonable for the Opposition to say to the Government: 'Thus far and no further with uranium exports for the time being'. The whole case of the Government has centred on the matter of supply assurances. The Government says that we need to keep the promise of assured supplies at cheap prices to keep people away from the fast breeder option. The true position is this: The fast breeder option is under research at the moment in the United States, France and Japan. These countries will not turn away from fast breeder research, no matter how much uranium is available for supply. The dubious argument then tendered is that, if there are not supply assurances, the Western world's nuclear power utilities will move into using fast breeders and out of using thermal reactors. 
It is just wrong. One must look at how difficult it now is to site a normal thermal reactor and, in the light of what happened at Harrisburg, at how increasingly difficult that would become, given the fact that a fast breeder has an efficiency level of around 3 per cent and a thermal reactor an efficiency level of around 70 per cent. Therefore, the whole fast breeder reactor process would be much more complicated and sensitive and it is new technology. Thermal reactors are already 20-odd years old and we have not perfected them. Can honourable members imagine the difficulties involved in trying to site a fast breeder reactor in or near a community in any part of the Western world? It will not happen. Fast breeders will not be a part of the power programs of the Western world- certainly, I think, not within the lifetime of most members of this Parliament, if at all. 
That brings us to the question of where do we go with the thermal reactor. Every honourable member on this side of the House, and I would think, in the Parliament, would believe that it would be good for the world if the present nuclear industry operated more safely than it does now and if thermal reactors were far safer and more efficient than they are. Indeed, in the United States there has been a concentration on improving the efficiency of thermal reactors, but there has not been enough concentration on reactor safety. Reactor safety had died pretty well as an issue in the United States, where the waste disposal and the nuclear non-proliferation aspects were becoming prominent in the nuclear debate. Harrisburg opened up the whole debate on reactor safety once again. Perhaps the sad thing about Harrisburg was the fact that the reactor was commissioned in December because of some tax provision operating in the United States. Apparently the Nuclear Regulatory Commission pointed to some of the defects which subsequently brought us to this near catastrophic failure. Because of that consideration the reactor was prematurely commissioned and the results, of course, are now widely known. It gets around to the general question of management of the thermal reactor program. It is not a convincing management. 
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission in the United States is only four years old. Before that it was part of the American Atomic Energy Commission. Until 1975 there was no separate regulatory arm of the nuclear authority in the United States. The NRC, as it is called, is really only just getting its act together now in terms of management of the nuclear power program of the United States and reactor safety. Of course, it will have to get its act together a lot faster and a lot more effectively than it has done in the past. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  said in a sensible statement yesterday that Australia itself should have a separate nuclear regulatory authority as distinct from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. We on this side of the House have said that in various debates. We make the point again. Such an arrangement is long overdue. Because of the essential conflict of interests the Government should split the Atomic Energy Commission to establish this regulatory body in this country. But generally we must do more about the operation of thermal reactors and make them safer. We cannot do that if we just allow the wholesale export of Australian uranium onto the world market at low prices to buttress the growth of nuclear power. 
I think what will happen as a result of Harrisburg is that the delays in licensing procedures in the United States will be put back and the number of United States reactors which will be commissioned in the future will be infinitesimal compared with even the low projections which currently have been agreed upon. As well as that, there will be pressures in some other countries. Admittedly, the French, the Japanese and probably to a lesser extent the Germans, will probably go their wilful way with nuclear power for all other kinds of considerations which are prominent in their countries. Fortunately, we do not have a nuclear power station to worry about. But this would not be the position if we left it to the policies of  Sir Charles  Court. We heard at Question Time today that Australia, apparently with the agreement of the Prime Minister, would have a nuclear power reactor in Western Australia in the very near future. How foolish would it be to inflict upon this country the whole problem of nuclear waste disposal and reactor safety in a State which has a total electricity grid of about 1,200 megawatts. That State wants to feed an extra 1,000 megawatts from one power reactor into the electricity grid thereby doubling the size of the grid. Of course, such a proposal makes economic nonsense. It is even more economic nonsense when we consider the amount of steaming coal the steaming coal industry is exporting to Europe to run the fossil fuel power stations of Europe. 
Is it suggested that we should bypass the option of sending steaming coal around the Australian coast to Perth, if in fact the Collie coal reserves in Western Australia are inadequate for power generation purposes? What a nonsense proposal a nuclear power plant in Western Australia would be. The only thing I have to say about such a proposition is this: Let it be said and understood widely that if my party comes to power in Australia it will never permit  Sir Charles  Court to build a nuclear power station in Western Australia. It would be a shame upon the present Federal Government, despite what the Prime Minister said this afternoon at Question Time, if it allowed this to happen. So I think  Sir 
Charles Court will be long gone from politics before such a thing is contemplated seriously in Western Australia. 
We have to do more about the whole question of reactor safety. I think the Rasmussen report has now been very much discounted. Rasmussen said in his report that the prospect of a core melt down was one chance - 
The honourable member should just listen for a while- if he does he might learn something. Rasmussen said that there was one chance in 20,000 per reactor per year for a melt down and a one in one billion per reactor per year chance of a breach of the containment bell. The Three Mile Island episode really puts the Rasmussen report into wraps. 
I just want to deal briefly with some other matters in the couple of minutes I have left. We have not done enough as a nation about the question of waste disposal or nuclear non-proliferation. International fuel cycle evaluation- that is, INFCE- is essentially a well-intentioned gabfest, but little else will come from it. In respect of nuclear waste disposal, Professor Ted Ringwood of the Australian National University has dispensed quite thoroughly with the question of leaching of vitrified glass. He has demonstrated that devitrification occurs at 300 atmospheres at 350 degrees centigrade in a period of 24 hours. I must commend him on taking a genuine interest as an earth scientist in trying to find a material for waste disposal. 
There is a heavy requirement upon Australia to do something about making the present nuclear power industry safer in respect of waste disposal, in respect of non-proliferation and, as far as we can, in respect of reactor safety. It would ill become us as a nation to take the cynical view that one can wave uranium goodbye at the wharf, take the money and leave the problem in the hands of customer countries when we know that they cannot adequately manage the material, that they cannot dispose of the byproduct and that they themselves are not in a position safely to operate the reactors. Australia should desist from the commitment of Australian uranium to the international fuel cycle until such time as the reactor safety issue is resolved to the point where there is agreement about the safety factors, until the waste disposal issue has been conquered and a proven disposal system is established for the isolation of long-term transuranic elements and actinides from the atmosphere and until we have devised a system of international accords that mean something in respect of nuclear non-proliferation. 
It would be a tragedy if the world were to be pushed into the continuing premature development of a large scale nuclear industry, to find in a few years time that everyone had a nuclear weapons option, that everyone had a thermal or fast breeder reactor and that we helped by selling and buttressing the nuclear industry with cheap uranium from this country. A little bit of responsibility would go a long way in this otherwise fairly irresponsible world. The Government should do the honourable thing and stop exports until these problems are resolved. It should not just be at the whim and caprice of the uranium mining industry in the Northern Territory and elsewhere in this country which wants to maximise revenues. 
-The statement by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  was read as quickly as it was written. That became obvious on a reading of the document because on page 14 it states: 
Yesterday Alcoa of Australia Ltd announced plans to proceed with a $350m aluminium smelter project . . . 
That means that at least every page from 14 to 36 was written today. So much for the thought, time and consistency which has gone into the Minister's statement. This is not the promised Green Paper that we have heard so much about. This is an embarrassed response to Labor's Green Paper which was released last Monday week. The statement is the work of a lazy Minister. Any reading of the statement indicates clearly that the whole endeavour is a cut and paste job, a stringing together of all the Press statements and speeches that the Minister has made in the past year. The statement should be dubbed '101 unreported Press statements' because that is about all it is; it is just a sham. 
Let us contrast it with the paper of the Labor Opposition which was released a week ago and for which there have been 200 individual requests. Can honourable members imagine 200 individual requests from departments, universities, business and interested academics for this piece of political jargon? There is no way in this world. Even the sentences in it are identical to those in the Press statements. Pages of it are straight lifts from previous speeches. We all saw the little notation in the Clancy column in the  National Times  on the weekend which stated that the Minister had the whips on his departmental officers to get something out to save the Government's face because it had been creamed on energy policy. It has been in office for three years and done nothing about it. The Minister has been in this office for 12 months and we have seen not a line of sensible, integrated or coordinated policy; just a mish-mash of individual statements. It takes the Labor Opposition, without the bureaucracy and without a great staff of people, to produce a closely argued and rational energy paper for Australia which looks at the options, solutions and all the other subject matters involved. 
The Minister's statement is just a motherhood statement in many places. He talks about such things as the need to increase our energy independence- things which are just trite expressions and come very easily. Let us look at the contrast in the Labor paper. The world oil situation in the context of Australia; Australia's broad energy position; the changing usage patterns in Australian energy; the liquid fuel problem; exploration; the distinctions between old oil and new oil; windfall gains and tax treatments of existing low cost fields; fuel substitution; conservation; direct policy initiatives for conservation; what other countries are doing; natural gas; what we have and what we will need; gas prices and pricing; gas usage; gas exports; pipelines; liquid petroleum gas and all the issues surrounding it; exports; domestic; transport substitution; methanol from gas; gas to petrol; ethanol- all these subjects were in the Labor paper. What do we get from the Government? We get a tired apologia for an inactive Minister, a man who just does not know what he is doing. That just becomes clear. There is no conservation policy; no mention of direct standards. 
The Government now has motor vehicle plans up for grabs. There is a new motor vehicle plant coming along. New cars are being produced. But there are no requirements, in legislative form, on these companies to meet certain fuel requirements. The United States vehicle fleet will average 27&amp; miles per gallon by 1985, having come from 1 3V4 miles per gallon in the early 1 970s. Yet we have heard none of these direct standards. All we get is the dubious conservation effect of higher and higher petrol prices. The whole policy is just slug the hell out of the motorist who is continuing to be ripped off for tax purposes. This is supposed to be a low tax government, yet the Minister admits in his statement that by way of the crude oil levy the Government takes $ 1,300m from the Australian motorist in one year and transfers it to Commonwealth revenue. Then he said 'If we do not get the $ 1,300m there would be higher taxes '. What does he think a tax on oil or a tax on petrol is, if it is not a tax? 
Of course, then we get this grubby political argument about how bad the situation was under Labor and how our policies did nothing. Who introduced parity pricing for new discoveries? In the Labor Party policy delivered by Prime Minister Whitiam in September 1975 the description of new oil is oil coming from fields found after September 1975- not when the honourable member for Bass was the Minister or when the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  came to power. It is no wonder that when Labor was unceremoniously dumped from office in November 1975 the policy had not had a chance to work- it was only a month old. How can this Government reasonably claim that it was its policy? 
The Minister said nothing about the 50 per cent parity for old oil and the fact that the percentage of import parity for producers in Australia will go from 10 per cent to 20 per cent to 35 per cent to 50 per cent by 1980. The Minister said in his statement that from 1980 onwards the Government will review the policy. We want to know now what the Government is going to give the oil companies after 1980 and whether we are going to have a resource tax to give the public a fair share of the massive transfer of wealth to the companies. But again the statement contains no news. This statement is characterised by the fact that there is not an item of news in it. 
The Minister claims to have found an additional 600 million to 700 million barrels. He is quite plain about this in the statementunashamed in fact. I will just read the direct quotation to put him straight on the record. He said: 
In short, our pricing policy has already led to an increase in reserves of some 600-700 million barrels . . . 
I know the oil industry as well as anyone in this House and I have never heard from anywhere of 600 million or 700 million barrels; and neither has the Minister. It is another piece of fantasy. He went on to waffle about self-sufficiency. How about this for a gem of a statement? On page 9 he said: 
Of course, self-sufficiency will be even further enhanced, if, as we hope, additional major oil discoveries are made. 
Well, what a statement- self-sufficiency will be enhanced if they find more oil! What a great statement! What news there is in that! This is a great little paper! 
Then we get the sleight of hand on energy research and development. The Minister said that $ 15m is to be spent on energy research and development and he listed all the projects. But from the way the statement is put together it looks as though that $15m is for this year. In fact it is $ 1 5m over three years- $5m a year. It is $5m out of $ 1,300m. The Government is putting $5m a year back into energy research and development out of the $ 1,300m it rips from the motorist's pocket every year. That is a disgrace; it is a scandal. Then he had the hide to say: 'We do not have to match the per capita expenditure levels of other countries'. What an outrageous proposition this is. Of course, we are self-sufficient in coal. We are in a very parlous position with oil. At the moment we have 10 years supply at best, but this Minister is on the record as having said we do not have to match the per capital expenditure levels on research and development of energy in other countries'. He said that because his conscience was pricked by the per capita exposition on energy in the Labor Green Paper of last Monday. 
Let me just read to the House what other countries are spending. We are spending $US2.30 per head on energy research and development. Germany is spending $US9.70; the United States SUS9.20; Belgium $US8.90; the Netherlands SUS7.10 and Sweden SUS7.10. Our spending is down to SUS2.30, a quarter to a third of what is coming out of these other countries. Yet the Minister said that we can alford to sit back and relax in terms of energy policy. This country is a large continent with cities spaced at great intervals and relying on motor vehicles. The design of our cities relies on motor vehicles. Our cities have been built around the quarter acre blocks and distant suburbs. People need motor vehicles. They need fuel for motor vehicles. They need liquid fuels. We heard nothing about substitutes. The Minister put in some more grubby arguments about liquid petroleum gas and what he has done for it and then said that I unashamedly plagiarised his statements on LPG. The statement on LPG was in the Labor Federal policy four years ago in 1975. 1 rewrote it into the Perth policy two years ago. That is a matter of public record. These are in printed documents. 
The Government has done nothing about research and development. It is doing nothing about substitution. In fact, its whole policy is a disgraceful apologia for laziness and demonstrates the Minister's inattention to his portfolio. Let me nail another lie. I refer to the often told lie that oil exploration under Labor came to a halt. It is often heard, but what is the record? I have here the Minister's answer to questions placed on notice by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  I will put them on the record again. In 1973 under Labor 69 exploration wells were drilled in Australia. Last year, under the present Government 52 wells were drilled. In 1974, 54 wells were drilled. In 1975 23 wells were drilled. In the first year of the Liberal-National Country Party Government in 1976, 2 1 wells were drilled. In 1977, there were 21 wells drilled. That is two less than the last year of Labor and 40 less than the first year of Labor. In 1978 52 wells were drilled, which is not even up to the 1 974 figure achieved by Labor. Yet the Minister has the hide to say that exploration died under Labor. Admittedly, there was a downturn, but why was there a downturn under Labor? It was because the Liberal-Country Party obstructed the passage of the seas and submerged lands legislation in the Senate for nine months. The then Opposition's party colleagues, the State Premier of Western Australia and the Premier of Victoria, then took it to the High Court of Australia where they were defeated. That two year delay in determining the sovereignty question meant that no successful exploration company would want to put millions of dollars into holes in the seabed off the West Australian or Victorian coasts while they were in the position of not being sure whether the States or the Commonwealth had sovereignty. That was the reason for the downturn in 1975. 
Yet we find Government members boasting about their miserable 52 wells. Last year in Canada 3,000 exploration wells were drillednot 52 but 3,000. Government members are sitting back, smug and content, with their 52 wells. They ought to be ashamed of themselves. Government members have made the trivial and weak political point that there are 62 exploration permits now in force. Of course there are 62 exploration permits now in force, but what the Minister did not say was that permits for 34 of them were issued by the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975. Only the balance-22- have been issued by the present Government. How many have been issued in the last two years? I will tell the House- 22! We are told that this is the great, renewed exploration effort. It is a poor exploration effort- 52 wells- and what are we paying for it? I will tell honourable members what we are paying for it- $300m extra to producers this year, $700m extra to the producers next year and, when we get to 50 per cent of import parity, which in reality will be 56 per cent, the revenue of the producers will be disgracefully high. 
What is the public paying? The consumer must pay for the crude oil levy, the company taxes and excise on refined product which the companies include in the price of petrol and petroleum products. So, the consuming public of Australia is paying the Fraser Government a total of $2, 400m in one financial year on one commodity- petrol and petroleum products. What have we received for that payment? We have had 52 wells. What have we received for research and development? We have received only $500m. 
The Minister talks about substitutes. Yesterday the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  and I went to the Australian National University to look at Professor Kaneff's solar energy unit. We found that it probably embodies the most advanced solar technology in the Western World. What is the level of funding from the Government for that project? It is $100,000. The Government will not even back Australians in. It will not do anything for the people in its own country. The Government talks about being involved in research and development projects with the United States. Professor Kaneff told us that when GHH- the West German consortium and United States consortiumwas at the university, the representatives wanted to find out only the rudiments of the Australian system. There was no exchange of information. It is all one-way traffic. There is going to be no more of that stupidity because the University has had the sense to gain patents to the rights to their own exclusive process in the countries I have referred to. The Government has done nothing about research and development. 
On the off-shore question, the Government is still mucking around with Charlie Court and Premier Hamer. The Government is not game to take them on when the High Court of Australia has said that the Commonwealth has sovereignty over the off-shore seas from the low water mark to the edge of the continental shelf. The Government is still persisting with the fiction that the States should have some role in the issuing of exploration permits off-shore, when that role ought to reside exclusively here in the national capital under the Federal Government. Yet the Government is to bring in some weak piece of legislation to do with some designated authority. The legislation would not stand up to five minutes of testing in the High Court. 
When the Labor Party comes to power- let me make this quite plain- it will repeal the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act and dismantle the designated authority. It will administer the off-shore seas of Australia in the name of the Commonwealth of Australia. There will be no more mucking around with State Premiers or their crooked Ministers for Mines or plagiarising companies who have greased the paw of and looked after those people. There will be no more of that hanky-panky. The Labor Party will get down to some honest government when it comes to oil exploration. 
The Minister spoke about the North West Shelf. I have brought into the House the publication produced by the North West Shelf Joint Venture, a consortium of Australian and international companies, which is entitled  Energy from Australia.  It was produced for the benefit of the banking institutions seeking to obtain the finance for a $3, 000m project. There are statements made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony), Sir Charles  Court,  Mr Ron  Davies and myself. Where is the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)?  He has not rated a mention. I present to the House this glossy publication- the corporate structure of the North West Shelf. Let me read directly from the document what the North West Shelf consortium printed from my statement: 
In July 1977 the Labor Party approved the principle of gas exports and this is now a clear plank in the National Platform. When the Government finally announced its policy with respect to the North West Shelf Venture in August, I responded on behalf of the Opposition by positively supporting the project in a manner that I hoped would be conducive to its ongoing development and completion. 
I have backed the North West Shelf Venture and the gas export commitment that goes with it because of my firm belief that there is more undiscovered gas in Australia and because the progress of the venture would be the circuit breaker, the catalyst for a renewed, ambitious oil exploration effort throughout Australia. This approach is already paying dividends. 
That statement shows how irrelevant the North West Shelf consortium sees the policy of the Opposition in this matter! How dare the Government suggest that it is the brains behind this project. The Minister could not spell 'hydrocarbon' twelve months ago. Now he says that he knows all about it. That is a joke. 
I now deal with the question of natural gas. At page 25 of his statement- this outrageous piece of duplicity- the Minister says that the Government has increased gas supplies to Sydney and that 80,000 tonnes of fuel oil has been displaced. Let me quote his exact words: 
By the end of this year natural gas will have displaced 600,000 tonnes of fuel oil in the Sydney area. That represents a saving of about one half of the previous demand for 'inland fuel' . . . 
Earlier he said that the natural gas penetration: 
. in the Sydney area will now be 80 per cent higher in 1979 than . . . in 1978. 
The Minister has claimed credit for this development. Whom does the Minister think built the pipeline to get the gas to Sydney? Who belted hell out of Connor for building the Moomba to Sydney pipeline? The Government now has the temerity to claim the credit for that. The Minister is saying that gas is now being delivered. There is no wonder natural gas is displacing fuel oil. The Government has regulated gas prices and oil prices are at import parity. Is it any wonder that fuel oil is dear and gas is cheap. It is no wonder that gas penetration has increased by 80 per cent in 12 months. In his statement the Minister did not tell the House where all the fuel oil is. The companies cannot sell all the displaced fuel oil that is lying around. It is now being sold off-shore at bargain basement prices. We in Australia pay through the nose for it from the Middle East and sell it for a song off-shore. 
Where is the Government's refining policy for the catalytic cracking of the residual fuel oils back to light end products. When we look at the fifth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum on the refining policy we see that the Commonwealth Government has said that a refining policy is not a matter for the Commonwealth; it is a matter for the States. So, all the fuel oil being displaced by natural gas, which was once being discounted to keep gas out ofthe Sydney market, is in tanks and containment vessels all around Sydney and Melbourne. So much for what the Government has done in regard to a natural gas policy. It has done absolutely nothing! It is letting some of these authorities sell gas at prices which are so ridiculously foolish and profligate that it is a national disgrace. 
The Minister said that the Australian Labor Party had done nothing about liquid petroleum gas. Our policy on LPG has been in our platform for four years and it is not a fact that the Labor Green Paper isolated LPG as the available fuel which with known technology could take the place of petrol. The heat or the British thermal unit value of half the remaining recoverable reserves in Bass Strait will be exported as LPG. One million tonnes a year is to go to Japan. Instead it ought to be sold in Australia to fuel the cars of our cities and the bus fleets which pump all their diesel residue into the concrete and steel canyons of Melbourne and Sydney. The municipal bus fleets should all be powered on LPG. 
What has the Commonwealth done? It is converting a hundred Commonwealth vehicles out ofthe fleet of about 20,000. That is its LPG policy. Yet it has the hide to talk about what BHP Autogas is doing in conversions in the Melbourne suburbs. It would be doing a lot more if gas prices were sensibly adjusted to encourage domestic sales of naturally occurring LPG. Instead LPG is being sold to Japan and we are paying through the nose for crude oil from the Middle East. We are not only paying dearly for it; we are worrying about even getting it. The Minister has not come clean and told us how we really stand on energy supplies. 
The Minister made a further misrepresentation in the statement when he said that the Labor Government had never entered into international agreements on energy co-operation. Now, of course, he is talking about the International Energy Agreement which the Government foolishly entered into a couple of weeks ago. He never mentions the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics science agreement, the Indian science agreement, the Australia-Japan enrichment study, the Australian- Japan oil from coal investigation, or the Australia-United States oil from coal investigation, all entered into by the Labor Government, the Nippon-Australia Relations Agreement or any of the other scientific and cultural exchanges. This was another misrepresentation, another sleight of hand, as it were, from this disgraceful Minister. 
The statement is an absolute farce. It could not be considered an energy statement in any way whatsoever. It is not a Green Paper. It is a thing which has been hurriedly produced by the officers of the Minister's Department working under difficult circumstances and instructions from the Minister to get this statement out to save the Government's face.  President  Carter and  Dr Schlesinger  had an energy statement in the market six months after the Carter Administration took office. The Fraser Government has been in office for three and a half years and we still have not yet been given a copy of a Green Paper, a discussion paper, on energy, much less a White Paper on clear policy decisions. The Fraser Government has no co-ordinated, integrated energy policy. The Minister for National Development is just a gigolo for the oil companies. He is the Prime Minister's puppet. 
-I join the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in offering my condolences to Maureen Stewart and her family. I knew Frank Stewart from the time I became a member of the Australian Labor Party. He lived very near to me in the adjoining electorate, the former electorate of Lang, for most of his life. He was a person of great strength against whom one could measure oneself- as a yardstick of integrity, how people should behave and what principles they should have. It is very nice for those who were friendly with him to see the House pay him a tribute such as this and it was even nicer to see the tribute paid to him during his funeral. Whilst plenty of people say that the Church gives Catholics a great send-off, a funeral is not a theatrical performance. To those people who tended to write Frank Stewart off as a right winger, or as somebody who never made Prime Ministerial rank but was in the body of the Labor Party, I point out that there can be no greater tribute than a cathedral the size of St Mary's in Sydney to be filled with people who meant what they said about him. 
The composure of Maureen Stewart and her family was testimony to the fact that they believe what Frank Stewart believed; that is, that there is a life after death and that one's life on earth counts in terms of one's contribution to others and one's eternal reward. Frank believed that there would be an eternal reward. He died after Easter Sunday and those of us who shared some of his views like to think that he died in a state of grace and will live an eternal life with Christ. Our most fervent wish is that his family will join him in a life with Christ after death. 
He made a great contribution to the Labor Party, as many people on this side of the House have said. Perhaps on many occasions his family did not understand the tests of strength which were put on him, not often in great public speeches but in the corridors and in the Caucus- in those little ways in which a man can have a big influence on the way in which the Parliament works and upon the nation. It is pleasing to see that through the Labor Party a person with no special background can have such an enormous influence upon the Parliament as he had. 
He was a very rare man and I am very much in his debt personally. He was a source of much guidance to me. He generally commented on things that I said and the way in which I performed, and I was always grateful. But more than anything else, he was a great influence on the Labor Party. He tried to keep the Party relevant and to see that it maintained its principles. He is a great loss to our Party, to the Parliament and to the nation. I join the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition in offering Maureen Stewart and family my condolences. 
-Australia is the poorer for the continued squabbling within the Government, the coalition parties and the Federal branch of the Liberal Party of Australia over the question of mineral export guidelines. It has damaged Australia 's trading posture, its position in the world and its position in the eyes of major countries which trade with us. The squabbling is due directly to the mismanagement of the Minister for Trade and Resources and  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the disloyalty of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to that Minister. It is more in sorrow than in anger that I look at the Minister today. When I became a member of this chamber  10  years ago he showed promise as the boy wonder of the National Country Party of Australia and of the coalition parties, but now I see him as a Minister who cannot cope with his portfolio and who cannot win in Cabinet. He takes every opportunity to go overseas to avoid facing his responsibilities. He went overseas the day after he dropped the guidelines policy for mineral exports so that the fracas that followed would occur in his absence. 
Let us look at the history of this guidelines policy. This Minister made many attacks upon the export control policy of the Labor Party when it was in office. He said that it was a socialist policy invented by the Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor.  We now see two policies. The present Government kept the export control policy and superimposed on it a guidelines policy. So we have two policies currently operating. What is the force of either? The export control policy gives the Minister the right to veto contracts after they have been negotiated. The guidelines policy is a policy which permits intervention in the negotiation period and before a fait accompli is reached. It is this policy which the Minister introduced. It takes the Connor policy further in terms of government intervention. It not only adopts the whole spirit of the Labor policy but also goes further to intervention in the market place. 
Why were the guidelines established if the National Country Party and the Liberal Party were opposed to creeping socialism, as they called it in the Connor years? They were established because the Minister for Trade and Resources bungled the iron ore negotiations in 1978. He knew that the Nippon Steel Co. and other Japanese steel companies would climb right into the Australian coal producers during the coal negotiations in the latter part of 1 978. So the Minister injected the mineral guidelines policy to try to save face. He put it in a heavyhanded way; he imposed it in a threatening and overt way; and he did so in a buyer's market. He sought to impress the Australian Government's pricing policies on the course of mineral pricing in the middle of a buyer's market. Why? The answer simply is that the Government had let Japanese trade relationship deteriorate, so much so that there was virtually no trust between the Japanese steel mills and Australian producers. 
The Government and everyone in Australia knew that world steel production was turning down in the world depression and that Japanese steel interests were having difficulties taking commodities from Australia. Instead of looking at this situation and sewing up a compromise the Government allowed the whole system to deteriorate. These threatening guidelines were then introduced by the Government to try to get out of that situation. No doubt a cartel is operating in Japan. It would be foolish to suggest otherwise. I accept- in fact I tried to force the idea down the Minister's neck when we were in governmentthat the Japanese steel companies operate not in a process of fair competition but on a basis of competition between sellers and no competition between the buyers. Therefore a free market does not operate. Even with the guidelines, the Minister still bungled the coal negotiations. He is just one great big bungler. He just carries on making mistakes. 
Let us look at the situation concerning Kembla Coal and Coke Pty Ltd, which was a company that was allowed to escape from the guidelines. It negotiated a contract at $1.50 per tonne under the guidelines price for 8 million tonnes over two years. That meant that the company lost $24m in revenue in that period. On the basis of company tax, the Commonwealth lost $ 12m of revenue. The rest of the coal companies in Australia suffered a similar cutback. So the national interest was not protected. Even with the guidelines policy, the Minister could not stand his ground in the face of pressure from the Japanese steel mills. The Japanese steel mills even threatened not to send ships to the South Coast to pick up the tonnage. Yet this Minister is supposed to be protecting the national interest. 
I will say this for the Minister He put on the guidelines at the request of many companies in the iron ore area and those companies have since laid doggo when attacks have been made upon him. I know that to be the case. I was told that by the companies themselves. But those companies will not now say publicly that they made such a request for fear of reprisals from the Japanese steel mills for so doing. Of course, they are not game to come out and do so with that lunatic Western Australian Premier or that old criminal, the Queensland Premier, breathing down their necks. The result is that those companies now will say nothing. They are letting the Minister for Trade and Resources take the heat from the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister, in a characteristic display of disloyalty, ambushed his  deputy  amid the hysteria of the meeting in Perth of the Federal Council of the Liberal Party. He held a Cabinet meeting in Perth at which he, together with other senior Ministers, dumped the  Deputy  Prime Minister and deleted iron ore from the guidelines policy. But, to add insult to injury, the inevitable insult was that when a proposal was put to that Federal Council the Prime Minister voted with other people in the assembly to say that the guidelines policy was unacceptable and impracticable and should be withdrawn. That is an example of the kind of loyalty which is displayed by the unprincipled man who is the Prime Minister of Australia to a person who is a senior Minister in his Cabinet and his  deputy  in the coalition. The Prime Minister voted for a proposition which stated that his deputy's policy was unacceptable and impractical and should be withdrawn. We know that the  Deputy  Prime Minister discussed this policy with the Prime Minister, even if he did not discuss it with 
Cabinet in the first place, and that subsequent discussions were held. After launching the guidelines policy the  Deputy  Prime Minister took a trip to China. During that trip the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  sent a letter to the companies saying that the guidelines policy was only a draft policy. That was another display of disloyalty by the Prime Minister to his  deputy.  We can add the name of Anthony to the list of Lynch, Withers, Robinson and other senior Cabinet Ministers who have been knifed by the Prime Minister in a display of disloyalty and let down. It is no doubt a rogue's gallery but at least they deserved the loyalty of the man who is the Prime Minister. 
We have seen a complete split in the Government parties, a complete split between the coalition partners of the National Country Party and the Liberal Party, we have seen continuing attacks by the Prime Minister upon the National Country Party and we have seen the splitting of the resources portfolio with the energy section being given to the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman),  who became the Minister for National Development. The influence in the coalition of the National Country Party is being depressed and not a line has been written about it in the Press. At one time we saw some sensible and decent investigative reporting of these matters in weekly columns by members of the Press Gallery. Now we see nothing. This goes on and on. There have been massive splits in the Government and they have not seen the light of the day. 
The ultimate insult that the Prime Minister could pay to his  deputy  was to say that he should dance to the tune of the Premier of Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court. That Premier presided over the most disastrous commercial year in Western Australia's iron ore history. I refer to 1978. There were cuts in prices and cuts in tonnage. The Premier persists with the idea that there should be a free enterprise policy and that there should be no government intervention despite the fact that the iron ore companies he is supposed to look after are being driven to the wall. He wants to deny to the Australian national government, whether Labor or Liberal, the prerogative of price negotiation on resources.  Sir Charles  Court wants to abrogate the Commonwealth's constitutional powers in the interests of what he calls free enterprise in respect of trade. He wants similarly to abrogate the Commonwealth's constitutional powers over off-shore waters. He took Labor legislation covering offshore waters- the Seas and Submerged Lands Act- to the High Court.  His  case was ceremoniously thrown out of the High Court. What he could not do in the courts he wants to do through shabby Liberal Party backroom politics, and the Prime Minister wears it. The Government is still mucking around with compromises over off-shore legislation so that the Premier can manage the tenement areas offshore of Western Australia. 
Let me make it clear that the Opposition, when in government, will repeal the State Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act and declare a mining code to complement the Seas and Submerged Lands Act. We will manage the off-shore areas.  Sir Charles  Court can just eat his little heart out on the way through. If the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Prime Minister stood their ground and put the Premier in his place they would be so much the better, and so would the national interest. Instead of that we have this crude cargo cult mentality displayed by  Sir Charles  Court where he must deliver the cargo to Western Australians. The cargo is another iron ore mine. Honourable members will remember his attacks upon  Mr Connor  as Minister in 1973-74 because there were no more iron ore mines. Six years later there is still not one more mine. Why? Because there has been no demand. 
The same reason was given in 1 973-74 but in those days it was said to be all  Mr Connor's  fault. Now there are no iron ore mines and the cargo has still not been delivered. Of course, it would not occur to  Sir Charles  Court to set up a manufacturing industry in Perth to try to employ people. He wants only large extractive industries. He does not worry about the employment base of his State. There was a time when we could have said in terms of the earlier development of the Pilbara, the rational development of a few large productive, economic mines in Western Australia, that  Sir Charles  Court played a useful role; but he has degenerated to the point where he is a national menace. The national Government should put him in his place. That means that the Prime Minister should withstand the pressures of the Liberal Party and abide by his Cabinet's solidarity with his own  deputy. 
However, we see a constant squabbling which is viewed by other people around Australia. Apparently  Sir Charles  Court believes that foreign companies operating in Australia and companies owned by foreign governments operating in the resource area of Australia should have power over prices that is denied to the Australian national Government, and that the Australian national Government should be denied powers which are given to the corporate creatures of foreign governments. This is in the so-called policy of free enterprise. Even so, we have watched the  Deputy  Prime Minister wriggle and twist for a week under the pressure. Finally the capitulation came on Sunday night in his statement from which I will read. He said: 
There will be discussions with the States which will' explore all aspects of the matter fully and without prejudice in the interests of ensuring a genuine consideration of the bases of existing policies. 
Why would he negotiate with the States after what they have done to him? He continued: 
If examination shows that policies need modification or change they will be changed. 
In other words- 'If you want the policy you can have it, I will not stand my ground any longer'. He probably believes that with the Connor policy still in place he can fall back on that to veto contracts without the guideline policy. Again the rot sets in during negotiations and he knows it. He should stick to the guideline policy as the right policy for Australia and not sell it down the drain. On the same night the Prime Minister sent a' telltale telex to  Sir Charles  Court which said: 
The further use of Commonwealth powers will be finally decided only after those discussions have taken place. 
No doubt he has pressured his  deputy,  the Leader of the Country Party, into releasing his statement. They have already taken iron ore out of the guideline policy. The  Deputy  Prime Minister makes a big thing out of exempting antimony and tin and other commodities which are traded on the London metal exchange, but they do not matter in terms of this debate. It is the big bulk commodities which. we sell virtually by private treaty with Japan that matter. This policy is built around Japan. It deals only with the major traders of bulk materials. In that respect the  Deputy  Prime Minister has failed to. stand his ground. He has let down the interests of Australia and the interests of his own party within the coalition. He has done a damnable thing for this country. 
We on this side of the House believe that the export control policy and the guideline policy are correct. If administered sensibly and flexibly and not dogmatically in a climate of conducive relationships with Japan they can be very effective policies, and ones which should remain in this country. But what we have seen in the last couple of days is nothing short of a sell-out by the coalition parties, by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and his Department to the Liberal Party, to  Sir Charles  Court, to the parochial interests, of Australia and to the States, who believe only in getting new projects started at the risk of all existing projects on the basis that the squabble should be patched up in the Liberal Party and bows made to the notional slogan of free enterprise when no such free enterprise association exists. Shame upon the  Deputy  Prime Minister for being part of such a shabby compromise. He should stand his ground, put  Sir Charles  Court in his place and make the Prime Minister honour the concept of Cabinet solidarity. 
-The Opposition welcomes the statement by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  as a further indication of the Minister's keeping Parliament informed upon the movements in the prices of synthetic and naturally occurring liquid petroleum gas. As the House would realise, most of Australia's liquid petroleum gas is supplied by LPG produced as a by-product of catalytic cracking at refineries throughout Australia. There has been a loose arrangement between the oil companies and the Bass Strait producers that Bass Strait production should be an area of last resort in the event of a shortfall in the supplies of synthetically produced LPG in Australia. 
It has been the policy of the Opposition to increase the usage of LPG in the Australian motor vehicle fleet but a number of factors have operated against such a policy. One factor was that in the case of naturally occurring LPG selling at a price of approximately $A1 10 a tonne, there was a far more significant area of potential earnings for the Bass Strait producers by exporting LPG than by selling LPG domestically in Australia. The increase of $27 per tonne in the price of ex-refinery LPG as a result of the investigation by the Prices Justification Tribunal, will bring the price of ex-refinery and naturally occurring LPG to approximately the same figure of $.1 10 per tonne. This should start to create the mood for the development of a domestic market for naturally occurring LPG in Australia. 
It would be senseless endeavouring to have naturally occurring LPG sold ahead of refinery LPG. The consequence of such a policy would be the flaring again of gas at refineries. The Government did overcome this problem by freeing the price of naturally occurring LPG through applications to the PJT. The consequence of the policy outlined in the statement today is to remove any benefit that the Bass Strait producers might receive in the market place for selling naturally occurring LPG domestically by increasing the excise. However, over time, it should be in Australia's national interest to see that' the amount of LPG sold is well above refinery production, thus cutting into the massive quantities of LPG sold for export. 
Fifty per cent of the remaining recoverable reserves in Bass Strait of LPG, in terms of British thermal unit content, will be sold for export. Whilst I do not cavil at that policy in terms of the supply of liquid fuels in Australia I want to see Australia's domestic supplies of LPG used in our motor vehicle fleets. To that extent, I hope that over time the movements in this price will create a more conducive climate for the absorption of naturally occurring LPG into the Australian energy picture, through the Australian motor vehicle fleet in particular. On that basis the Opposition welcomes the statement. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hodges)  adjourned. 
-The Government has sought again to amend the Atomic Energy Act. It now amends the Act almost every three months. On this occasion it has sought to amend the original Act, which was enacted in 1953, to empower the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to borrow money on the open money market. There are many other ancillary provisions of the Bill which deal only with meetings of the Commission, officers and employees', rights of Public Servants, moneys payable to the Commission, estimates, audits and so on. The principal part is that which empowers the Commission to borrow. Perhaps I might read the provisions which will affect the prime Act. They are found at proposed new section 30, and read as follows: 
The Commission may, from time to time, borrow moneys (otherwise than from the Commonwealth) in such amounts, and on such terms and conditions, as the Treasurer approves. 
Approvals for the purposes of sub-section ( I ) may be given in respect of particular borrowings or in respect of borrowings included within specific classes of borrowings. 
The Commission may give security over the whole or any part of its assets for the repayment of amounts borrowed under this section and the payment of interest on amounts so borrowed. 
Further on it states: 
The Treasurer may, on behalf of the Commonwealth, guarantee the repayment by the Commission of amounts borrowed under this section and the payment of interest on amounts so borrowed. 
Where the Commission borrows moneys under this section by the issue of prescribed securities, the repayment by the Commission of the amounts borrowed and the payment of interest on those amounts is, by force of this subsection, guaranteed by the Commonwealth. 
Finally, it provides: 
The Commission shall not borrow moneys except in accordance with section 29 or this section. 
These provisions would finance the development of the Ranger uranium deposit and the Ranger uranium mine in the Northern Territory. I suppose that it would be opportune to point out at this stage the view of the Opposition about uranium mining- that there should be no addition of uranium to the international fuel cycle until the unresolved problems of the nuclear industry have been resolved. 
If the honourable member would just sit and listen for a while he might learn something. One of the problems that the Government has struck is that it cannot find a market for its uranium. We have now a silly situation in which, under the Ranger uranium consortium arrangement, the Government has the Atomic Energy Commission out seeking markets for its half of Ranger's production. It is almost unbelievable that, the Ranger uranium consortium having been entered into with the Peko-EZ companies, the Government rather than the consortium is to seek a market for its share of the produce and the companies will do the same for the rest. The Government will be concluding safeguards agreements with other countries, and, of course, will be in a position to sell its uranium before Peko-EZ can do so. That could not in any way be conducive to a happy corporate marriage between the Atomic Energy Commission and Peko-EZ. I cannot understand how a government which believes that nuclear power is the saviour in regard to power generation for the Western world can still believe that there is a market for uranium when it has to do this to its own authority- as it has done. 
Therefore the Opposition is critical, first, of the Government's determination to develop Ranger and, secondly, of the crazy way in which the Government has gone about it. We have had, of course, other major objections to the Commission. The main one has been that the Commission was essentially created as a defence service establishment. It was established in the Cold War climate of the early 1950s so that it might involve itself in nuclear research, much of it with a military connotation, or weapons-related. For that reason, draconian security measures were introduced. The Bill was brought down at a time when there had been espionage scandals in the Northern Hemisphere- hence these repressive security provisions. 
The Government has retained those provisions and has extended the role of the Commission to include the mining and production of uranium and the carrying out of other commercial activities. At the moment the Atomic Energy Commission undertakes a variety of functions. I cite some of them: Nuclear fuel cycle research and development; radioisotope preparation and distribution; regulatory and safety aspects of nuclear operations; participation in mineral development; de facto source of nuclear energy policy advice; where necessary, nuclear weapons research and advice; and a minor amount of nonnuclear energy research. So what we see here is. of course, a hotch-potch of an organisation in terms of the roles that it has to carry out. Some of those roles are conflicting in nature, particularly the regulatory role and that of sponsoring and developing, indeed, the concept of nuclearrelated energy and power. On this basis, the Opposition proposes an amendment of the second reading motion. Accordingly. I move: 
That all words after 'That' bc omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the House declines to give the Bill a second reading u. it  is of opinion  that- 
1 ) the Australian Atomic Energy Commission should not be empowered to raise funds on the commercial market for uranium mining until such time as the unresolved problems associated with the nuclear industry have been satisfactorily resolved: and 
2 ) the Atomic Energy Act is an inappropriate legislative basis for nuclear energy research and development and for commercial activities and should be repealed and replaced by legislation to establish- 
an independent regulatory authority responsible for nuclear-related environmental protection, health, safety, security, safeguards and other non-proliferation activities: 
a government corporation to conduct the present commercial activities of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, such as the production and marketing of radioisotopes: and 
a Nuclear Science Authority to perform, as appropriate, the other functions currently undertaken by the Commission. 
The Opposition believes that that is a thoroughly appropriate amendment to this legislation and moves it in the clear knowledge that the Government has established a committee of review to review the activities of the Atomic Energy Commission. However, it is a committee that we believe has inadeqate terms of reference- terms which pre-determine the result to the review in the direction of the retention of the Atomic Energy Commission in a modified form as a national centre for energy research, and prevents the consideration of alternative forms of national energy research centres. 
One of the problems about building an energy research and development agency around the Atomic Energy Commission is that, basically, the weight of 25 years of bureaucratic experience will direct the whole thrust of such an agency towards the nuclear area. For that reason, the Opposition suggests that we break up the Com: mission so that it will have a commercial function- a function to handle nuclear medicine, radioisotopes and such matters- and an independent regulatory authority responsible for environmental matters, including the Australian Safeguards Office which, even though it has a specific safeguards function, is an integral part of the Atomic Energy Commission in as much as it reports through the  Chairman  of the Commission. 
We would propose to break it up further by forming a nuclear science authority which would do the kinds of things that the Atomic Energy Commission has done since its inception. It would be far better to have a nuclear science authority established in its own right than to attempt to submerge the present functions ofthe 
Atomic Energy Commission within an energy research and development agency. If one were foolish enough to believe that the aims ofthe research and development agency would not be diluted by the force of 25 years of nuclear research and a career structure in the Atomic Energy Commission which would be heavily involved in this research and development agency, one would be very much mistaken. We believe that there ought to be a nuclear science authority. Those who committed their lives to the branch of nuclear research when it was something which was viewed by most people as a thoroughly important scientific endeavour transcending most other areas of scientific research are entitled to maintain their places in the career structure which has been established in the Commission. The nuclear science authority would do that, but again it would be separate and distinct from the energy research and development agency situation. 
The other criticism we have of the Government's review is that it would preclude thorough consideration of the commercial activities ofthe Commission, including the most appropriate administrative arrangements for those activities and their relationship to the Commission's nuclear energy research activities and facilities. It would also exclude consideration of the nuclear regulatory and safeguards activities of the Commission and their relationship to the activities of the Australian Safeguards Office and other government agencies involved with nuclear regulatory and safeguard activities. We think that there is room for a firm decision by the Parliament in lieu of the review which has taken place. Many criticisms have been levied. The submission which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  presented to the review group listed the recent criticisms of the Commission as follows: Its conflicting functions in both promoting and regulating nuclear activities; its past failures in attempts to develop and innovate nuclear technologies; the questionable quality of its research; and the excessive secrecy which surrounds its work and its general lack of mission. 
Some people in the Commission may feel offended by the general tenor of those remarks. They are not an attack upon personalities; they are an attack upon the general directions in which the Commission has operated. I shall deal with that in terms of the kinds of research efforts which we have had undertaken in recent times. In the mid-1960s the Commission abandoned research into high temperature gas-cooled nuclear reactors, what was then called the HTGCR. In the late 1960s there was abandonment of the illconceived Jervis Bay project, which was to build Australia's first nuclear power generator. It was to be a unit of 500 megawatts which the Electricity Commission of New South Wales did not want feeding into its grid and which in the original days was to be fuelled by a natural uranium reactor. The natural uranium reactor was chosen because of the high by-product of plutonium which was produced from such a reactor. The plutonium by-product was the thin edge of the wedge for the acquisition by Australia of a nuclear weapons option. Some but not all of the people who were in the Atomic Energy Commission-- 
The clown on the other side of the House laughs. He was not here then, so it may be of some interest to him to listen to the history of this project. I was here then and I was involved in it. There were Ministers in the McMahon Government who wanted Australia to have a nuclear weapon and there were elements in the Atomic Energy Commission which were prepared to accommodate that view and to comply with it. The Jervis Bay project was built around that and it was to be the reason for the establishment of the Atomic Energy Commission in Australia. It was abandoned mainly because of attacks by the Labor Party at that time. At that stage we were the only sentries at the gate on this matter. We exposed it and the Gorton Government abandoned it. Research into uranium enrichment is being undertaken by the Commission. We are not certain as to the nature of the research effort and how successful it is. It is surrounded by excessive secrecy. It was supposedly to be in readiness for the development of Australia's uranium reserves and a move into an enrichment plant of a design which was to be Australian in concept. We do not know whether that research is valuable but one thing is apparent. That is, that this country does not need nuclear power. Australia is a country with abundant reserves of coal and other fossil fuels and we are not in the position in which, unfortunately, some countries are of having a lack of reserves and resources and of having to take a decision to go to nuclear power. Fortunately when we had pressures applied to us to do so we resisted and rejected the nuclear option. 
In this country electricity generation is not much of an issue. There is coal in Victoria- the biggest deposits of brown coal in the world- and all the way down the east coast of Australia. There is coal in Western Australia, albeit from a poor deposit but nevertheless sufficient to maintain that State's power grid into the intermediate future. Perhaps the States which have some problems with power generation are South Australia and, to a lesser extent, Tasmania. But they can be provided with coal from the major coal producing States. If we can ship steaming coal competitively to Europe and Japan we can certainly ship it from Queensland and New South Wales to South Australia or Tasmania. On top of that we have natural gas. We could have a debate about whether we should burn natural gas in a power station but that is another issue. However, natural gas is available in this country. Australia is a gas-prone continent. So we do not really need electrical generation from nuclear power. When one looks at the research and development expenditure on energy in Australia one finds a complete distortion in favour of nuclear power. In fact, about 55 per cent of all Commonwealth expenditure on energy research and development goes into nuclear power through the Atomic Energy Commission. Translated into the total research effort- that is, Commonwealth and private- through universities, companies and other institutions, we find that the allocation for the Atomic Energy Commission takes 35 per cent of the total funds available for energy research and development in this country. Last year research into nuclear power was allocated somewhere between $12m and $15m. Coal research was allocated $8.25m, petroleum research was allocated about $2m and solar energy research was allocated about $3m. 
Australia is short of liquid fuels. It is short generally of petroleum. If our research and development effort is to go anywhere it ought to go into petroleum in order to keep our cars running and our transport system running efficiently. It also ought to be going into solar energy. In a country with a very high level of insulation and with the prospect of technology being available, we could produce a system of solar power which is competitive with the ruling international prices for energy. At the Australian National University in this very city a program under Professor Kaneff is looking at a solar farm with parabolic reflectors which, when in production, will be competitive with oil for medium or modest power applications. It is not just a matter of low-grade heat or putting a flat plate reflector on one's roof to heat the bath water. It does not have industrial and commercial applications. But what is the funding for that research? The funding is $3m. What is the funding for nuclear power? It is between $ 12m and $ 1 5m. 
We do not need nuclear power; nevertheless the Government is going down the nuclear course. It is determined that that is the direction in which it will travel. We on this side of the House say that it is a waste of money and is irresponsible but we are not so silly as to say or to believe that 25 years of experience in nuclear power can be just thrown out. There are nuclear applications other than power generation, such as nuclear medicine, and the people who have committed themselves, their livelihood and their careers to this branch of research should not be thrown into the dustbin. We accept that. That is why we are talking about the establishment of a nuclear science authority. But the emphasis is on science, not energy. The enormous expenditures which are now moving into nuclear research and development in respect of energy would be abandoned under a Labor government. 
We are worried about the energy which Australia needs; that is, oil to keep the cars running- liquid fuels. The Government's only energy policy is to beat the hell out of the Australian motorists with high petrol prices. Since this Government came to power the cost for the average motorist of filling the tank has risen by $5. That is the Government's contribution. All it is interested in doing is looking after the companies in the Budget deficit. 
I have referred to the conflict of the various roles that the Australian Atomic Energy Commission has- its nuclear regulatory role, as a promoter of nuclear power, as a promoter of nuclear research, and now as a commercial activist in the uranium mining area. I just make the point that the United States, Britain, Canada and West Germany have broken up their atomic energy commissions into the kind of organisation which we propose in the amendments. They have split the responsibilities, so that there will be one body dealing with commercial activities, one dealing with research and development and one dealing with health regulation and these other matters. There is a case for having such a body. Even though we do not have nuclear power programs in this country there are many related matters which require a competent, independent, nuclear regulatory body, and not one modelled on the Australian Safeguards Office, which is still part of the Commission, which has Commission staff, and which reports to the  chairman  of the Atomic Energy Commission. 
The Atomic Energy Act is an inappropriate vehicle for the commercial mining of uranium, or for any commercial mining, because under that Act any project can be declared a defence project. The declaration of any project as a defence project robs people of civil liberties connected with that project. They could be the people who work on the project, they could be the people who transport goods to the project, or the people who sell its products. Those people can be caught up under this defence label. There can be a denial of civil liberties and these repressive Draconian security provisions can come into play in normal commercial mining. So there is an overwhelming case for breaking up the Commission, but even more importantly, to have it abandon its activities in respect of uranium mining in Australia. 
It is very interesting to note, of course, that the Government which has opposed Government intervention in the market place has stuck with the Commission concept. It has stuck with the concept because of the memorandum of understanding between the Atomic Energy Commission and Peko-EZ. But all the same the Government has run out on that spirit by having the Atomic Energy Commission seek to find its own markets overseas and let Peko-EZ rot. It has done that because it cannot sell uranium. Last week the Korean Prime Minister and Minister for Energy visited Australia with a delegation, which I was pleased to meet. Apparently this Nuclear Safeguards Agreement was enacted and signed, but it has still not been tabled. What a disgraceful situation that is. First of all, the Government would not table the model safeguards agreements. Now it will not table the final agreements. We do not know what is in the agreements. We on this side of the house believe the safeguards have been watered down to get contracts. We will see if we are right when the Government does the decent thing and tables the agreement. To date it has not done so, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  who puts on these Thespian performances at the dispatch box every day would do well to get in here and table the agreement and let us see what is in it, to see whether the Government has in fact stood by the commitments that the Prime Minister  (Mr Fraser)  gave in May 1977 in respect to safeguards. 
I do not know, but we would like to know. Obviously the honourable member does not know. If members of the Government do not know, what chance have members of the Opposition? The Government has failed to do anything about the repressive provisions in the Act. It will not table safeguards agreements. It has this hotch-potch of an institution, the Atomic Energy Commission, constantly amended. We have Bills in every couple of months to change it. It is still basically a defence-oriented research establishment. It is a completely inappropriate vehicle for uranium mining but the Government is apparently determined to try to give itself a hard edge. If the Government comes to any construction problems with this project, it calls up the defence powers of that Act and uses them against any Australian who objects to its construction, its operation, or the like. Every Australian should have the right to take whatever view he likes about such an institution, without the risk of being imprisoned or being subject to massive penalties. 
We on this side of the house commend the amendment to the Parliament. We believe that if it is carried it will be the best thing for Australia in respect of the policy for commercial uranium mining, and also in terms of the breaking up and the re-establishment of the various sections of the Atomic Energy Commission into separate independent bodies. 
-This Bill is to amend the Pipeline Authority Act 1973, which was established to build pipelines in Australia and which has in that period constructed a pipeline between Moomba and Sydney. The Bill is designed to rationalise the powers and functions of the Authority. It deals with the membership of the Authority and other issues, but it also in a significant way changes the powers of the Authority. While the Opposition can see some rationalisation of those powers, in the broad it opposes the legislation because of the nature of the changes. Some of the original powers could be redundant and have probably not been used. I will just recount some of the powers which the Government has removed from this legislation. I will say that it has left two of the original powers existing in the Act. The first is section 1 3 ( 1 ) (a) which reads: 
to construct pipelinefor the conveyance of petroleum recovered from Australian petroleum pools to centres of population and points of export with a view to the establishment of a national integrated system of such pipelines, and to maintain and operate those pipelines; 
In other words, the Government is prepared to go along with the original concept in the Act of a national integrated pipeline grid. The Government is retaining section 13 ( 1 ) (b) which states: 
to convey, through the pipes operated by the Authority, petroleum belonging to the Authority or to other persons; 
The Government is prepared to carry someone else's gas or indeed its own gas which it can buy. The Government has removed certain powers. Firstly, section 13(1) (c) provides: 
to buy and sell petroleum, whether in Australia or elsewhere; 
Let me make a comment about that. Under that power, for instance, the Authority could buy a tanker load of refined petroleum products. I agree that there is not much use in the Authority in doing that, it is not an appropriate power; nevertheless it never had to be used and could have remained dormant. Section 13(1) (d) states: 
to ensure continuity of supply of natural gas, that is free from impurities; 
That is again an objective, but I suppose that anybody who supplied natural gas would like to think that it was free of impurity. Any selfrespecting utility would certainly want to do that. Again it is a power that does not necessarily have to be summoned up. Section 13 ( 1 ) (e) states: 
to ensure that natural gas supplied by the Authority is available at a gate-valve delivery price that is, at all times, uniform throughout Australia, after making due allowances for differences in the calorific values of natural gas obtained from different sources. 
I believe that that is a very hard concept to live with in this day and age. I will grant the Government that, given the fact that various centres will have gas available to them at different times and contracts will be entered into at different times. To move to a uniform price would be very difficult to do. Section 13 ( 1 ) (f) states: 
to ensure that condensate, petroleum gas and other substances derived from natural gas are retained and processed in Australia in order that they may be available to augment supplies of motor spirit and similar fuels obtained from indigenous sources; and 
Again in the amendment which the Government proposes that is probably covered. However, the Government has thrown out sub-section 2 (g) which states: 
to secure, control and retain reserves of petroleum adequate to meet the long term needs of the Australian people. 
I think that the Government is very unwise to take that power from the Authority, because the Authority with that power could then sit upon reserves which it may have contracted or which it may use in the future to supply a particular part of Australia. I believe that it would have been in the Government's interest for the Authority to maintain sub-section 2 (g). It replaces those provisions with this provision: 
to buy petroleum that is to be, is being or has been conveyed by the Authority- 
In other words, it will buy petroleum which is going to be sold, or which is in the course of being sold, or which has been sold or conveyed by the Authority-  and is in, or is to come into, the possession of the Authority for that purpose, and to sell petroleum so purchased. 
So the Government will cloak the Authority with powers to buy and sell petroleum. It will not be just a common carrier. It will not carry someone else's gas. It can actually buy, sell and operate a pipeline grid. But it cannot secure control and retain reserves as was provided in section 13 ( 1 ) (g) of the Act. I think it is a shame that that provision is going. The second amendment to that section of the Act which the Government proposes relates to paragraph (d) of the Bill which states: 
to furnish advice, with respect to the conveyance, or distribution, of petroleum within Australian by means of pipelines- 
to the Minister; or 
to anybody or person approved by the Minister as a body to which, or person to whom, such advice may be furnished. 
Again, I do not cavil at that power. It would seem to rationalise paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) as originally provided in the Act. I admit that the drafting is very loose there. But they are powers which the Authority had originally. They may not have been used in the past but there was no need to take them away. I accept that paragraphs (c), (d), (e) and (f), stretching a point, could be rationalised as proposed by the Government. But I would have preferred to have seen paragraph (g) included in the Government's changes. Perhaps the most ominous change or proposal in the legislation- this is really the core of the Opposition's difficulty with the legislation- relates to clause 11 of the amending Bill. In relation to amending section 15 of the principal Act, it states: 
by adding at the end thereof the following sub-sections: 
The Authority shall not construct a pipeline in  Australia or on the Australian continental shelf or the continental shelf of the Territory of Ashmore and Cartier Islands unless the Parliament has, by an Act of the Parliament, authorised the construction of the pipeline. 
A Bill to authorise the construction of a pipeline by  the Authority shall contain provisions relating to the following matters: 
a detailed description of the route of the proposed pipeline; 
the limit of deviation; and 
the estimated cost of the proposed pipeline. 
That seems to me to be a thoroughly nonsensical proposal. Why a Commonwealth statutory utility with a record of performance which this body has should be hamstrung in this way by the Government is beyond me. For instance, no one would argue that Trans Australia Airlines should come to the Government and get an Act of Parliament through both Houses in order that it can buy a new aircraft. It might do that if it wanted a loan guarantee but it would not do that for the decision to get a new aircraft. Similarly, no one would argue that the Australian National Railways should come here and seek the approval of both Houses of Parliament to buy new rolling stock. To me that seems to be a completely mindless proposal, remembering that the Pipeline Authority built the 1,300 kilometre pipeline between Moomba and Sydney in record time, that it is already a contributor to Consolidated Revenue, that it was a first-class construction job, on time, within estimates and is a payer. It is not a cost on the public. It returns money. 
But now what do we find? We find that the Authority has to have the approval of Parliament. Why is that done? Do honourable members think that people on the Authority have recommended this? Of course they have not. This is a piece of villainy by the Government. All I can say is that this is testimony to the fact that the Government feels that its political life is in jeopardy and that it will not be in office for much longer. This provision is being inserted to hamstring a future Labor Party Government in relation to the construction of pipelines throughout Australia and for no other reason. This Government has control of both Houses of Parliament and it could, by virtue of this Act, construct pipelines if they were needed and if the market demand were there. Instead the Government wants a Bill to go through both Houses of Parliament in the belief that it can return to the obstructionist tactics that it adopted between 1 972 and 1 975 in the vain hope that in the future it will control the Senate while a Labor government has a majority in the House of Representatives. 
If the Minister for Minerals and Energy in a Labor Government sought to build a new pipeline between centres the present Government could frustrate the construction of such a pipeline. That smacks of the worst features of the Senate obstructionism by the Liberal and Country parties throughout the years 1972 to 1975. It is a completely interventionist approach to what would otherwise be the free operation of this statutory authority. It seems that the coalition parties have learnt nothing from the events of November 1975 and are giving notice now that in opposition they will be as obstructionist as they were then. As well as that one could look at other ways in which they behaved over that time. For instance, before 1972 when Labor came to power, the coalition extended the two airline agreement because it thought Reg Ansett would not get his way if a Labor government were in power. Therefore it tried to lock in a future government. 
That is what the Government is trying to do now. It is trying to keep control so that it will be able to run a government from opposition in the Senate, that unrepresentative chamber. That is the only construction I can put upon this change. I think that reflects very poorly upon the nature of the Liberal-Country Party coalition in this Parliament. After all, it is a reasonable thing that the Commonwealth should have a competent authority to establish pipelines throughout Australia and to have a rational pipeline system. We have learnt lessons from the United States where they built pipelines during the war for transportation of petroleum. After the war, with the post-war growth, there was what is now termed the spaghetti bowl in the United States. There were pipelines everywhere with different prices for gases and different contractual situations. There was total inefficiency. Instead of that we moved rationally, at a stage when the first major long-distance pipelines was built to have a Commonwealth authority to do the thing properly and to develop engineering competence so that the Australian public could be the beneficiaries of a sensible scheme to bring this premium fuel of natural gas to their homes and to industry in the factories. But instead of doing this, what do we see? We see not just a rationalisation of the Authority's powers which we could accept but the complete hamstringing of the Authority by the insertion of clause 1 1 . 
The Opposition is opposed to the Bill for this reason. In the Committee stage of the debate I will seek to have clause 1 1 of the Bill removed. I hope that the Government will consider some of the remarks that I have made about it. I do not see why there should be a dispute between both the major parties over a matter like this when there is a competent authority. Nobody is cavilling about the Authority, the people who sit on the board or the management team. There is no dispute about any of these matters in the Parliament. But injected into the Pipeline Authority is this damaging political act of trying to hamstring it so that in future both Houses of Parliament will have to agree. People may ask: 'What is wrong with both Houses ofParliament needing to agree to something? Is that not democratic?' That would be democratic if the Senate respected the views of the Government in the House of Representatives, the Lower House, but that is not the way in which it has behaved in the past. I do not see that one needs to extend this kind of mock democratic process to these lengths when other statutory bodies of the Commonwealth do not need to have the approval ofParliament for their equipment, construction or any other thing. For instance it would be stupid if Qantas Airways Ltd had to get an Act ofParliament through both Houses in order to build a new hangar at an airport or for some such proposition. That is an outrageous concept. We on this side of the House are vigorously opposed to it. 
One would think that, after the divisions of other years, Australia and the coalition parties would wake up and look at matters in terms of the national interest, to see that there is such a thing and to understand that no government will build pipelines where they are not required, or where there is not adequate market demand or where they are not economic, unless there is a need to have a subsidy situation specifically involved. There would be no irrational decisions in respect of these issues, one would hope, by either of the major parties. Instead, here we have the old attempt to run government from Opposition. When the same thing is done on this side of the House in regard to the question of uranium, when we say that a Labor Party in government will not agree to contracts entered into by a nonLabor government, all hell breaks loose. We are told what an atrocity it is. The Fraser Government can walk away from commitments entered into by the Labor Government. For instance, it can walk away from the commitments entered into in respect of sand mining on Fraser Island and get itself into all sorts of international hot water over the breaking of those agreements, including being sued by the companies involved. However, it is very bad if we propose anything similar. In that regard, at least we have something going for us. At least there are problems in the nuclear industry and we are entitled to do what we are doing. It is just unbelievable that the Government would act in this way in respect of a pipeline to supply natural gas to our cities. 
In conclusion, we are not opposed to the provisions of the Bill which relate to staff of the Authority, consultants, application of moneys, borrowing by the Authority, financial policy, estimates, regulations, and other ancillary matters. We are concerned about the rationalisation of the original legislation whereby the Government has taken away section 13 (1) (g) and some other sections. Even though those powers were not being used, they were there and could be called upon if necessary. More importantly, however, we are concerned about the insertion of clause 1 1, which requires this Act of Parliament concept for pipelines. The Opposition will be opposing clause 1 1 at the Committee stage and will be seeking to have it deleted from the Bill. I only hope that the Government will see its way clear to agree to the amendment. 
I refer the Deputy Prime Minister to his statement of 6 August in respect of the Ranger project and the Government's intention to sell control of yet another Australian resource. I ask the Deputy Prime Minister: What criteria will the Government use to assess offers for the sale of its 50 per cent interest in the Ranger project? Will consideration be restricted to Australian interests or will the Government sell to any interest that offers the highest premium on its share of Ranger? If the latter is the case, does the Government intend at least to stand by its 75 per cent- 25 per cent Australian equity policy for uranium deposits or does it intend to invoke the 50-50 approach developed for the Yeelirrie deal and thus run out on its own stated investment policy, its commitments to the Parliament with respect to uranium policy and the national interest? 
-The Opposition raises as a matter of public importance the following matter: 
The use of a selective and disguised $2,000m petrol tax on motorists to hide the real impact of the Prime Minister's high tax policies. 
We raise this matter of public importance because we think it is about time the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Government were brought to book for masquerading as a low tax government. In fact the opposite is the case. The Prime Minister and the Government have indulged in tax policies which have moved from direct income taxation to indirect taxation. Such policies unfairly impinge on low and middle income earners and penalise them differentially in comparison with people on higher incomes. During the three years the Fraser Government has been in office taxation receipts as a percentage of gross domestic product have been significantly greater- I want to stress that point- than was the case under the Labor Government in the three years between 1972 and 1975. 
The myth is that this Government is a low tax government. Of course it is not. It is a high tax government and the Prime Minister has tried to dupe the public by saying that he has kept taxes down. He wants the public to believe that he is a tax cutter when in fact the opposite is the case. There has been speculation in newspapers of recent days that in tonight's Budget some personal tax cuts may be announced or that tax indexation may again be taken aboard. 
Or both. The Prime Minister may do those things in an attempt to regain credibility from his base of 29 per cent acceptance by the Australian public in relation to the way in which he is handling his job and in an attempt to convince the public that he is keeping promises, practically all of which have been broken. Promises made by the Prime Minister in a number of election campaigns have been broken quite unashamedly. This has been done in clear view of the public, so the public is aware of his actions. Now the Government is contemplating attempts to regain credibility. After all, it has a Prime Minister who cannot be believed. Nobody can believe the present Prime Minister. 
The Government is thinking about going into an election campaign with a leader the public does not believe. It intends to look at ways in which to gild the lily with taxation cuts after it has collected $2,200m in tax from the motorist. 
Let us look at the way in which the Government has operated. It has put the emphasis on indirect taxation. The public will remember that in last year's Budget the price of whisky increased from $5 or $6 a bottle to $ 1 1 or $ 12 a bottle. The price of beer and cigarettes increased. All of these increases were in the form of indirect taxation. The Government in its mini-Budget abolished the 40 per cent subsidy for health insurance. So the costs have been borne by the public by way of indirect taxation. 
The greatest increase by way of indirect taxation has been in the case of petrol. In the three years that the Fraser Government has been in office the price of petrol has risen by 100 per cent; it has gone from 60 cents a gallon wholesale to $1.20 a gallon. Since  Mr Fraser  has been Prime Minister the average motorist with a 12-gallon tank has paid an additional $7.20 per tank full of petrol. I will put it another way. This year Australian consumers will spend about $3,000m for products from oil produced in Australia. Of that $3,000m, $2,500m will go straight to the Fraser Government's tax coffers. It will be collected by way of the crude oil levy. 
The public may be at a loss to understand how this subterfuge or sleight of hand has been worked on them. It has been done very simply. The public may believe that the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries or the Arabs in the Middle East are responsible for this policy. In fact Australia is dependent on imports for only one-third of its crude oil requirements. So we must pay the going world price for one-third of our requirements. However, for the other twothirds we can pay whatever price the Government determines. Until three years ago the price was $2.09 a barrel. The Government has now determined that the Australian public will pay the equivalent of $18.66 a barrel. It has done this by the hoax of implementing a policy of import parity in respect of old discoveries. 
In other words, the Government, by the existence of a low cost oil field in Bass Strait, has the option of deciding the proportion of the value of import parity it may charge for oil produced in Australia from a low cost oil field. It has decided to give the producers $5 a barrel and to keep $ 1 3.66 a barrel for itself. From that $5 a barrel, $2 is collected by way of company tax. So the Government keeps $ 1 5. 66 for itself and gives the producers $3. This has nothing to do with the Arabs; it has nothing to do with OPEC. It was a decision made by the Fraser Government, resulting from its obsession with the Budget deficit, to collect $2,200m. Until the latest OPEC increases the rate of collection was about $ 1 ,250m in a full year. When the increases from the OPEC states became effective, the Government thought that it was an opportunity to grab another $900m and to blame it on the Arabs. So the Government announced that two-thirds of domestically produced oil would be charged for at the world price. Once again the motorists and farmers would pay through the nose. As a result of that decision the Government gained $850m. Perhaps tonight it will give back a little of that money. But if it does so it will not be done against the backdrop of election promises. All the Government will be doing is taking $2, 200m with one hand and giving back a small proportion of it with the other hand. So if the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  does any gladhanding tonight let it be clearly understood that no real return of moneys will be made to the Australian public. 
In addition to the $2,200m that the Government is collecting, it collects $95 lm from what is called the refined products excise; that is, the ordinary pump tax which always has been imposed on petrol. So the Government is collecting $2,200m on crude oil, $95 lm on petrol, $250m on company tax from the windfalls and $100m on company tax from the revenue from Bass Strait. On one commodity alone- oil, petrol and petroleum products- the Government is collecting $3,400m. 
The Australian motorists who are listening to the broadcast of this debate while driving home in their cars and the farmers who are listening to it on their farms should know clearly now that the Government is getting 1 1 per cent of its total budgetary receipts from one commodity alone. Since this Government has been in office it has collected roughly $2,500m more from petrol. The rising costs, the inflationary impost and the crushing burden upon the lower income earners of indirect taxes by way of petrol price rises are of course the express policy of the Fraser Government. It does not have to charge the world price for the oil produced in Australia, which is two-thirds of Australia's consumption of oil. It does so simply to enable it to hide behind the subterfuge that the prices are being increased by the Arabs, that this selective and disguised tax of $2,200m is caused by the Arabs. It is caused by the Fraser Government's rapacious greed for budgetary revenue. 
It is worth recounting simply the way in which the Fraser Government has spent money since it has been in office. It put itself up as a low spending, low tax government. In fact, Budget outlays as a proportion of the gross domestic productthat is the only way one can look at them- have increased in real terms from the 28. 1 per cent average during the three years of office of the Whitlam Government to 30 per cent now. The same has been done with taxation receipts. This Government is the highest tax government Australia has ever had- in real terms, not in money terms. The Government will collect roughly an additional $ 1,000m by way of the crude oil levy just from the middle of this yearnot from before that, just from the latest increases. It will receive $850m and the company tax on the windfalls to the Bass Strait producers. That $ 1,000m represents $200 in taxation for every civilian employee in Australia. That is not just a small proportion or a surcharge; it is $200 per annum for every civilian employee from that increase. That is apart from the additional $ 1,300m imposed before the recent increase; it involves just the increases since May- June of this year. Honourable members opposite should be ashamed of themselves as a government. They masquerade as members of a low-tax government when in fact they are slugging the backside off every motorist and consumer of petroleum products in Australia and placing the burden of revenue raising more and more upon indirect taxes. 
The switch to the imposition of indirect taxes is a tragedy. Indirect taxes are indiscriminate. No assessment is made of one 's capacity to pay. That means that low income earners, the small person with his motor car or even small farmers and small businessmen alike, are paying through the nose by way of indirect taxes on petrol. If that kind of tax were levied according to one's income it would be assessed on the person's capacity to pay. Instead of that the low income earner, as always, is hit the hardest. This is the product of the policy of the present Fraser Government. The move to import parity supposedly was applied in the interest of the conservation of oil. The Government said that it was increasing the price, otherwise people would use the oil too quickly. What has happened? In fact there has been no drop in consumption. The latest figures released by the Bureau of Statistics- the ones for the first four months of this year- show that the consumption of petroleum products increased by 5.2 per cent over the same period in 1978. The Department of National Development- the Minister for 
National Development  (Mr Newman)  is not here to answer the charge, by the way- predicted that demand would grow by 2.7 per cent. 
All the petrol companies are planning for higher and higher consumption in the next 12 months. They do not believe that the crude oil levy will retard consumption. The measure was introduced simply to raise revenue because of the Prime Minister's obsession with the Budget deficit. The Government might have been able to cover the Budget deficit this year but then came the windfall of the price increases agreed to at the meeting of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries in Vienna in June and July. Once the increases were announced the Government saw that it could raise another $800m or $900m in tax in a full year and that this gave it certain budgetary options. No doubt tonight the Treasurer will make great play of any small handouts that the Government makes. Let the public understand clearly that even if the speculation is true Australians will not get anything like the amount that the Government has collected by way of the crude oil levy, the refined product excise or any of the indirect taxes which have operated in the last 12 months. 
The Government speakers who are to follow me in this debate will be back bench members. I see the Minister for National Development entering the chamber. I do not think that he will speak in this debate. He indicates that that is so. The Government will not even answer this charge. It will not even defend itself. It will put up two obscure back bench members, who will not be here after the next election, to answer the case. No Minister will front to answer it. The Minister for National Development is on the edge of ministerial failure and of being removed from his office by the Prime Minister. He is a disgrace to his team. He has let it down through his incompetence. The Treasurer will not come into the chamber to explain to the public why the Government is collecting  S2'A  billion in taxes from motorists and the consuming public. 
This levy is a massive sleight of hand. It is tax by stealth, blaming the Arabs when in fact the Government has made a decision to link the OPEC price with the official price being paid by Australian refineries for oil produced in Australia for 65c- not dollars, cents- per barrel. Oil from Bass Strait is produced from the big fields at 65c per barrel and the Australian public is charged $18.66 per barrel. In other words, we can say that most of Australia's oil is produced at around $ 1 per barrel and the public is charged $18.66 a barrel. The Liberal Party has broken its commitment to the Australian public about being a low tax party. It is the highest tax party in Australia's history. The Fraser Government is the highest tax government in Australia 's history. It is also a dishonourable government as it does not keep promises. It may try to discount the damage which has been done by in some way handing back a minute proportion of the massive collections it has taken by stealth from the motorist. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-by leave-The Opposition largely supports the recommendations of the Research Directorate of the former Department of the Environment, Housing and Community Development which produced this report entitled 'A Basis for Soil Conservation Policy in Australia'. It is also encouraged by the Government's response to the recommendations which the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  in large part accepts. It is, I believe, a very good report. I have had a copy of the report together with the statement for only a couple of hours. I should like to examine it further but a cursory reading of the report seems to indicate that it is a report of real merit on a topic that has occupied the thoughts of many Australians both in the past and at present. I shall read some of the Minister's comments on soil conservation in the statement. He said: 
Fifty-five per cent of all land in use in the arid zone is in need of conservation works and/or improved land management practices if its productivity is to be maintained, while in the non-arid more intensively used zone 44 per cent is in need of treatment. The report estimated that the capital cost of soil conservation works alone to treat affected land, or land at risk, was $675 m at the 1 975 level of costs. 
That is quite a significant comment by the Minister arising out of the report and a significant conclusion of the committee which drafted the report. I believe that the report should be digested by honourable members and taken seriously. The authors of the report make the point that the Commonwealth does have State-like functions in the Territories, particularly the Northern Territory, the Australian Capital Territory and other federal Territories, but more importantly, that it has State responsibilities in these areas, not only for soil conservation and water policy but also to co-ordinate with the States on the question of soil conservation for the benefit of all Australians, particularly those in rural industry. 
The study also looks at the relation between production and conservation- the inevitable trade-off between commerce and the environment or enterprise and the environment and makes recommendations. But primarily it sees the Commonwealth having a research and coordinating role. Importantly, in its recommendations it urges the Commonwealth to join with the States on a soil conservation program, on a total catchment approach and with priority funding in declared areas of soil erosion with full participation by the State and local government authorities concerned. The Commonwealth has gone on to say further that there ought to be an equitable distribution of costs between the parties. It is encouraging that the Government has accepted the report. I know it is a practice in this House for the Government to introduce reports of this nature with a statement, but it is a shame that the Opposition does not have a chance to study the value of the report before a statement is made so that a comprehensive and detailed analysis can be undertaken by the Opposition and a suitable response made to the Government. I am not in a position to do that. One cannot be the oracle on these matters without first understanding the copy, text and recommendations of such a report. We on this side of the House look forward to a debate- I hope a bipartisan debate- on this question sometime in the future. But I also say that those of us who have had a chance to look cursorily at the report offer our congratulations to those who drafted it. 
I refer the Prime Minister to his energy statement of 27 June in which he stated: 
The Government reaffirms its policy of import parity pricing for domestic crude oil based on the official OPEC price. It will adopt a more flexible approach to the timing of price adjustments to take account of OPEC pricing decisions. 
Does that statement mean that domestic crude oil prices will be increased in line with future Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries prices when the OPEC increases occur? I emphasise 'when the OPEC increases occur'. Does the Government concede that OPEC prices are likely to rise again before the expiration of the financial year? If so, why did the Treasurer estimate the revenue from the levy at $2,023m when this is based exclusively upon the last OPEC price announced on 28 June this year? I ask the Prime Minister. What is the hidden estimate of receipts from the crude oil levy based on further price rises during the financial year? 
I desire to ask the Minister for National Development a question. Is it a fact that the use of petroleum products in 1977-78 was greater than forecast by his Department on a basis of comparison with figures just two years old? In particular, did motor spirit use increase by 3.7 per cent, that is, 1 per cent higher than predicted? In addition, does the Government expect to increase its excise revenue from petroleum products by 4.8 per cent this year as indicated in the Budget estimates, even though the rate of excise will remain constant? Does that mean that the Government expects the use of petroleum products, particularly petrol, to rise significantly this year? Is it a fact that these petroleum consumption forecasts reveal that the Government does not believe its own rhetoric about higher petrol prices curbing consumption? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. When the pressure is put on the Government on this question of the old oil pricing - 
I ask the Minister for National Development: Is it a fact that an energy Green Paper prepared by his Department in relation to the dramatic price flow-ons from decisions of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, said that 'in the interests of economic stability the Australian Government could decide not to immediately flow through such an increase to the price of indigenous crude oil'? Did the same Green Paper also state that a policy of phasing OPEC oil prices into the Australian price 'would not necessarily conflict with the objective of world parity pricing for indigenous crude oil"? Did the Minister support his Department and the policy advocated by his Department? If not, why not? 
-The Government's energy policy is in a shambles; but, more accurately, it does not exist. What passes for an energy policy in Australia is a mishmash of ad hoc policy statements more accurately described as Press releases. The Government's energy policy is just a giant jigsaw puzzle with every department sitting upon one piece. It is represented in the House and to the public by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)-  a tragic, incompetent ministerial figure excluded from Cabinet, torpedoed in his own policy initiatives by the major economic departments of the Government, and served by a department that has not the strength to beat off the Treasury and the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. This Government has a Minister articulating energy policy; but that Minister has a department which fails to agree with the Government's policy, and he articulates a policy for which he has no departmental support. 
Yesterday we were informed that he was abused in the Cabinet by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for failing in the energy policy area. Indeed, the whole general thrust of energy policy and support and confidence by the public, by consumers and by producers of energy are languishing under the lack of any direction by this Government. The Treasury is again preeminent in policy configuration and formulation within the Commonwealth structure. For four full years this Department has failed. No department in the Western world has had such a rein on economic policy, with a more compliant Cabinet, than the Treasury in this country has had for four years. Despite its four years it has doubled the unemployment level in Australia, has failed to contain inflation and has dragged Australia deeper into recession. Now it is running an energy policy for Australia. It has wiped out the Department of National Development. That Department cannot even produce a discussion paper on energy without its being snuffed out by the Treasury and by the inter-departmental committee run by  Mr Visbord  in the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. The gurus of everything else in the bureaucracy- the Treasury officials- are now the energy gurus of Australia. 
At Question Time today we had the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  talking about energy. All of a sudden they are all energy experts. Of course, they realise that the public now has no confidence in them. They have had four full years in office and they have not even tabled a discussion paper on energy. During Question Time today I interjected to say that that had been the case and the Minister for National Development said: 'We tabled a comprehensive policy'. This is the statement made by the Prime Minister just a couple of months ago. It was a statement made for some political cover against shortages of petroleum products when the Government was scared stiff that there would be protracted shortages, as in fact there have been in the case of avgas, dieseline and other commodities in the third and fourth quarters of the year. When one has a look at the comprehensive energy policy announced by the Prime Minister, one sees that half of it was devoted to a short term- that is the next two months- economic policy which the Government could no longer affect or have any influence upon, and that there was only a smattering of references- minor and incidental ones at that- to anything in the long term area. 
The truth is that the Treasury is suffocating every alternative area of advice to the Government, and this includes advice in the very important area of energy. The unimpeded, uninhibited market-place philosophy is supreme. The high petrol price policy of the Government is a Fraser-cum-Treasury invention, which is essentially based on the simple notion: Flog the motorists, make them pay, and hide behind the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The truth is that the Arabs increased the price of their oil and the Prime Minister of this country increases the price of Australian oil. This Government has put in the link there to put up the price of Australian oil and then try to blame it upon the Arab states. That has not curtailed consumption as the Treasury and the Prime Minister believed it would. In fact, consumption has risen quite markedly even though higher prices have been prevailing. 
At the moment consumption of petroleum products in this country is at an unprecedented high. The Government's Budget estimate of a 5 per cent increase in revenue from the excise on refined petroleum products- that is the pump tax excise which was not increased- means that the Government expects an increase of 5 per cent in the consumption of petroleum products. If we contrast that 5 per cent projection with the 2.7 per cent projected by the Minister's Department last year, what we clearly see is evidence of the argument that petroleum products are largely price inelastic. People must pay for the product; they must keep their cars running and their industries moving; and farmers must keep their machinery moving. In this regard they are caught and just have to pay the tax at the pump, in the same way as they pay tax through income tax or in any other way. The Fraser high petrol price tax is a policy which is geared essentially to raising Commonwealth revenue and is just taxation by stealth, by moving the emphasis of taxation off direct taxation and on to indirect taxation. That is all the policy is. 
The Minister for National Development tries to put across the furphy that the high petrol price tax is the right energy policy, and he castigates the Opposition for opposing this policy. Let me just take him to task. Every time he mouths these slogans he says that this policy will encourage exploration. Let me analyse that statement The truth of the matter is that in the tenement areas on the North West Shelf, which is the most likely prospect for oil exploration in Australia, the mature drillable structures off the Exmouth plateau- the deep water ones where a lot of money is being spent- are structures in respect of which there was an atmosphere of competition for the awarding of those tenement areas mainly by companies that do not produce oil in Australia. 
If the Minister's contention is right, that one must pay big money to oil producing companies presently operating and producing in Australia, why did a gaggle of exploration companies, which do not produce in Australia, bid competitively for tenement areas on the North West Shelf? They did so because of the ruling price regime which the Australian Labor Party implemented in September 1 975 which was that the Commonwealth should pay the import parity price for new discoveries of oil made after 14 September 1975. That is the price regime which is now common to the Opposition and to the Government of this country, introduced by Prime Minister Whitlam, reaffirmed by Treasurer Lynch, by Treasurer Howard and by me. That is the policy which governs exploration. Even in regard to Bass Strait, the Esso-BHP consortium has now gone to the Government and argued that the Fortescue Field in Bass Strait was a field that was found after 14 September 1975 and hence should be awarded full import parity. So, the Minister's contention that the rising of the price for old oil helps exploration, is nonsense. All it is doing - 
You have said it, you have said it and you have said it. You said it again at Question Time and I am pinning you down. 
Oh, and development. What is the development? It is a couple of marginal pools in Bass Strait. You could have done that just by increasing the price per pool and you know it. Instead of that you have given this largess to companies only producing in Australia. It is fair enough gradually to move up the price for Barrow Island and Wapet which have small reservoirs and which are coming to the end of their lives, but to argue as you are arguing that you must take the price for old oil to import parity for new exploration, is nonsense and you know it. 
Let me get onto the conservation effect. You have said that your policy will conserve petrol. 
The price of oil went up in 1973-74 throughout the Western world and consumption of petroleum products rose dramatically in all the years since. The United States of America is far more dependent on the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries now than it was before 1973-74. Even with the one year of high petrol prices operating in Australia there has been no consumption effect whatsoever. In fact, demand has gone up. If you read the  National Times  this week, you will find that consumption of avgas, dieselene and petroleum products generally has risen far beyond the capacity of the refining industry in Australia to handle it. If you talk to Shell and BP as I have, ask them for their market projections for petroleum consumption and production. They are all above estimate. They are all above a high estimate. So, your conservation line is essentially rubbish as well. 
Now, your final one is substitution. You say that this introduces substitutes. What is the difference between the Government and the Opposition on that? Certainly, a high price of fuel does allow for a substitution effect. 
It does allow for a substitution effect, but the Opposition's policy was to stay with the 1977 gradual increase in the price. Because there was a one-third complement from imports of oil which was priced at the world price- that is the price you have to buy it at- with the one-third complement going up and the twothirds domestic production gradually rising over time there would be a slow rise in the price. That is what we on this side of the House supported. In the presence of a slow rise the substitutes which were possible under a higher price could have been brought on. As it is now, the price has skyrocketed and there are no substitutes because the price went up before the infrastructure for the substitutes could be developed. 
You know there are no LPG outlets in New South Wales. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  I ask the Minister to refrain from interjecting. I remind the honourable member for Blaxland that he must refer to the Minister as the  Minister ' and not ' you ' directly. 
He is interjecting, so it is fair game. If he wants to interject he will get it back. I make the point that LPG is one of the substitutes. There are hardly any LPG outlets at all in New South Wales or in any other State bar Victoria. There are other substitutes like ethanols which are now being looked at, but they are not presently available because the price of petrol rose too quickly. If industry could have planned on a gradual price increase an infrastructure for substitutes could have been made available four or five years down the track. As it is now, the government put the price up overnight to grab revenue for itself and the substitutes are just not there. If they were there we would not have any shortages. On the substitution angle its policy is phony. On the conservation angle its policy is phony, but more particularly its exploration policy is just an outright untruth, a deception and a distortion. I nail that once and for all. Let us be clear on that. The Opposition stands for gradualism. Under the 1977 policy the government took it all to import parity and collected $2,050m for itself plus $950m under the crude oil excise. It has slugged the motorist an extra $3 billion. Let us get that clear. 
Let me get to the question ofthe Green Paper which has never appeared. One of the memorable quotes which I quoted at Question Time is this: 
. in the interests of economic stability the Australian Government could decide not to immediately flow through such an increase to the price of indigenous crude oil. 
The Green Paper went on to say: 
A phasing of the price of indigenous crude oil towards the new world parity levels may be needed. 
A phasing. That is precisely the position of the Opposition. 
Why would it be put in the Green Paper if it was useless? 
Admittedly it is an option, but why was it not an option that the Government pursued? Why did the Government not pursue the option? It did not because it had the Treasury breathing down its neck trying to grab $2,000m on the way through. The Minister went on to say that his Department also questioned the adequacy of the market in solving Australia's energy problems. The paper went on to say: 
The policy of adhering to world price levels could result in economic hardship for lower income groups and suggested relief for low income earners living on the fringes of cities. 
Has the Minister or the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  ever conceded that lower income groups, particularly people who rely on motor cars in suburbs designed exclusively for motor cars, should in any way be compensated for the slug of petrol prices? The Minister has never made any such suggestion. He has just made them pay through their pockets at the petrol pumps. Whether a man is on $100,000 a year or $5,000 a year he still pays 29.5c per litre for petrol in the capital cities without any attempt by the Government to distinguish his capacity to pay. In other words, the Minister has not in any way heeded the advice of his Department. The advice of his Department has been snuffed out by the free enterprise lunatics in the Treasury and the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. If the Minister is silly enough to let them run energy policy he does not deserve to be the Minister. 
Let me dwell on this,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I do not speak in this debate on a negative basis. I have outlined the Opposition's attitude on crude oil prices. I produced, without a bureaucracy, a 60-page Green Paper on Australian energy and minerals policy. I will read some of the headings. They include: The 'Energy Crisis'; The Problem of Liquid Fuels- Exploration, Windfall Gains, Fuel Substitution, Conservation; A Natural Gas Policy For Australia- Demand and Supply, Gas Pricing, End Use Allocation of Gas; The Contribution of Coal- Reserves, Coal Uses; and The Australian Mineral Industry. The greatest demand for this paper, of which I produced 600 copies, was from the Commonwealth bureaucracy including the Minister's own Department and the Treasury. It is the first major policy statement by a major party about energy in this country. It was not produced with a massive bureaucracy. It was produced by the Opposition because it has planned for energy policy. At the Federal Conference of the Labor Party in Adelaide we established a mechanism for policy development with a national fuel and energy commission for long-term policy development and, as an operator, an Australian hydrocarbons corporation. 
I am pleased to say that even some of the people who write for the  National Times  are reading Labor Party policy these days. They advocated on the weekend a national oil company as an instrument of long-term policy development. That is a marvellous recognition of a policy which we have had for two years, particularly for a national fuel and energy commission. So, right across the board- on energy pricing, on substitutes, on conservation, on exploration, on long-term policy development, on bringing the States, plus producers and consumers of energy into a policy development body, plus an operator- we have covered all of the fields and left the Government without a leg to stand on. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Why did the Minister for National Development say in his Press statement No. 7 1 of 1979 on 30 August that 'the outlook for further supplies of avgas from Abadan in the remainder of 1 979 is very uncertain ' when, according to his submission to Cabinet on Monday, he was advised by the Department of Foreign Affairs on 26 August, that is four days earlier, that 'there will be no exports from Iran during the remainder of 1979'? Why does he persist in playing down this chronic avgas shortage? What is he doing to overcome the shortage? Can he give the House an unequivocal assurance that adequate supplies of avgas will be available for Australian consumers for the balance of this year and beyond? 
-This is an amazing statement by the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and also an amazing report from the Uranium Advisory Council. The Government has said consistently that it intends to be responsible about uranium mining and in response to the advice which it receives from the various instrumentalities and monitoring bodies that it has established. Quite obviously, the Uranium Advisory Council is very unhappy with the kind of treatment which is being meted out to it by the Government. Quite obviously, the Government has ignored the advice of that body and in fact made decisions without reference to it. 
The Minister quite properly says that since its first meeting in January 1979 the Uranium Advisory Council has done a considerable amount of work. Obviously it has, but largely it has been in vain because that work has not benefited the Government because the Government has largely ignored the Council. 
I refer to the first report of the Uranium Advisory Council, a report which is sent to the Minister under the name of  Sir Laurence  McIntyre, a former distinguished public servant and  chairman  of this body, a man not given to this kind of expression unless there is good cause. On page 4 of its report, the Council stated:  . . we have experienced problems in ensuring that Ministers and Departments keep us informed on matters relevant to our functions. For example, at the time we visited the Northern Territory in May, a Government report concerning, inter alia, radiation levels at Nabarlek had not been referred to us. 
The report continued: 
Changes in Government policies relating to foreign investment in uranium projects, reported by the Treasurer in June when he announced the approval granted to the Yeelirrie project, is another example. 
The report continued:  . . if Council's advice to the Government is to be of use, it should be offered before decisions are made and matters should be referred to it at an early stage of debate. 
Quite obviously the Government has completely ignored this body. The Government has set up this body and then ignored it. On page 8 of the report, the Council stated: 
The Council has so far received only one formal request for advice - 
Now, so much for all the platitudinous nonsense we have heard from the Government about how it is going to monitor uranium, establish the right kinds of bodies and get the best advice! The Government has got advice and has just gone ahead and absolutely ignored it. On 7 August, the Minister announced his decision concerning the Government's intention to inquire into the sale of the Ranger project. The advice of the Council was received on 22 August. The Government has made one request only for advice from the Uranium Advisory Council. The Council's advice was tendered to the Government on 22 August. However, the Government made its decision on 7 August, 1 5 days earlier. So much for consultation and so much for having a body which should advise the Government in this area! The Minister also took the opportunity to mention that he is investigating the possibility of selling Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd. This Government is just demented about selling everything which is in the Commonwealth's name. 
I noticed the report in the newspapers today that there is again a lobby within the Government to try to sell Trans-Australia Airlines. Telecom Australia is another one which is already up for consideration as well as the Commonwealth Bank. So not only do we have the prospect of Ranger being sold but also the Deputy Prime Minister now says that he is considering selling the Government's share of Mary Kathleen, the only operating uranium mine in Australia. The Government, with all its pious platitudes about the control of the industry, is going to hop out of Mary Kathleen and leave it exclusively to private enterprise. The Opposition wants to know this: Will the Minister ask the Council's advice on this? When will he ask its advice and will he take any notice of the advice when it is given or will he just ignore it and ignore this body also? 
The report of the Uranium Advisory Council and a letter sent by it to the Minister are very interesting. The letter shows quite clearly that the members of the Council are opposed to the Government's selling its share of Ranger. On page 2 of the letter, the Council stated:  the prevailing view of the Council is that the Government should continue to retain a substantial interest in Ranger. 
It is perhaps a guarded reference that the Government should keep what it has. The Council said earlier in the letter: 
With this in mind some members feel strongly - 
That is, some members of the Uranium Advisory Council: that if a sale of the Government's holdings in Ranger is to take place it should be made to a consortium of demonstrably Australian companies. 
That is, the Government may want to sell out on Australia but obviously the bureaucrats involved in the Uranium Advisory Council are tendering advice to the Government that it should not sell Ranger. But if it does sell Ranger, it should not sell it to foreign interests - 
I take the point; they are not bureaucrats. But they are advisers to the Government and they are prepared to say to the Government that it should not sell Ranger. No doubt they will be tendering the same advice to the Government that it should not sell its holdings in the Mary Kathleen uranium venture. In its letter, the Council continued: 
At the same dme they consider that if the Government does decide not to sell, it should establish a commercial authority . . . 
That is in line with what the Australian Labor Party has been saying about splitting the Australian Atomic Energy Commission's functions and having a commercial authority to manage the commercial activities of the Commission. The Government is getting that advice from its advisers, not just from the Opposition, so it is quite reasonable for the Opposition to say that the Government has absolutely ignored the Uranium Advisory Council. The Government has broken commitments that it has given to the House to consult these bodies. The Government had decided to take tenders for Ranger before I blew the whistle on the 75 per cent-25 per cent policy which shot any prospect of the Government's selling 50 per cent of Ranger to foreign interests down the drain. Now Peko-EZ and other Australian companies are looking at the prospect of buying the other half of the deposit themselves, perhaps with a small level of foreign equity. 
Obviously the Uranium Advisory Council believes that the Government should hold to Ranger itself. The preference of the Opposition is that the Government should maintain its share of Ranger. In its letter the Uranium Advisory Council continues: 
The Council has considered the possible effects of such a sale to be: 
a delay in the development of the project; 
a loss of confidence in Australia, and particularly Ranger, as a supplier of uranium among consumer countries; 
a reduction in public confidence in environmental safety and other controls and regulations concerning uranium development, including those governing the sale of the product. 
They were the inputs, the matters which the Council considered during this discussion about Ranger. The Council makes it clear in the letter that it feels there will be a loss of confidence in Australia, that the Government pulled the rug from under its own partners under its policy and indeed has jeopardised the project. The Opposition does not intend to be mealy mouthed. We do not intend that Ranger should go ahead, but at the same time we do not believe the deposits should be sold out to international oil companies with a50 per cent interest in the Ranger deposit being taken up by foreign interests. That is what the Government considers. 
Quite obviously the Council is perturbed by the Government's insolence in completely disregarding its advice. The Government completely ignored the only report on information which it had made of this body by making an announcement some 15 days before the advice was tendered to the Government. The Council's letter also goes on to say that it regrets the equity decision on Yeerilirrie without reference to it. It makes the point that the Government should retain its share of Ranger. I add my tuppenceworth to that. The Government should maintain its share of Mary Kathleen as well. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Will the Government respond positively to representations of State governments and municipal gas utilities to reduce the price of liquefied petroleum gas consumed in regional centres throughout Australia? Is it a fact that country people are paying import parity for their gas under the Government's oil price policy, that is, at an oil equivalent of $ 18 a barrel in contrast to the $3 a barrel oil equivalent for gas being paid by the majority of consumers connected to natural gas pipelines? Will regional consumers be relieved of the Government's high regional gas price policy? Can the Prime Minister say what specific measures the Government has in mind? 
-The Opposition will be seeking to reply in detail at a later stage to the statement just made by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  It is a comprehensive and significant document. My colleague in the Senate,  Senator Walsh,  will also respond to it as the appropriate Opposition spokesman on matters for which the Minister for Primary Industry has responsibility in this House. A number of issues remain unclear. I might just point out that the Opposition's attitude to the 200-mile exclusive economic zone and to the Australian Fishing Zone was outlined by me, amongst others, at the conference held by the Australian Institute of International Affairs on 1 September this year. I presented to that conference a paper called: 'The Control and Development of Australia's Off-shore Economic Zone '. In that paper I referred to the fishing zone issue. A number of the points to which I referred in that paper have not really been covered adequately by the Minister. 
One point which I might mention at this stage is concerned with Antarctica. Australia has spent very little money on the Antarctic region. One wonders what the wisdom is of declaring for the benefit of Australia a 200-mile fishing zone off the Antarctic coast. The Minister said in his statement that the 200-mile fishing zone would be declared for Australia's Antarctic territory. Then he went on to say that these waters would be excepted waters'. I could not understand what he meant by that. I think the Government should make a full statement on its Antarctic policy and on whether it sees Australia's role in terms of some kind of exclusive fishing rights off the Antarctic coast. There is also room for the Government to expatiate on a policy on Antarctica relating to environmental problems, commercial problems and international relations, particularly in the event of the declaration of a 200-mile exclusive economic zone. In that event the prospect of mineral and energy development will loom large in the thinking of many private organisations. I think the environmental issues concerning Antarctica should be tackled before any such pressure is applied for development. The whole question of Antarctic has not been attended to adequately by the Government, and this statement does not really shed very much light on it. 
The Minister also referred to the terms and conditions for licencing foreign fishing vessels, but he did not give any details as to the kinds of terms that would be appropriate. I think that that information would be welcomed by the Opposition so that we could have an understanding of the Government's thinking on this issue. The mechanisms for negotiation and the institutional arrangements which the Government would set up to maintain ongoing discussions with other countries about fishing within Australia's 200-mile fishing zone are also matters which were not attended to in the Ministers' statement. More specifically he did not cover the kinds of trade-offs which the Government sees for the granting of fishing licences in this area, particularly to countries such as Japan. All of these issues need clarification. 
Another matter which comes to mind as being skimmed over by the Minister in his statement is the defence and surveillance problem. It is all very well to say that bilateral legal agreements buttress physical surveillance of the Australian coastal region and that the Taiwanese and Japanese fishing authorities will come to an arrangement with Australia about how the area is to be treated. But, in fact, we virtually do not have a coastal maritime surveillance capability at all. My colleague, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  has often argued that we need a unit of the Royal Australian Navy dedicated to maritime reconnaissance not only in relation to fishing but also in relation to drug running and general surveillance of areas close to our ports and all the other maritime tasks which Australia is undertaking. There is no real mention of these matters in the statement. At the moment all the Government is really saying is that it intends to declare a 200-mile fishing zone and that it will allow Australians to operate in that zone. I hope that at some time in the future Australians will operate exclusively in that zone. But for the time being the people operating in that zone will be mainly the owners of foreign fishing vessels. That might be the start, middle and finish of Australia 's off-shore fishing policy. 
I hope that the Minister's statement is a forerunner to a much more detailed and comprehensive approach by the Government. We do not want just a declaration and a proclamation of the Australian fishing zone but a code for the conduct, negotiation and practice of fishing in this area. My colleague, the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  also suggests that the legislation being brought in by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  to streamline the enforcement of penalties be applied to fishing operators who happen to infringe agreements with Australia. This is also an important matter which needs to be attended to. The surveillance question can no longer be left unattended. An island continent such as Australia with a large coastal area and which is in the throes of declaring a fishing zone- I hope that at some stage it will be a 200-mile exclusive economic zone- must be in the position of knowing what is happening around its coastal territories. Plainly that is not the position at the moment. Rather than worrying about these capital vessels and accommodating those people in the defence establishment who are trying to fit Australia up with superior kinds of vessels which would be more appropriate to military situations in other parts of the world, the Government should be concentrating on what I see as the effective task- the naval establishment may see it as a menial task- of adequate surveillance of the Australian coastal territories. This is a significant step for Australia, and if we move to establishing a 200-mile economic zone that will be even more significant. 
They are the caveats which the Opposition puts on the statement at first glance. I hope to take the opportunity in debate to reply to the statement at length. I certainly hope that the Government will list the statement for debate at some later time. Therefore, I seek leave to continue my remarks when the debate resumes. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I second the motion. The Government is obviously trying to cover up the corruption within it- Sinclair, Lynch, the Beggs family, Withers, Garland - 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  put: 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 
I second the motion. The motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  is the entirely appropriate and correct motion to be moved in the situation in which the national Parliament finds itself today. As the Leader of the Opposition has said, this issue is now 41 months old. It has been dragging on like  Blue Hills.  Despite that, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has remained inactive and inert throughout the whole process. The Prime Minister fixed the standards for ministerial behaviour when he said during the 1965 election campaign that certain standards would be met by his Government in terms of the propriety by Ministers. More recently he said: 
The community rightly demands a high standard from the Ministers of the Government. The judgments on Ministers are more exacting and sometimes more harsh than the judgments which might be passed on those outside the sphere of public life. If these high standards were not upheld, the people's confidence in government- a confidence which is fundamental to Australian democracy- would be undermined. 
That more recent statement was in relation to the dismissal of  Senator Withers.  The point is that there has been a record number of dismissals and stand-downs within the Fraser Cabinet compared with any other Cabinet in Australia's history. 
We have had a number of serious allegations. The former Treasurer was self-exonerated and exonerated by the Prime Minister. He sits in this Parliament today simply because the Victorian Government did not do what was appropriate in that situation to investigate his affairs, as was the case in New South Wales. The report which supposedly cleared him was prepared by his own barrister and never released to the public. We understand that. Everybody in politics understands it. That is why he is a dead man but will not lie down in the Fraser Cabinet. That is why nobody in Australian business takes him seriously. Despite that he has been able to remain there. 
But the same latitude was not extended to the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  who was stood down almost immediately. The honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  related a conversation between a couple of biddies in a Beaudesert hotel and, quick as a flash, the Minister was stood down from the Ministry and had to face a royal commission. On the same basis,  Senator Withers  had a conversation with the Chief Electoral Officer and in a flash he was stood down from the Ministry. Despite that the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  was entitled to remain in the Cabinet when much more serious allegations, about ministerial propriety were being made against him and despite the fact that the Prime Minister was kept informed of his involvement with these companies right throughout that period. The Prime Minister should have upheld a uniform standard of approach to this question of propriety between Ministers. I shall read from the speech that the Prime Minister made in 1975 when he was involved in a debate between the Government and the Opposition concerning the former Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  and the former Treasurer,  Dr Cairns.  The present Prime Minister said: 
The Prime Minister convicts one but protects and exonerates the other. Did the Prime Minister know of this? Does he now claim innocence of this? 
How appropriate those words are today to this Prime Minister. The Prime Minister convicts one but protects and exonerates the other. Did the Prime Minister know of this? Does he now claim innocence of this? Of course he does not. The Prime Minister, when asked on 30 August by the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  about irregularities, said: 
The Minister for Primary Industry has broadly kept me and the Leader of the National Country Party informed of the process he had put in train to correct a situation that he discovered when he became executor of his father's estate. 
That was on 30 August this year, not two or three years ago. The then Minister for Primary Industry, in a debate in June this year, had this to say: 
Let me say to this House and to the people of Australia that from the moment these irregularities first appeared, I reported them to the Prime Minister and to my own leader. I  told them of the nature and the manner in which I hoped to resolve them. I have continued that reporting. 
By the Minister's own statement he has reported the irregularities which have taken place to the Prime Minister and to his own leader. The question that remains is why was there no investigation by the Government upon those reports? The point is that  Mr Sinclair,  as the honourable member for New England, was  Mr Fraser's  Minister. He was not  Mr Finnane  's Minister nor was he  Mr Walker's  Minister. He was a Minister in the Fraser Government. Despite this fact either there has been no investigation of the fact that there were irregularities in these companies or the Prime Minister has turned a convenient blind eye to the irregularities. Alternatively he knew about the irregularities and ran dead upon them to try to brave the situation out to keep the former Minister for Primary Industry in the Cabinet. 
What amazes the Opposition is that in August 1977 the former Minister for Primary Industry made a settlement of $250,000 less costs or earnings and retained dividends with the Reliance group shareholders, which he said were the property of Sinclair Pastoral Company Pty Ltd or the property  of his father.  The net settlement was $62,000. In June of this year the settlement offered to the Reliance group shareholders was $616,000. So the figure went from $62,000 to $616,000. Despite this the Prime Minister apparently never said to the Minister, 'How come you told me that the only moneys outstanding were $62,000 net and that amount has now increased to $616,000? Why did the Prime Minister not stand down the former Minister for Primary Industry in June of this year when that settlement was made? Obviously that settlement indicated that all previous information which the Minister may have given to the Prime Minister was false and misleading. That was obviously the case because the settlement figure was very much more than what had been proposed at that time. In fact it was $5 1 5,000 higher. Despite this, nothing at all was said about the matter. 
Today the former Minister has made attacks upon the New South Wales Government and upon  Mr Finnane.  In the  Sydney Morning Herald  John Spender Q.C.- a prominent Liberaldefended  Mr Finnane  's integrity and impartiality in a letter which is now a matter of public notoriety. Despite that apparently the Prime Minister wishes to deny the New South Wales Government its rights and its prerogatives under New South Wales Law in respect of companies  incorporated  in New South Wales. In the settlement in August 1977 one of the extenuating financial matters which the former Minister referred to was the fact that he said that $45,000 was owing to his father for audit fees. In other words the former Minister claimed $45,000 from those people for an audit when he knew that his father had fixed the size of the fee without the approval of the company.  Mr Sinclair  knew that his father had never carried out an audit and he knew that the funds had been misappropriated. He admitted that fact in a tax return. Despite that fact he then claimed $45,000 audit fees. The Opposition asks: On what honourable basis could he have claimed $45,000 and on what basis did the Prime Minister accept such a claim if he were privy to the details of these charges? In his report  Mr Finnane  stated: 
I found it somewhat extraordinary that the proposition should be advanced by Ian Sinclair that his father was entitled to charge audit fees since he had systematically misappropriated moneys of the company he was allegedly auditing. Equally surprising was his proposition that his father was entitled to some recompense for the service he rendered those companies. 
Did the Prime Minister know about this? If he did, let him tell us the details of his discussion with the former Minister for Primary Industry and let the former Minister tell us on what basis he claims $45,000 audit fees or $187,000 of retained dividends, which he then further claimed? 
The right honourable member went on to attack the Finnane inquiry in the most miserable way today by alleging that it was a political put-up. The truth is that the inquiry was an investigation that arose from public notoriety about the affairs of three companies incorporated in New South Wales. The New South Wales Government was completely entitled to hold an investigation in order to establish whether the Sinclair family or the Sinclair Pastoral Company Pty Ltd had in fact misappropriated moneys from these three companies. These have been matters of public notoriety for 41 months. They were first raised by the former Leader of the Opposition and were successively raised in this Parliament over that period. Despite that, the Prime Minister has determined to tough it out. He would not at any stage stand the then Minister down even though he knew that there were serious allegations against him. When a settlement of $616,000 was offered in June of this year- obviously to buy the Reliance group shareholders off the right honourable member's back- that settlement was very much more than was originally proposed two years previously. So on what basis did the Prime Minister leave  Mr Sinclair  in his Cabinet? There can be three reasons for that. Either the Prime Minister was not aware of what was happening, or he decided to cover up, or he just did not want to lose a friend from the Cabinet. The power of the squattocracy prevailed over ministerial propriety.  His  camaraderie with the former Minister for Primary Industry, as a couple of flash-jack graziers, was to be more important than the propriety of his Government and his responsibilities to the Australian electorate. 
Prime Minister Fraser has failed his own Party and his own Government. He has discriminated against Liberal Party Ministers in favour of National Country Party Ministers. The Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  would have taken a much closer interest in these affairs. He has failed his own Party also and he has failed to recommend the standing down of this Minister. Do not let him be exonerated from the matter. Prime Minister Fraser has run out on a clear commitment, made to the Australian public in the 1975 election campaign, to observe standards of ministerial propriety. The Prime Minister has run out on further commitments he made in the Parliament and he has turned a blind eye to serious allegations of impropriety against one of his own Ministers. Despite the fact of his claims about relying upon the New South Wales Government investigation there is the question of tax losses claimed as misappropriations. That concerns the Prime Minister's own Government, his own finances, and his own Treasury. Despite that fact there has been no obvious investigation of the status of the former Minister for Primary Industry in respect of the allegedly fraudulent tax claims to the Commissioner of Taxation. 
Prime Minister Fraser has let down the Australian Parliament and the Australian public. He has protected a man with a serious cloud hanging over him concerning alleged serious financial misappropriations. By doing that the Prime Minister has besmirched the Parliament and his own Government and he deserves the contempt and censure of this House. 
-I would like to concentrate for a few minutes on something related to what the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie),  had to say in respect of motor vehicles. I wish to speak on the question of what fuels motor vehicles and the kind of tax-take the Government is taking from petrol. The Government has spread the misnomer that it is a low tax party, whereas it is a very high tax party. In fact, it is the party of the highest taxation in Australian history. The Budget documents demonstrate this. On the basis of Commonwealth receipts as a proportion of gross domestic product this is also very clearly demonstrated. In the last three years the Government has moved to tax by stealth, by taking the emphasis away from direct taxation- although that has not decreased in real terms by anything like the amount indicated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser);  it has, in fact, risen- and shifting the emphasis across to indirect taxation. 
In the last Budget we saw massive increases in the prices of petrol, beer, spirits and tobacco. For instance, the price of a bottle of whisky went from $5 to $11 overnight. In the period of the Fraser Government the price of petrol has gone up by 60c a gallon or, if one has a vehicle with an average size tank of about 12 gallons, by an extra $7.20 a tank. That is not $7.20 a tank; it is an extra $7.20 a tankful. Every time a motorists fills up his car's tank he pays an extra $7.20 per tank of petrol. That represents a massive impost in taxation over a period of 12 months. Whether one pays it through one's wage packet or at the petrol pump, it is still a tax. Similarly, the health arrangements once were much more generous from the Commonwealth to the public. Now the public has to pay all of the costs, whether by way of weekly tax or to some health insurance fund. If one is not insured and one pays the doctor without a reimbursement, one has a tax imposted. Therefore, in respect of health, the Government has tried to shift these taxes out of the Budget structure. In respect of petrol, it has levied severe imposts upon the motorist. 
This year Australians will spend about $3,000m on petrol. Of that amount, about $2,500m will go directly to the Commonwealth Government by way of royalties, excises, et cetera. On top of that, the Commonwealth has always levied what it calls the refined product excise, which is the ordinary pump tax. This year the pump tax alone comes up to $950m. If one adds to the $2, 500m which is coming from the other taxes on petrol, the pump tax revenue of $950m, the total tax-take from one commoditypetroleum and petroleum products, but particularly petrol- is $3,450m or almost $3te billion. That represents 1 1 per cent of total budgetary receipts. So the Fraser Government is now getting 1 1 per cent of its receipts from one commodity alone. This is having a very heavy impact upon the Australian motorist, upon inflation, because the cost of fuel goes right through the economy, and particularly upon the rural community, which of course is subject to heavy fuel costs. 
The political impact of higher energy prices, particularly in the rural sector, was not driven home to the Government last year because it was a relatively good season and the weather was very kind to us. This year will probably be a reasonable season as well. What is going to happen is that as time goes on the price of fuel will cripple Australian agriculture. The responsibility for these very savage imposts rests squarely with the Fraser Government. In addition to that, the ordinary motorist who for years has had a sixcylinder car- the six-cylinder medium compact that does something like 16 to 20 miles to the gallon is a sort of standard Australian family car- will suffer a very heavy impost. There will be a heavy impost for families, and it will be far more savage for commercial travellers, taxi operators and others who do a very high mileage. 
To add insult to injury, it is one thing when people pay tax to the Government, but it is another thing when the Government tries to escape the blame. The Fraser Government has tried to say that this is all the fault of the Arabs, that it is the Arabs who are fixing the price. Of course, that is wrong. The Arabs fix the price of Arab oil; the Australian Government fixes the price of Australian oil. Two-thirds of our oil requirements are produced in Australia and only one-third of them are imported. I admit that we have to pay the price of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries- the Arab price- for the one-third of our requirements which is imported. 
We were paying $2 a barrel for the oil produced in this country. We are now paying $18.66 a barrel. We are now paying the full world price or the Arab price for Australian oil. One might ask: Why are we paying the Arab price for Australia oil? The simple answer is that the Fraser Government has a linking mechanism pushed into the pricing system so that as soon as the Arab price moves the Australian price moves with it. Then the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Government blame OPEC. Of course, the public sees television coverage of OPEC meetings in Abu Dhabi, Geneva and other places and sees in the newspapers the simple banner headline 'Arabs put up the price of petrol 60c a gallon' or something to that effect and the public then believes mistakenly that the Arabs are the people who have put up the price of Australian oil. The truth is that the Prime Minister has put up the price of Australian oil. 
What we have seen is tax by stealth. It is not a means of taxation where the Government is at the forefront saying: 'We are going to collect another $2,500m in petrol tax from you'. What it is saying is that it will collect that tax, blame the increase in tax on the Arab states and hope that the Australian public will be duped into believing that OPEC fixes the price of Australian oil rather than the Canberra-based Commonwealth Government. So all of that money is being paid through the petrol pumps. It is like having a branch of the Taxation Office at every petrol station. What happens is that the money collected by the petrol station proprietor is sent back to the refineries. The refineries then pay the producer- Esso-BHP- which sends a great slab in excise back to the Australian Government. It is the greatest tax lurk in history. It proves over and over again that this Government does not stand for tax reform; it stands for increasing taxes. It does not stand for axing taxes, as somebody said recently. This whole question needs to be reviewed. 
Where does the Australian Labor Party stand on this question? The Labor Party in government will break the nexus between the price of Australian oil and the OPEC or Arab price of oil. It will break the nexus with import parity pricing, as the expression is. The effect of that will be that petrol will be cheaper under a Labor government than it is under the present government. We are powerless to change the price of the onethird of our requirements of oil which is imported. The price of that oil will continue to rise. But if the price of the two-thirds Australian production did not rise, as it would not under Labor, the price of petrol would be lower under Labor than it is under the present Government. A future Labor government will break the nexus, and therefore reduce the inflationary impost of higher petrol prices without losing anything at the same time. 
The Government has said that the maintenance of this nexus is encouraging exploration. That is just not right. Both the major parties in the Parliament believe in the policy introduced by the Whitlam Government in September 1 975 to pay import parity prices for oil produced from new discoveries in Australia. That is the current policy of both parties; that is the ruling price regime. In other words, if an oil company discovered a pool of oil, say, off Western Australia, that oil would automatically be priced at import parity. The reasoning behind that is that that is the price we have to pay for oil if we did not have our own supplies, so why not pay it to the Australian companies and then tax them on the difference in price? Rather, the Government is now making us pay the full price for oil which is produced from oilfields discovered ten years ago- oilfields which already have production facilities and which were producing oil in Australia at around $ 1 a barrel. 
I do not think the Australian public understands that the Bass Strait oilfield- Bass Strait is the largest old oilfield in Australia- produces oil at around $ 1 a barrel and that the difference between $1 a barrel and $18.66 a barrel, which is the current price, represents a mixture of what the Government wants to take and what it wants to give the companies. That mixture presently works out as follows: The companies get $5 a barrel from which they deduct about $ 1 for extraction costs and production costs. That leaves them $4. They then pay $2 company tax. So the companies get $5 a barrel and the balance goes to the Government. One can see the heavy grab made by the Fraser Government into the pockets of the Australian motorist. 
Under Labor that situation would not continue; it would be stopped. Therefore, this whole furphy that Labor would stop exploration by changing that policy is nonsense because we still believe in the policy of import parity on new discoveries; that is, by definition, new fields of oil discovered after 14 September 1975. That takes account of new exploration. We are really only talking about how an existing low cost oilfield is treated for price and taxation- whether one leaves the price at $2.10 a barrel, as it was, or whether one takes the price to $ 1 8.66 a barrel. This Government has lunged right in and taken the lot. We are saying that we will reduce the price that the Australian public pays for old oil but that we will be maintaining the policy of import parity on new fields yet to be discovered so that in the future we will have an adequate supply of oil and petrol to keep our cars running. The Government's claim that it must charge this price to find new oil is just bunkum. 
Let me turn to the other incidental question of liquefied petroleum gas. Liquefied petroleum gas- butane and pentane- is produced in two ways in Australia. It is produced from refineries and it is produced, as it is called, naturally occurring, that is, as a by-product of the oil production facilities in Bass Strait, Barrow Island and Moonie- at those three places in Australia. Liquefied petroleum gas is the material which is used in cigarette lighters, in campervan burners and in commercial applications. It is now used in automotive applications. Many taxis are using LPG, as it is called. The other application of LPG is for town gas in all of the provincial cities of Australia which are not connected to gas pipelines, such as Orange, Bathurst, Lithgow and Parkes in New South Wales and Bendigo in Victoria. In all of these places the gas used for domestic cooking and for commercial heating is liquefied petroleum gas which is brought to those centres by ordinary road tankers and then reticulated through the system. 
The price of that gas has gone up from $52 a tonne two years ago to $ 147 a tonne. That means that there has been a 300 per cent increase in the price of liquefied petroleum gas. The liquefied petroleum gas produced in refineries in Australia is coming out at that price because under the Government's policy the refineries have to pay full import parity for the oil which goes in as feed stock. The crude oil which goes into the refineries as feed stock and which produces the liquefied petroleum gas goes in at the import parity price. Therefore, the price of the LPG which comes out has to be in line with that price. That means that the price of the naturally occurring Bass Strait LPG has to be priced similarly, otherwise people will buy that LPG and will not take to the refinery LPG. We would then have a situation similar to that which we saw earlier in the year when the BP Australia Ltd refinery in Melbourne was flaring the LPG at night, resulting in a 200-feet flame above its refinery. Any energy policy which advocates doing that is, of course, a very silly one. 
The Government has locked Australia into high energy prices. One of the spin-offs of that is that the people in the rural centres of Australia that I just mentioned who turn on the gas at home to cook their evening meals or to warm their houses are now paying three times the price they paid previously. I will give an idea of the sort of situation I am talking about. If a person living in Melbourne turns on a gas cooking stove or a heater for warmth the gas comes from the pipeline that is connected to Victoria. In the case of a person who lives in Sydney the pipeline is connected to Adelaide. Such a person buys that gas at $3 a barrel oil equivalent. People in country towns buy liquefied petroleum gas at a price of $ 1 8 a barrel oil equivalent. People who get gas from pipelines from the major gas producing centres get it at about one-sixth of the price that the people in rural towns have to pay. This is another consequence of the Government's policy. People in country towns are complaining about it. They are saying to the Government: 'We want you to reduce the price of liquefied petroleum gas.' The Government, particularly the National Country Party which represents some of these areas, is starting to panic about this. It wants to reduce the price of liquefied petroleum gas but if it does so its whole policy will fall to pieces. The Government has a policy which it claims produces substitution of energy but when that substitution process starts to take place it is scared. It runs away from its policy and wants to subsidise prices. The whole substitution effect of the policy then falls to bits. 
The policy is then a naked revenue grabbing policy for high oil prices. 
The Government is caught in a cleft stick. It has put up the price of oil and, therefore, the price of LPG has gone up. If it were to lower the price of town LPG the substitution effect of its policy would fall down. It is the substitution and conservation effect that the Government is using to try to rationalise its policy. There would have to be virtually a bottomless pit of subsidies to keep the price of LPG in some kind of loose equality with the price of natural gas coming out of pipelines. The Government is hoist with its own petard. The high cost of energy is starting to hurt. Well it might. The Government's policy is designed to fund the Budget deficit. The Government's obsession with funding the Budget deficit has led to a $2,000m increase in oil prices. The Prime Minister and his Cabinet thought that this was the quickest, best and slipperiest way of getting $2,000m without the public really knowing where the money came from. At every petrol pump and gas cooker in rural Australia a tax man is taking money from people and sending it back to Canberra. 
This is the highest tax Government in Australia's history. That fact has to be brought home to the Australian public very clearly. In the three years of a Labor Government, average Commonwealth outlays were about 27 per cent of gross domestic product. In the present Budget Commonwealth outlays are 3 1 per cent of gross domestic product. That is the only way to look at Commonwealth outlays over a period of time in real terms. It is no good looking at inflationary dollars because inflation does all kinds of things to figures. We must look at Commonwealth outlays in terms of the gross domestic product of the country. In the three years of the Labor Government, Commonwealth outlays were 27 per cent of the gross domestic product. They are now 3 1 per cent of gross domestic product under the present Government. This is a big spending, high tax Government, it has placed the burden of tax on indirect taxes. The worst thing about that is that the man on a low income has to pay 29.5c per litre for his petrol which is the same price as a man earning $200,000 a year pays. In other words, the tax does not discriminate as to capacity to pay. Worse still, the lifting of the surcharge by the Prime Minister and the Government in this Budget has meant that the money which goes back to these people on low incomes is less than the amount that goes back to high income earners. Everybody pays an equal amount of tax regardless of income but the people on the highest incomes get the biggest payback. That is the kind of tax equity people get from the Fraser Government. The burden of taxation has been shifted from direct tax to indirect tax. This is a massive tax grab across the board. The Australian public should say no to higher petrol taxes. The next Labor Government will break the nexus between Arab oil prices and import parity. It will give Australians some benefit from their natural resources, one of which happens to be our natural oil and gas fields. 
I respond briefly on behalf of the Opposition by joining with the Government in congratulating the finalists in the first stage of the Parliament House design competition, John Bickerdike, John Denton, Colin Madigan, Richard Thorp and Christopher Waite. I also congratulate the other prize-winners and the assessors who have served the Parliament so ably and given of their time so freely. I refer to  Sir John  Overall, the  Chairman, Mr John  Andrews,  Senator Gareth  Evans,  Mr I.  M. Pei,  Mr Barry  Simon, a member of this House, and Professor Leonard Stevens. All members of the Parliament are indebted to these gentlemen who have served on the assessors committee and who in the last couple of weeks have had the very laborious and onerous duty of choosing the first stage finalists from a great number of designs submitted. 
The Joint Committee on the New and Per.mananent Parliament House settled upon a twostage competition after consultation with the Royal Australian Institute of Architects simply because the Parliament wanted a building which was attractive but functional and which would actually work well for the people who would occupy and work within it given the vast period that the building would be required to serve the Parliament. The design formula was an unusual one which was adopted for this very specialist and specific task. I think most people will agree that it works. The difficulty has always been to maintain the anonymity of designers from their designs so that a fair assessment could be made by the assessors of the final design in stage 2 of the competition or, in stage 1, the final designers. The parliamentary committee was interested in securing not only a designer with some flair for design but also, more importantly, an architect who could work with the Parliament House Construction Authority and the users of the new Parliament House, ourselves, to develop a building concept which was attractive and functional. The Opposition is very pleased about the fact that the competition was very wide, involving international architects. We are exceptionally pleased about the fact that 60 per cent of the 10 finalists are Australian. 
The design competition will now move to the second stage. From the five designs there will finally emerge one successful design and a designer. At that stage of course the steering committee- which the parliamentary subcommittee has established- will meet with the five finalists to reinforce upon those finalists the subtleties of the design brief and the requirements of a parliament house building. It has been heartening that both sides of the Housethe Government and the Opposition- have seen fit on this occasion to work in harmony and in a completely bipartisan way to get this building built. I think that is a tribute to common sense. This building has long outlived its usefulness. A start had to be made on a permanent building. There is a marked difference between the final design brief and the design brief of 1971. I am glad that we are not building the parliament house which was envisaged then by that design brief but a far more generous one as a result of the delay in time which has taken account of the new functions of parliament house, the staff of members of Parliament and the expanded work role of the Parliament. Therefore, we will probably have a much more functional building. 
I would also take this occasion to pay tribute to the media which have also played a very constructive role in this matter, not only in the design of the media section of the design brief but also for the fact that they took a very constructive attitude towards the establishment of the initial phases of this building construction. The Opposition appreciates the contribution which has already been made and which will be made in much greater measure by the Parliament House 
Construction Authority, the members of which will serve quite some time now- I think over 6Vi years- to see the final building established and to translate into a three dimensional sense what was the designer's dream on paper. That is always a very hard thing to do, particularly with a very finicky customer. I think it is important that the Parliament as the final customer has the opportunity to approve the design, to make contributions to the design and to have a say before the building is built. That provision has been made by the Parliament House Committee. I think the members of Parliament, in both the House of Representatives and the Senate, should be pleased with the work of that Committee. 
I have served on a number of joint parliamentary committees, but there has been none more useful that the Committee which developed the design brief for this building, the New and Permanent Parliament House Committee. It has been a most constructive effort. As you said earlier this evening,  Mr Speaker,  there was not a cross word exchanged in all of the years we have been sitting, almost weekly now, almost every Wednesday at lunch time in each sitting week since 1 976. It is a great tribute to the members of that Committee that they have persisted with this concept. I pay tribute also to the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  who had the onerous duty of selling this proposal to Cabinet and to my own leader and  deputy  leader who so magnanimously accepted the spirit of the proposal. 
I hope Australia finally has a building befitting the aspirations of this young country and, as the major building of the capital of Australia, to cap and to seal the federation and the movement towards federation which began so long ago. Speaking for members of Parliament, I hope that we have finally a functional, attractive buildingnot a piece of packing case architecture that does not work- befitting the importance of this national capital and one which many members will be happy to serve in for many years in the future. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Jarman)  adjourned. 
I ask the Prime Minister: In view of the fact that the Government has now abandoned its 75 per cent Australian equity policy in respect of Yeelirrie and Roxby Downs for what it deems to be special circumstances and given that no manufactured special circumstance can exist with Ranger, will he assure the House that the Ranger deposit will be maintained in Australian hands at least to the level of 75 per cent local ownership in accordance with the Government's definitive foreign investment policy statement of 1 976? 
I ask the Prime Minister a question about uranium. I refer him to the fact that approval has been given for the development of the Ranger, Nabarlek, Yeelirrie and Roxby Downs uranium deposits- that is, excluding Pancontinental Mining Ltd- and that production from the first three mines will reach 8,000 tonnes per annum by 1985 with at least a further 3,000 tonnes from Roxby Downs. Given that the Australian Atomic Energy Commission estimates of annual world demand for uranium have dropped from 115,000 tonnes in 1973 to 54,000 tonnes in 1978 and that the surplus in world uranium production will be more than 30,000 tonnes a year by 1985, does this not mean that Australian uranium will be in acute oversupply and will be sold into a buyers market with tumbling prices and safeguards deterioration? Will the Prime Minister confirm that not one new uranium contract has been entered into since 1972? Will he confirm that the one small prospect of sales to the Philippines is now receding and that the only other likely prospect at the moment is for modest sales to Britain? Finally, will he expatiate upon his Government's bullish assessments for Australian uranium sales by telling the Parliament precisely where all this uranium is to be sold? May I ask respectfully that the answer be based upon fact and not upon rhetoric? 
I would like to raise a couple of matters tonight which were raised in the Estimates Committee in respect of natural gas policy in Australia, and of the North West Shelf in particular, to which the Government gave, to say the least, very inadequate replies. If there is one thread running through the Opposition's policy on energy in this country it is the belief that Australia could maximise its energy opportunities through natural gas. Australia is a gas prone continent. The range of temperatures and pressures which produce hydrocarbons, particularly oil and gas, are much wider for gas than they are for oil. Given the geology of the continent, the likelihood is that there is a lot of undiscovered gas in Australia. If we maximise our opportunities in respect of natural gas, we could find that all of our major industrial cities have what is, by world standards, a luxurious supply of energy for at least 25 to 30 years on a moving index basis. 
When one looks at Australia's natural gas position, one finds that New South Wales has a contract for 30 years to the year 2005 for gas supplies from the Cooper Basin in South Australia. Melbourne, and Victoria, have a gas supply for about the same time with an option over further reserves. There is a problem with South Australia with the likelihood that it will have a two trillion cubic feet gas shortfall between 1984 and 2005. This shortfall could be made up from the Cooper Basin or alternatively with a pipeline from Gippsland from the Bass Basin. The position with Queensland, and Brisbane in particular, which has a low gas demand because it has a fairly temperate climate and a small industrial base, is that it will have a cumulative gas demand between now and the turn of the century of about 0.5 to 0.63 trillion cubic feet of gas. It is possible that some exploration in the Surat Basin may cover that shortfall or alternatively authorities in Brisbane could gasefy liquefied petroleum gas or take gas from coal. 
The picture for south eastern Australia looks fairly good. If we can find two trillion cubic feet for Adelaide, all of the major east coast demand centres of Australia will have a 25 to 30 year gas supply. Hence any talk about building a transcontinental pipeline at this stage to link Western Australia to the south eastern portion of the continent, where the area of gas demand is, would be highly premature and at this stage it would be a commercially silly decision. The only other area of mainland Australia which needs to be attended to- leaving Tasmania out at this stage- is the gas demand in Perth and in Western Australia. It is on this topic that I should like to spend the next few minutes. Both sides of the Parliament are committed to the concept of exports of gas from the North West Shelf of Australia, that is, from the North Rankin Trend and the Carnarvon Basin. 
The Australian Labor Party at its national conference held in Perth in 1977, decided as its policy that it would allow gas exports from the North West Shelf, enough to justify development expenditure, but not more than should be allowed in the national interest. That national interest of course is Australia's cumulative domestic demand. Because the south-eastern part of the continent is pretty well fixed for gas- if we adopt the right conservation and exploration policies- we really need to attend to the Western Australian demand position. We find that there has been a lot of talk there about how much gas there is in Western Australia. In fact there has been quite a lot of optimistic, baseless and senseless discussion about the level of gas reserves there. The levels of gas reserves there are quite healthy; nevertheless they are not there so that one can adopt senseless policies about their development. I shall read from the Australian Natural Gas Utilisation and Transportation Study which was prepared for the Pipeline Authority in October 1976 by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation and the Societe Francaise d 'Etudes et de Realisations d'Equipements Gaziers, the French SOFREGAZ group. They looked at two basic case studies for exports in the North West Shelf area. On page 19 of that report it is stated: 
Two levels of LNG - 
That is, liquefied natural gas- export were considered to examine the first effect. A highlevel contract of 6.3 trillion cubic feet of exports over 20 years requiring 7 trillion cubic feet of natural gas feed to the LNG plant, was studied in Case 2. 1 . 2. This quantity plus the best estimate of consumption of gas in Western Australia (4 trillion cubic feet) make a total consumption which is roughly equivalent - 
I emphasise the words 'roughly equivalent'- to the best estimate of recoverable reserves on the North West Shelf. 
In other words, they are saying that 6.7 trillion cubic feet of exports plus 4 trillion cubic feet of domestic reserves cuts the whole North West Shelf reserve right out. That is still the position. The first contract of gas for Western Australia would be for a maximum of 370 cubic feet a day over 20 years. That comes to a cumulative 2.7 trillion cubic feet over that period. The export level which the Government has approved for the North West Shelf and with which the Opposition concurs is 53 per cent of the North Rankin Trend, which equals 6.7 trillion cubic feet in the ground. That 2.7 trillion cubic feet already committed for Western Australia plus the 6.7 trillion cubic feet in the ground comes to 9.4 trillion cubic feet. That 9.4 trillion cubic feet is the very limit of the proven category of reserves on the North West Shelf. Any assessment above that such as assessment by Woodside-Burmah Oil NL of 13.56 trillion cubic feet or the Bureau of Mineral Resources' assessment of 11.2 trillion cubic feet, or even the Mines Handbook assessment of 17.2 trillion cubic feet- is really in the probable category, not the proven category. That is the case once we get above about 9.4 trillion cubic feet. 
If we want to go along with a very rapid development of the export potential- we are not talking about the totality of reserves committed to export, but the rate of production- we find that Western Australia's domestic gas supplies could be in jeopardy. They could be in jeopardy on the basis that Western Australia will need a gas supply in excess of 250 million cubic feet a day about five years after the commencement of the project. If the project starts in 1984, by about 1990 Western Australian demand could be running greatly ahead of the levels of gas committed to it, yet there would be no opportunity to get an additional gas supply if the North West Shelf starts to operate with exports of 6.5 million tonnes of gas a year. 
In Perth about a month ago I floated the idea that the consortium ought to start up the project on a two-trains basis of exporting about 4.4 million tonnes and move to 6.5 million tonnes after it was in a position to be able to offer the State of Western Australia another 2 trillion cubic feet of gas, or about another 250 million cubic feet a day over 20 years. If we were to find ourselves in that happy position we could move with absolute assurance to exporting 6.5 million tonnes and see the project extend to the export of 6.7 trillion cubic feet in the ground, with which both the major parties agree. The issue tends to get down to the fact that maybe we are a bit hasty in assuming that Western Australia is sitting upon a huge reserve of gas when that, in fact, is not the case. In 1975 the reserves in the North West Shelf were about the same as they are now. There has been no real addition. The fields around North Rankin, Goodwyn, Angel, Egret and these others need to be explored. 
The Opposition stands firmly in support of the North West Shelf export project, but it demands of the Government that it guarantee to the State of Western Australia an adequate supply of gas through to the year 2000 or 2005, to put it in the same position as the other eastern coast cities of 
Australia, so that its industrial base will have an adequate gas supply and give it a level of energy independence which will be almost unparalleled in the world. That cannot be jeopardised by any plans by any corporate group to export a level of gas at an earlier stage rather than a later stage, which would happen to put that independence in jeopardy. 
I ask a question of the Minister for National Development. Is it a fact that Australia's membership of the International Energy Agency- a membership which the Opposition vigorously opposed and continues to oppose- will spread the burden of world oil cutbacks from Iran upon Australia as a member country of that organisation, even though Australia relies upon Iran for only a very small proportion of its oil requirements? In other words, will Australian supplies of imported oil from countries other than Iran be jeopardised because of Australia's IEA oil sharing arrangements and its membership of the organisation? Does the Government now concede that it was sold a pup with membership of the IEA and that we should pull out of it forthwith? 
I refer the Minister for National Development to his remarks to the Australian Institute of Energy on 12 October this year when he stated: 
Foremost amongst the decisions that have had to be taken by the Commonwealth is the move to price crude oil at the import parity price . . . A return to lower price levels is simply unrealistic. 
I also refer the Minister to the statement of the Prime Minister in his energy policy statement of 27 June. He said: 
The Government reaffirms its policy of import parity pricing for domestic crude oil based on the official OPEC price. 
I ask the Minister Does the Government still stand by this policy? 
-Did the Minister for Trade and Resources see reports of the sale by Consolidated Goldfields Australia Ltd of its 65 per cent interest in Bellambi Coal Co. Ltd to the Shell Co. of Australia Ltd and Mcllwraith McEachern Ltd? Is this purchase by Shell just another step in Shell's acquisition of Australian coal enterprises? Does it represent a further domination of our national coal resources by the international oil majors? Is the Minister alarmed at this trend? If so, will the Government positively discriminate against international oil majors or their affiliates aggregating blocks of Australian coal? Does the Minister agree that the alternative would be to allow the international oil majors to dominate our future coal trade in the same way as they dominated the Middle East oil trade? Finally, will the Government refuse permission for this sale? 
-Am I to understand from the fact that Government supporters did not rise that they approve of the rapid alarming penetration into the Australian coal industry by the international oil majors and the continuing alienation of Australia's sovereignty over its coal trade? By not standing, apparently they approve of it and, of course, they will sit by and watch it accelerate. There was a time not long ago when the international oil majors dominated the Middle East oil trade. Economic nationalism in those countries brought about a change in ownership and control over the vital product those countries were producing. What we have witnessed in the last few years is a shift in the profit area of oil companies from the production end to the refining and distribution end of the business. Coupled with this, dramatic increases in the world price of oil have produced massive increments to the oil companies' profits which have made them more liquid than at any other time in their history. These two factors have brought the oil companies to the realisation that their future is not only in oil but also in other energy and mineral commodities, and we have witnessed a substantial move by the oil majors into the resource rich countries of the world, especially the English speaking countries such as Canada, the United States and Australia. 
Recently the major United States oil companies declared their profits for the third quarter of this calendar year, that is for June to September, and the results showed a staggering increase. Exxon, the world's largest and most famous multinational corporation, brought its earnings to a record United States level of $ 1,140m, double that for the third quarter of last year. That is for a quarterly figure. Mobil's quarterly profit went up by 130 per cent to $600m and Gulf Oil's profit doubled to $420m. These companies are awash with lazy money and the clear focus of their attention is coal and other energy commodities as well as oil. There is, therefore, a very great interest in Australia particularly, given the size of Australia's coal reserves which have been placed at about 36,000 million tonnes. 
Australia is a small producer of coal by world standards, but a significant exporter. Australia's coal exports are running at about 38 million tonnes, 34 million tonnes of which is coking coal and 4 million tonnes steaming coal. Coking coal exports are expected to rise to between 45 and 50 million tonnes a year by 1985 and steaming coal exports to over 15 million tonnes. Australia is poised to be a major force in the world coal trade, especially in steaming coal. This had become apparent to the major international oil companies, particularly those operating in Australia, some years ago and we have seen a concerted attempt by those companies to reserve for themselves blocks of Australian coal. 
This week we have seen reported the sale by Consolidated Gold Fields Australia Ltd of 64.8 per cent of its stake in Bellambi Coal Co. Ltd to the Shell Co. of Australia and Mcllwraith McEachern Ltd. Shell said, on Monday of this week, that it aims at a 49 per cent stake in the company. Shell is one of the companies which is operating under a systematic policy of buying into Australian coal. A couple of years ago it bought 37 per cent of the New South Wales collier Austen and Butta Ltd. At that time it paid a substantial premium on the market value of the shares, as well as committing $20m in loan funds to the company. It paid more than any other Australian company would have been prepared to pay and so it succeeded in acquiring that equity. 
Shell is the dominant holder in Capricorn Coal, the developer of the valuable German Creek deposit in the Bowen Basin in Queensland. German Creek will be the first major mine to be developed in Queensland after Utah 's Norwich Park project. German Creek is a $400m coking coal mine which will probably come on stream about mid- 1982. Whilst Shell does not have a majority holding in this project, with Austen and Butta also holding 26 per cent of the shares it will be able to exercise effective control. Shell also has 49 per cent of a joint venture with Theiss to develop the Drayton region of the Hunter Valley in New South Wales. It also has 16.6 per cent interest in Theiss Holdings, the other major coal producer in Queensland besides Utah. 
On top of this it currently has an extensive coal exploration program. The company will argue that it is under Australian management, and I would recognise that fact. I have respect for Shell and for its  Chairman, Sir Leslie  Froggatt, but the beneficial ownership is foreign and nothing will change that fact. That is what we object to, the pursuit - 
So what? Another sell-out. So what? Sell your country out. Atlantic Richfield has 32 per cent of the NSW collier R. W. Miller, and 38 per cent of the rich Blair Athol steaming coal deposit in Queensland. British Petroleum owns 100 per cent of Clutha Development, a NSW collier, 49 per cent of the Clarence colliery and, for good measure, 50 per cent of Roxby Downs, one of the largest copper/ uranium mineralisations in the world. Esso Australia Ltd has 25 per cent of the Hail Creek project but this is only an appetiser for this essentially petroleum oriented company. Houston Oil and Minerals has a 90 per cent interest in the Oaky Creek deposit in Queensland. There are others, such as Total in the Wambo colliery in New South Wales. They are almost two numerous to mention; 
The spread of foreign control in the Australian minerals picture is far more extensive than I have indicated in the case of coal. Many international companies, oil companies included, are moving into the non-ferrous metals area as well as into energy. The present coalition Government has been impotent when dealing with this problem and, judging by the answer I received yesterday from the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  the Consolidated Gold Fields sale to Shell will be approved under the existing foreign investment policy. There is no doubt that 49 per cent comes within the parameters of the existing foreign investment policy, but there is also no doubt that the decisions of the new Bellambi Board will need to be unanimous. Because Shell has the money, the effective control of the project will fall to Shell. 
The question the Opposition poses is: Should international oil companies be allowed to buy our resources on the basis that they can pay the highest price? The answer should be clearly no. Companies like Bellambi Coal, with their existing operations and future prospects, should be held in Australian hands. 
It seems that on the issue of who owns Australia, the Labor Party is the sole sentry at the gate. The Country Party, under the leadership of  Mr Anthony  has shifted from the manufacturing industry associations which the Country Party developed under  Sir John  McEwen's leadership and  Sir John's  concern about buying back the farm in the mineral sector. The present leader of the Country Party sees his role as doing what the companies want. He will always make a glib case for foreign investment, and the theme would more likely be development at any price. 
But  Mr Anthony's  negligence does not excuse the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or the Liberal Party. Their role- the Prime Minister's role and the role of his party- should be the maximisation of the national benefit from the development of Australia's natural resources. That benefit can be realised only when there is a growing level of Australian corporate ownership in the minerals and energy sectors. There is no thought by the Government to maximising the benefits or equitably sharing the wealth. All we get from this Government is the gung ho political rhetoric of how many million dollars worth of projects are in the pipeline- and might I say the pipeline has been four years long. All we hear are the same noises about the same projects that we were hearing about four years ago. 
The problem with foreign investment is that it is addictive and a time is reached when the repatriated funds are so great that one has to keep a steady stream of capital inflow to redress the imbalance. It can be valuable- indeed it has been valuable- but it must be taken in moderation. This Government does not understand moderation; it does not understand the concept of the national interest; it does not understand loyalty to fellow Australian citizens; it is subservient to big international money. It is a foolish government; it is an intellectually corrupt government; and it is an incompetent government. 
Perhaps one could be more understanding of the Government's position if it had a more comprehensive taxation policy in place such as a resource tax and graduated withholding tax where appropriate. But it does not. On coking coal it reduced the coal export levy from $6 a tonne to $3.50 a tonne. So even with exceptionally profitable ventures it has not attempted to maximise the benefits to the Australian people. It does not distinguish between Australian and foreign capital in respect of its tax laws and it accepts the word of foreign companies as though they were the words of national companies. Australia is not in the position it was ten years ago. Then, foreign management was able to show us imaginative thinking in resource mining and marketing. Utah is an example with coal. Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd is an example with iron ore and bauxite. 
But we have passed that stage now. We do not need to be shown twice, or three times or four times. We have learned the lessons; we can now do it ourselves. Our mining technology is the envy of the world. Our savings outstrip gross domestic capital formation by a street. We have the money, the know-how and the markets. All we need is to resolve to do it our way. What we need is a government with national pride and imagination, a government with confidence in Australians and Australian institutions. What we have for a government is a cringing, crawling bunch of sell-outs- unimaginative drones. Never has the government tabled its advice from the 
Foreign Investment Review Board on foreign investment proposals. 

 Government members interjecting- 


 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The House will come to order. I would ask the honourable member for Blaxland to be a little temperate in some of the language he uses to describe the Government. 
The real crux of foreign investment issues never sees the light of day. The FIRB conducts the wholesale liquidation of Australia in private and the Government keeps it private. How many projects are proceeding without any Australian equity? What is the reason? Did the Government oblige foreigners to involve Australian partners? Were their efforts sincere, or did they just make offers they knew Australians were bound to refuse? The Australian public deserves an answer to these questions. The Government even changes its stated foreign investment policy on an ad hoc basis with each project. For all intents and purposes the Government has no consistent or believable foreign investment policy any longer. It is now a sham, a piece of window dressing to legitimise the continuing sell-out of Australia. 
At its National Conference in Adelaide this year, the Australian Labor Party outlined a firm approach to foreign investment which would be taken by a future Labor government. The policy states quite clearly on page 133, under section K- for those interested in looking at it- that a Labor government would: 
Operate the foreign investment rules to prevent domination of coal reserves and coal marketing arrangements by major foreign interests, particularly oil companies. 
This policy would be adhered to in government so that Australia's coal trade was responsive to the Australian national interest and not the interest of some other country. If the present Government wants some gratuitous advice it would do well to adopt the same approach. 
-The Opposition supports this legislation. As the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  pointed out in his second reading speech, the main purpose of this Bill is to amend the finance provisions of the Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric Power Act 1949. These provisions relate to the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority, which was established for the purpose of designing and constructing the Snowy Mountains scheme. The scheme was substantially completed in 1974, after a construction period of almost 25 years. Even now, this represents probably the largest project in Australian history and the longest in terms of construction time. Until now the finance for this project had been provided by way of advances by the Commonwealth Government, repayable over 70 years. To date, over $820m has been advanced by the Commonwealth to the scheme, while over $500m has been repaid in the form of interest and repayment of advances. Total indebtedness remains at about $960m. Given the level of funding required for the scheme, it was obviously necessary for the Commonwealth to provide the finance. However, now that the project is completed these arrangement are no longer required. 
The Bill before the House is to allow the Snowy Mountains Authority to borrow money in its own right rather than be dependent on advances from the Commonwealth. The Opposition is not opposed to this policy as we believe that the Authority should be able to operate, as is the case with most other statutory authorities, according to normal commercial principles. 
Although the scheme is completed, the Snowy Mountains Authority still has a very important role to fulfil. Funding requirements are no longer large, but close to Sim is still required annually. Last year about $850,000 was advanced by the Treasurer to the Authority for construction purposes. The changes to the Act will allow the Authority to borrow future funds itself and, as with other statutory authorities, these borrowings will be guaranteed by the Treasurer. 
Although the Snowy scheme is completed, it still remains unique in Australian history, in terms of both its size and its construction period. Over 700 people are employed full time in the scheme at present. The power stations provide valuable peak load electricity to New South Wales and Victoria. All of the Australian Capital Territory's electricity comes from the Snowy Mountains scheme. The charge for this power is low compared with similar schemes overseas. By connecting New South Wales and Victoria, the scheme has allowed these States to make considerable savings in the quantity of reserve plant they would otherwise have had to maintain. Apart from electricity, the scheme also provides valuable additional water for irrigation to both the Mumimbidgee and Murray Valleys areas. 
The success of this project is a tribute to the Snowy Mountains Authority. The experience gained in this project has meant that the staff involved have been able to provide similar valuable services in engineering projects in Australia and overseas. Since 1970, this service has been provided largely by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, which operates on a consultancy basis. The Snowy Mountains Authority, the Council and the Engineering Corporation will continue to provide Australia and many overseas countries with an important service. 
The other sections of the Bill relate to the standardisation of legislation covering statutory authorities to bring it into line with other Comonwealth authorities. The provisions largely relate to officers and employees of the Authority. The Bill also allows the Minister to appoint an acting commissioner or acting association commissioner. Previously the appointment was made by the Governor-General. Amendments contained in the Bill allow the Authority to enter into contracts worth up to $500,000 without the approval of the Minister. Previously the allowable limit was $200,000. The Opposition supports the legislation. 
-The Opposition did not divide on the amendment because of the pressure of business on the House. I want that clearly understood. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I indicate that the Opposition did not divide on the amendment to the motion for the second reading because of the pressure of the business of the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-This Bill is to authorise the Pipeline Authority to construct a natural gas pipeline in New South Wales from Young, on the main Moomba-to-Sydney pipeline, to Cootamundra and Wagga Wagga in the south. This move is welcomed by the Opposition. The supply of natural gas to these towns will make a further contribution to the conservation of Australia 's liquid fuels because of the opportunity which will be made available for fuel substitution. The go-ahead has now been given to the Pipeline Authority, but it is in fact long overdue. These two towns, plus others in the region, have been waiting a considerable time for the supply of natural gas. 
As part of the original agreement between the Pipeline Authority and the Australian Gas Light Co., under which the Authority assumed responsibility for the Moomba-Sydney project, the Authority undertook to construct lateral pipelines to serve Cowra, Orange, Bathurst, Lithgow, Cootamundra and Wagga Wagga. This was to enable the Australian Gas Light Co. to meet its obligations to the New South Wales Government to supply natural gas to these towns. Despite representations from local councils and the fact that the Pipeline Authority has made it clear since then that it has been willing to honour this obligation, no action had been forthcoming. 
The Authority had started preparatory work on the laterals but in June 1975, with the agreement of the then New South Wales Government, AGL decided that construction should be deferred. As a result, the Federal Government decided to defer a decision on the provision of funds to the Pipeline Authority pending a formal request from AGL for construction. Despite subsequent statements by both the former and present New South Wales Government no request was received until late 1978. 
Last November the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  received a joint proposal from AGL and the councils of Cootamundra and Wagga Wagga that a lateral to these towns should be constructed, operated and maintained by the Pipeline Authority. The proposal was referred to the Authority which subsequently reported favourably to the Minister. As a result, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm 
Fraser) announced in his 27 June policy statement: 
The Government will authorise the Pipeline Authority to construct a twelve inch gas pipeline from Young to Wagga Wagga and to Cootamundra costing approximately $ 1 5m. 
The pipeline is now expected to cost in the order of $ 17.5m and should be completed by mid- 1981. This will not only provide further opportunities for fuel substitution but also provide valuable employment opportunities during the construction phase and after reticulation begins because of the attraction to industry which is offered by a supply of natural gas. As well as replacing fuel oil, natural gas also will replace liquefied petroleum gas, which is currently reticulated in both Cootamundra and Wagga Wagga. This will be a matter of great relief to the consumers in these two towns because, under the Government's import parity pricing policy, LPG is now priced at a price commensurate with the oil equivalent at import parity. Consumers connected to natural gas pipelines are now getting their gas at considerably lower costs- I think about a quarter or one-fifth of the price that people are paying for LPG- because LPG is produced synthetically in refineries and whilst it is produced as naturally occurring the naturally occurring LPG is supplied only when there is a shortfall in the refinery produced LPG. So the consumers in large towns which will not be connected to the natural gas pipeline, such as Bathurst, Lithgow, Orange and Cowra which are in New South Wales, will continue to pay through the nose for liquefied petroleum gas under this Government's import parity pricing because the LPG - 
We do not agree with the import parity pricing at all. I was interested to hear the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  trying to get off the hook the other day in the grievance debate. It is the Government that he supports which has flogged the consumers of New South Wales particularly those in the towns of the electorate of the honourable member, including the city of Orange. At this stage, of course, there is no decision by the Government to the contrary. The pricing of crude oil at import parity means that all of the by-products of the refining process reflect that import parity price. One of the things which reflect that import parity price is, of course, LPG. If country consumers in New South Wales and in Victoria are peeved about the fact that they are paying through the nose for LPG, they can lay the blame squarely on the present Government because it is Government policy. 
On that very point, in respect of Wagga Wagga, Orange, Bathurst and Lithgow, on behalf of the Federal Opposition, in 1977 I promised that a Labor government would build pipelines to Orange, Bathurst and Lithgow. I reiterate that promise; we would build the lines. The present Government has been in office for four years but it has failed to build the lines. If the lines had been built, the gas to these towns would have been priced in the terms of the contract which AGL entered into with the Moomba producers in respect of essentially the Sydney market. In other words, cheap gas would now be available to Orange, Lithgow and Bathurst. It is not. Instead, the people in these towns have very dear LPG, thanks to the Prime Minister, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and the Minister for National Development who believe in high energy prices. 
As well as replacing fuel oil, natural gas will replace LPG also. About 2,600 tonnes of LPG now used annually will be released for automotive use. As the Minister pointed out in his statement on 25 October, it is intended that this line be extended to Albury thus connecting the Bass Strait and Cooper Basin gas fields, establishing an east coast natural gas pipeline grid. I just make the point that the New South Wales Government was very interested that a six-inch line not be built to Wagga Wagga, which was the original intention, on the basis that a 12-inch line would at least connect with the northernmost extension of the Victorian gas grid. A 12-inch line connecting the Victorian gas grid and the New South Wales and South Australian gas lines would mean that the Cooper Basin would be connected with the Victorian gas grid. In the event of a shortage in supplies from Bass Strait or production problems gas could come from the Cooper Basin into the Victorian reticulation system. Similarly, Gippsland gas could come into the New South Wales and South Australian system. I do not know what the Authority's view on this proposal was. Probably it would have been the sensible one that a 12-inch line should have been constructed. It was absolute folly to be talking about a six-inch line. I know that the Victorians jealously guard their gas and say that what is found in Victoria belongs to Victoria. That is a parochial view that should not be argued by any person interested in Australia as a nation. The inter-connection of the pipeline does at least protect a continuity of supply. 
It is heartening to see that the present Government at least has come to realise the contribution that natural gas can make to Australia's energy independence and also the importance of having a well-planned gas grid connecting the major demand and supply centres of Australia. 
I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Pipeline Authority for the excellent job that it has done since its establishment in 1973. I am sure that future work undertaken will be of a similarly high standard. The construction and operation of the Moomba-Sydney pipeline has been the major activity of the Authority. The line was completed in December 1976 and it represents one of the nation's largest engineering projects of the 1970s. It is 1,300 kilometres long and in its first two years of operation carried gas, in terms of energy, equivalent to about one million tonnes of fuel oil. During this year it is expected that the quantity of gas carried will be greater than that of the previous two years combined. As the penetration into the New South Wales market increases, more and more deliveries of gas will be made by the South Australian producers and that will come down the line. 
The Opposition believes that if natural gas is to make a significant contribution to Australia's energy independence- and we believe this to be so- a well-planned, co-ordinated approach to development must be adopted. The central theme of the Green Paper which the Opposition produced in March 1979 was the utilisation of natural gas in Australia. The Australian Labor Party stands alone as the only party in Australia which asserts that gas will be the central preoccupation of Australian energy policy on the basis that it is one of the fuels that can be used to a much greater level, not only in terms of its pipeline and stationary applications but eventually as a substitute for liquids. I know that the Pipeline Authority also shares this view. In its 1976 annual report the Authority stated: 
The Authority has always been conscious of the need for planned development, including careful and detailed assessment of the short and long term markets for natural gas and the likely available supplies, and a technical and economic evaluation of the various possible solutions available in order to ensure that, in the longer term, say 25 years or more, Australia's valuable gas reserves are developed and used in the best interests of the nation. 
This is a view which the Government must also adopt if maximum benefit is to be gained from our natural gas resources. Australia needs a natural gas policy. Presently, it does not have one. About 10 per cent of our primary energy needs are currently met by natural gas. This figure is expected to increase to about 15 per cent by 1985. It will increase even more if proper policies are adopted now. 
The important characteristic of gas is that it replaces oil, the one fuel that Australia is in most need of. In absolute terms, Australia's proven gas reserves, on a heat value basis, are almost three times that of oil. The prospects for finding more gas are also much greater than for finding oil, and ultimate gas reserves are estimated as likely to be as high as five times the present level of proven and recoverable reserves. Total reserves at present are about 28 trillion cubic feet while it appears that ultimate recoverable reserves could be about 100 trillion cubic feet. The Australian Institution of Engineers believes that the ultimate reserves will be in the order of 160 trillion cubic feet. However, exploration activity for gas to date has been very poor. It has been virtually non-existent, particularly in off-shore areas, the most likely place for new gas discoveries. Much of the undiscovered gas is likely to be found off-shore Western Australia whereas the main centres of demand are on the eastern seaboard of the continent. 
No, but it is true in Australia because Australia, in geological terms, is a very old continental land mass and the intelligence is that hydrocarbons are found in the younger sediments. The younger sediments in Australia are in the prolongation of the continental shelf, mainly off the Western Australian coast. That theory has now been tested somewhat and there have been announcements recently of exploration programs on-shore. I think that we have accepted too easily that most of the prospects are off-shore. Probably there are good prospects onshore, but there has been a low level of gas search because of the very long term contracts which have been tied up for gas supplies, particularly by Victoria and New South Wales. That has meant that there has been no point in companies just spending money to add to reserves. Companies do not spend dollars finding reserves; they spend dollars finding reserves that they can sell. If there have been long term contracts, particularly contracts written in fixed price terms over long periods, there has not been an incentive for producers to go out and find more gas. This has had an inhibiting effect on exploration activity. 
Perhaps the most tragic area of neglect is the Cooper Basin. As honourable members would be aware, Sydney has a gas supply of 30 years under the Schedule A contract between the Australian Gas Light Company and the Cooper Basin producers. Victoria has at least a 25-year gas supply and a call upon a second block of gas from Gippsland. But South Australia will have a two trillion cubic feet shortfall between about 1984 and 2005. For Australia to give all of its major industrial centres a gas supply on a basis of a 25-year moving index would, I think, be a commendable national objective. This would be possible if we were to find another two trillion cubic feet of gas in the Cooper Basin or adjoining basins and if there were an adequate supply of gas in Western Australia. At the moment, of course, Western Australia will not have a 25-year gas supply with the current projected level of liquefied natural gas exports on the North West Shelf. But if the proven reserves of the area close to the North Rankin trend in Egret, Tide Pole, and some of the other areas close to North Rankin- Goodwyn and Angel- are proven, then Western Australia itself could have a 25-year supply of gas. It would mean that Perth and the rest of Western Australia, Adelaide and South Australia, Melbourne and the rest of Victoria, Sydney and New South Wales and the other large centres like Newcastle and Wollongong, and if there were any further discoveries in the Surat Basin, Brisbane itself, could have a 25-year supply. That could be a good thing for Australia. It would give us a level of energy independence which would be quite luxurious. So the problem is finding two trillion cubic feet of gas on this side of the continent. I do not think there is going to be that much trouble finding it. In fact, people are very bullish about the Cooper Basin. I think the Cooper Basin reserves are about 3.6 trillion cubic feet. There is a school of thought that that figure could be doubled to about 7 trillion cubic feet. Even if we could find another two trillion cubic feet that would be sufficient. 
The alternative, of course, would be to build a pipeline across from Gippsland to Adelaide. I know Esso would probably like to do that because it would give that company some negotiating strength against the Victorian Gas and Fuel Corporation. But it would not make all that much sense to build a pipeline to Adelaide when the Cooper Basin liquids are going to need to be brought to market. A pipeline is therefore either going to have to be built to Redcliff or to Port Stanvac or to Brisbane, in which case we would be better off building a pipeline which could carry more gas to South Australia from the Cooper Basin, the Arrowie Basin, the Officer Basin or any of the other adjoining basins in that area. So if we get off our tails and start looking for gas in Central Australia, the likelihood is that we will find another two trillion cubic feet of gas. If we were to find another two trillion cubic feet then the demand picture for this side of the continent would be satisfied without building a transcontinental pipeline. 
There is a lot of talk now about building a transcontinental pipeline to supply gas, but of course, if we build one there will not be any gas to come down the line because it will be committed mostly to Japan and to domestic Western Australia. After we supply 300 million cubic feet a day out of North Rankin for Western Australia plus 6.5 million tonnes of LNG a year, there would virtually be a very slim chance of sending very much more gas on a daily basis down a transcontinental pipeline; and there is not much point in sending it anyway because there is no market for it at the moment. But schemes have been floated to the effect that if we could send down gas to Sydney or to New South Wales then we could use coal to produce methanol. That idea is worth looking at but at this stage there is not much point given the fact that with some search we could find another two trillion cubic feet of gas in the Cooper Basin area. Another two trillion cubic feet of gas there would change the whole picture for Australia. It is very interesting to find everybody now interested in gas and in transcontinental pipelines and interconnected grids, but when the Labor Party was talking about these things in 1973-74, they were considered to be the height of folly and almost treasonous in terms of the politics of the day. The conventional wisdom of 1973-74 has now been adopted by the Government. The Government is now looking with an open mind upon these things. I just wish that the Government were as fair to my predecessor in office in looking at these issues as it is prepared today to look at issues. But of course in those days a Labor Government was in office and Labor governments are not supposed to run Australia; that is only for the crooked, broken down establishment. 
Much of the undiscovered gas, as I said earlier, is likely to be found off-shore. Some will be found on-shore. But of course we need to look much further at this question and to start to increase the whole search for gas in Australia. At the moment, of course, producers are more interested in finding oil than gas, mainly because of the significant price differentials between the fuels. Gas is priced to the producers at about $3 a barrel oil equivalent while the price of oil is about $19 a barrel. That brings me back to the point raised by the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie).  Consumers are paying about $19 a barrel oil equivalent for liquefied petroleum gas in Orange and in other cities and towns in his electorate, whereas if they were connected to a natural gas pipeline they would be paying $3 a barrel. I know the honourable member is listening. What I have to say is instructive. There is a lot of difference between $3 a barrel for methane and $19 a barrel for LPG. It is the Government's import parity pricing policy which lifts the price of refined LPG not naturally occurring. 
Australia's gas pricing policy with large price differentials between the States can be described only as a shambles. Until this is rectified, the incentive for gas exploration is unlikely to be forthcoming. A future Labor government will give serious consideration to a means of rationalising gas pricing policy. It will give a high priority to ensuring that each major consuming area is provided with a 25 years supply of gas. If an adequate level of private exploration is not seen a future Labor government will also become actively involved in exploration for gas via a government corporation which has been established in Labor policy and which would be called the Australian Hydrocarbons Corporation. A Labor government will also keep under investigation the need for a transcontinental pipeline but we are confident that additional reserves will be found in the eastern part of the continent if the correct decisions are made. If those reserves are found we will not need to build a transcontinental pipeline. In the meantime, it is hoped that the decision to provide a lateral line to Cootamundra and Wagga Wagga will be closely followed by an announcement to the effect that the other towns in New South Wales waiting for natural gas supplies will also be provided with lateral lines. 
I see a fairly bright picture for gas. I would see a much brighter picture if there were a much higher level of gas search in Australia. There was a report yesterday that Beach Petroleum NL had found gas in the Western District of Victoria. Even though it is a fairly modest gas flow it is important for that region. The pattern of onshore exploration will probably be such that we will be turning up pockets of gas throughout the continent. One of the things which play in favour of the United States is that it has many gas lines across the continent. No matter where companies drill they are close to a pipeline. If they can find a product they can generally sell it. Where there is real estate there can be exploration. There is not much point in putting down a hole in the northern part of South Australia, the southern part of the Northern Territory or the western part of Queensland if there is no pipeline nearby. The more pipelines which are built the more improved are the prospects for continuing gas exploration. Companies can then drill prospects in the expectation that on finding gas they can market it through the pipeline. 
The Pipeline Authority has done a sterling job in efficiently building and operating the pipeline in Australia. We hope that more pipelines will be built. While I have enjoyed the opportunity to talk about gas on this Bill, I find it outrageous that the Government should have passed legislation earlier this year requiring that any new pipelines in Australia be approved by a special Act of Parliament. In other words, Parliament has to agree to every single proposal instead of the Pipeline Authority being free to build lines. This provision was carried to stop a future Labor government building pipelines. One can see from the way in which the Tory brain works that the Tories think that the disproportionate and unrepresentative nature of the Senate will mean that the States with a smaller population can keep a stranglehold upon a future Labor government and that when pipeline proposals are made by that government, they can be blocked by a conservatively dominated Senate. 
That was the reason for the passage of the legislation in the first place. It was an attempt by a government to tie the hands of a future government. The present Government objects to that when the Labor Party tries to tie its hands on uranium policy but it does not mind trying to do it itself. There are no rules in Australian politics any more. The Prime Minister saw to that. We play without a set of rules. Actually, we have all come to enjoy the game. It gets back to a government's ingenuity in office- how it can checkmate the opposition and a future government in office. There is always more than one way to skin a cat. If Labor gets back to power its development policies will not be thwarted by the idiot behaviour of the present Government. 
-This debate embraces two Bills, the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Amendment Bill and the Customs Amendment Bill (No. 3). It is the first of these Bills which is of major significance and on which I wish to make most of my remarks. The purpose of the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Amendment Bill is to enact changes in the rates of coal export duty announced by the Treasurer in the 1979-80 Budget and the subsequent changes announced by the Minister for Trade and Resources on 25 October this year. The decision announced in the Budget was to decrease the rate of duty on high quality coking coal from $3.50 a tonne to $ 1 a tonne for coal produced from an underground mine, from a new mine commencing production after 30th June 1980, and from a major extension to an existing mine if production commences after 30th June next year. 
This Bill also legislates for the changes announced by the Minister for Trade and Resources (  Mr Anthony)  in October. These changes provide that coal with an ash content of more than 12 per cent will be exempt from duty and also reduces the rate of duty from $3.50 a tonne to $ 1 a tonne for coal mined from depths of more than 60 metres. These decisions became effective on 1 November. The Opposition opposes this Bill for the same reasons as it opposed similar legislation in 1976 and 1977. In 1976 1 stated: 
The Opposition opposes this legislation . . . primarily because the Government has not announced its intention of introducing a tax measure as a substitute for the present coal export levy. 
This remains the case today. The situation is even worse now because this Government has progressively decreased the level of duty payable. The present method of taxing the coal industry is inequitable and indiscriminate and the decreases in the coal export levy provided for in this Bill mean that the Australian public will receive an unfair return from highly profitable coal ventures. This industry is healthy enough to sustain a selective tax to increase the return to the Australian people. The Opposition is of the view that existing duty arrangements should be abolished and replaced with a resources rent tax, or secondary profits tax of some sort, which takes into account the level of profitability of each venture. For this reason, on behalf of the Opposition, I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the House declines to give the Bill a second reading as it is of the opinion that the existing coal export levies are indiscriminate and unworkable and their variations have resulted in a lower level of receipts from highly profitable coal ventures than would have been the case had a profits related taxing mechanism been established, and therefore calls upon the Government to introduce legislation to abolish the coal levies and replace the same with a resource rent tax which takes into account the real level of costs and profit'. 
Since 1976 the Opposition has been arguing consistently for the introduction of a profit related taxing mechanism which would discriminate between high and low cost coal mining operations. We recognise that the coal levy has imposed a burden on some marginal producers, particularly underground mines in New South Wales. But this is no reason for decreasing the rates of duty as is now being applied by the Government. In fact, this is an argument for a taxing mechanism which takes production costs into account. Under such a system high cost operations would pay little or no tax, while highly profitable ventures would provide some return to the Australian public over and above company tax. By decreasing the duty rates, the Government is not only assisting marginal mines but is giving a significant amount of money to the highly profitable operations. This is further evidence of the political favours this Government is prepared to bestow on coal mining operations, particularly the highly profitable ones operating in Queensland. 
How can the Government justify decreasing revenue collections from companies such as Utah? The Utah Development Co.'s gross profit for the year ending December 1978 was $340m, on which the company paid $1 19m in company tax and $ 13m in branch profits tax, which comes to a total of $177m, leaving $l73m after tax. That included $45m paid by way of a coal export duty levy. The Utah Development Co. pays almost half of total collections of duty under the coal export duty arrangements. So we find a company with a total asset base of $520m, earning $340m in a full year and retaining, after tax, $173m. The total asset base is $520m. I do not know whether that works out, but it is over a 30-odd per cent return after tax on that kind of asset. 
In this year's Budget the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  estimated that the rate changes then announced would decrease revenue collections by about $20m in a full year. With the additional decrease in duty announced in October, this will represent an addition of revenue to Utah of over $10m. It is understandable that the Government wants to encourage the development of new mines and, therefore, has decreased the rate of duty on new mines to $1 a tonne. What about the new mines that prove to be highly profitable? The $1 a tonne rate ignores this possibility, whereas a resources rent tax would take this fact into account. Further, such a taxing mechanism would take into account the fact that costs are high in the early years of developing a mine. In these years little or no tax would be payable as large capital expenditures would be incurred, but in later years, once the major production costs have been written off, the Australian people would share in the benefits if profits proved to be exceptionally high, as has been the case with many developments in the past. 
It is only reasonable that companies should pay more than just company tax when the projects have been operating for long enough to write off their capital costs and when they start producing fairly large scale profits. After all the deposits are given to the companies by a State government to be mined and exported or to be produced locally and exported, and it is, therefore, reasonable that they are not treated for tax purposes in the same way as say a manufacturing business which is not given an asset by the State. Another major reason for a resources rent tax on coal is that a very high proportion of the coal industry is indeed foreign owned. This can be easily demonstrated by looking at the major companies that are involved in the mining and export of Australian coal and the level of foreign ownership in these companies. I will now list a few of these companies. In Queensland the main producers are the Utah Development Co. which is 89.2 per cent owned by Utah International of the United States of America; Central Queensland Coal Associates, 76.25 per cent owned by Utah Development Co. and 12 per cent by Mitsubishi Development Co.; Theiss Dampier, Mitsui Coal Pty Ltd, 22 per cent owned by Theiss Holdings, which is 1 6.5 per cent owned by Shell, and 20 per cent owned by Mitsui; Collinsville Coal Co. Pty Ltd, wholly owned by Mount Isa Mines Ltd which is 49 per cent American owned. 
The New South Wales producers are Bellambi Coal Co.- the Shell Co. of Australia and Mcllwraith McEacharn have recently purchased 64.8 per cent of Bellambi; Clutha Development Pty Ltd, 100 per cent owned by British Petroleum; Austen and Butta Co. Ltd, 37 per cent owned by Shell and 10 per cent by two Japanese companies; and Kembla Coal and Coke Pty Ltd, 50 per cent owned by Conzinc Riotinto of Australia. Of course, most of CRA is owned by Rio Tinto Zinc Corporation of Great Britain. 
Because of this high level of foreign ownership, profits earned by many of these companies are repatriated to parent companies overseas. If the companies involved were Australian the bulk of the profits would be retained in Australia. If the benefits from developing Australian resources are to remain in Australia, a resources rent tax must be implemented. There are other measures which have been bandied about from time to time, such as a graduated withholding tax. That also is an alternative to measures such as resources tax. 
Examination of the likely future of the Australian coal industry also demonstrates the need for a secondary taxing mechanism on this industry. At the moment the future for Australian coal looks very promising. Prospects for increased coking coal exports are good. The world steel market has improved significantly. For Japan, Korea and Taiwan, all significant importers of Australian coal, steel output rose by 11.7 per cent, 60.4 per cent, and 59 per cent respectively during the first half of 1979 compared with the same period in 1 978. Recent sharp increases in crude oil prices and growing uncertainties regarding the future availability of supplies have also directed increasing attention to Australian steaming coal as a source of energy. 
Australian coal exports are currently running at about 38 million tonnes per year, 34 million tonnes of coking coal and about 4 million tonnes of steaming coal. By 1985, coking coal exports are expected to be between 45 million and 50 million tonnes, and steaming coal exports over 15 million tonnes. Although coal export prices have not increased in recent years in real terms, increasing demand for coal should exert upward pressure on prices. 
If large profits are to be earned in the coal industry, in many cases by foreign companies, some mechanism must be established to share these profits equitably between producers and the Australian public. If coal prices fail to increase, a resources rent tax would take this into account but if, as is likely to be the case, coal prices increase, in line with oil prices, some benefit to the Australian public must be forthcoming. After all it is the people's resources which these companies have been given to mine and export and there must be a commensurate increment to the national wealth from this activity. 
A future Labor government would certainly seek to apply a resources rent tax to the coal industry. The tax would be carefully designed in consultation with the industry so that the objectives of such a tax would be met without some of the distortionary effects which can arise from taxes which are ill designed or hastily improvised. Some sections of the coal industry can afford to pay more than just company tax and, in my view, they should be obliged to do so. No sensible person believes in penalising companies to the point where development is stymied or where exploration is discouraged. But there is a sensible medium in all things. Imprudent talk by industry leaders about confiscatory policies does little to establish a sensible point of agreement between government and industry in relation to the nature and incidence of any resources tax. 
Public opinion will eventually force this Government to abandon its overly protective attitude towards the coal industry. It is to be hoped that some of the more responsible elements in the Government will see the need for a proper sharing of the tax burden amongst these institutions in Australia that can afford to make a greater contribution to the nation's wealth and so get away from the situation which we have witnessed in recent years in which the growth in tax income has come mainly from the payasyouearn category of ordinary taxpayers. 
The other Bill being considered is the Customs Amendment Bill (No. 3). The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. I reiterate support for the amendment which I outlined and moved earlier. 
-The purpose of this Bill is to validate all duties of excise collected on or before 30 June 1980 in respect of stabilised crude petroleum oil, saccharin and cyclamates and grape brandies. The Opposition is not opposed to the excise changes for saccharin and cyclamates and grape brandies; in fact it welcomes these changes. However, we are opposed to the increase in excise on crude oil from $11.30 to $16.25 a barrel which results from the determination of new import parity prices on 1 July last in line with the Government's import parity pricing policy. This increase in excise is a direct result of the Government's oil pricing policy. The Opposition does not object so much to the increase in excise on crude oil production but objects strongly to the policy of pricing Australian oil at world parity and to the use of an inequitable and inefficient method of taxing oil production. It is for these reasons that I will be moving the following amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to exclude the validation of the collection of any increase in excise duty on stabilised crude petroleum oil '. 
I will be moving this amendment because this Government has imposed a considerable burden on the Australian public through its import parity pricing policy and the associated system of crude oil levies. The Opposition believes that this policy should be abandoned. The price we pay for petrol in this country is determined by the Government, not by the Arabs as we are led to believe. This Government increases Australian oil prices by the same amount as increases in overseas oil prices. Whenever the world price of oil goes up, Australian prices go up by the same amount as a result of the Fraser Government's policy. The Fraser Government has locked us into international oil prices and the consequence of these increases. Since the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  took office in 1975, petrol prices have more than doubled. In November 1975 the price of petrol was just over 60c a gallon; in most parts of Australia it is now $1.35 a gallon. During this year alone petrol prices have increased by 25c a gallon. The price of oil went up by $5 a barrel only last July. In 1975, oil was priced at $2.33 a barrel. It is now $ 1 8.66 a barrel. The reason for this Bill is to ensure that the Government gets most of this $5 a barrel price increase. While the Australian consumer is forced to pay higher petrol prices, most of the revenue from the increases is going straight to the Government. In the energy field, several benefits are claimed for charging the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries price for oil which is produced in Australia. But in fact the Government has not been able to produce a comprehensive energy policy. Furthermore, its policy on crude oil pricing is dictated solely by the need to raise extra revenue. Every petrol pump in Australia has become a branch of the Taxation Office. This year, the Government will get $2,500m in the form of excise on crude oil and company tax on oil producers plus an additional $950m in excise on petroleum products. This amount of revenue from crude oil is equivalent to the total collections from company tax; that is, this year the total amount of revenue from crude oil and petroleum products will be $3,450m. 
Import parity pricing is claimed to do several things. It is claimed that higher prices for petroleum products lead to energy conservation; but it does not work that way. People have to use their cars, particularly as the Government is cutting back on funds available for public transport. Farmers and industry have to run their machinery, even at higher prices, and no practical alternative is available. There is no evidence that higher prices have led to petrol conservation. During the first six months of this year, petrol consumption increased by 3.3 per cent, diesel fuel consumption increased by 10 per cent and aviation gasoline consumption increased by 15 per cent. In April last year, the Department of National Development predicted that motor spirit consumption would increase by 2.7 per cent; this was before the introduction of fuel import parity pricing. The latest Budget Papers show that consumption is now expected to increase by up to 5 per cent this year. That is almost double the 2.7 per cent estimated by the Department of National Development. Even the Government does not believe in the conservation argument. 
It is also claimed that import parity pricing for old oil encourages exploration. But that also is not the case. In 1975, the Labor Government introduced a policy that provided that the world price would be paid for any new discoveries made after September 1975. This is what provides the stimulus for exploration, not the price paid for oil discovered 10 years ago. It is also claimed that world parity pricing gives encouragement to the development of substitute fuels. This can be true if the price increases slowly enough so that the right preparations are made for alternatives such as liquefied petroleum gas, ethanol and methanol. But the rapid oil price increases forced on us by this Government have not brought about the use of these substitutes. The price has increased too rapidly and there has not been time even to produce these fuels, let alone build up a market for them. So we have had all the disadvantages associated with higher oil prices and none of the advantages which should flow from them. 
One of the major disadvantages of this policy is the effect it has had on Australia's inflation rate. The petrol price increases granted this year have increased the consumer price index by over 3 per cent. Under a Labor government, this situation would not continue. We would abandon this Government's import parity pricing policy. We would not automatically pass on world price increases to Australian oil prices. Petrol would be cheaper under a Labor government than is the case under this present high tax party in officethe present Government. A Labor government would not push up Australian oil prices every time OPEC increased its prices. Of course we would have to pay the price for the 30 per cent of our oil requirements which we are currently importing, but we would not force the Australian public to pay world prices for oil which is produced in Australia. 
The other reason why the Opposition is opposing a section of this Bill and why it will be moving this amendment is that the present taxing arrangements for crude oil are unworkable, inefficient and inequitable and should be replaced with a resources rent tax, or a secondary profits related taxing mechanism. No one denies that the oil industry should be subjected to additional tax, to company tax, but what this Government has done is introduce a system which works against the maximum production of Australian oil and discourages expenditure on exploration and development within the oil industry. We have a situation at the moment of six different levy rates. These arrangements have become so complex that the Government will have to do something about replacing them with a resources rent tax. The rates have had to be changed every year since 1975. They have already been changed twice this year. The crude oil levy is a regressive form of tax as it represents a direct addition to cost rather than a sharing of profits. It creates distortion in investment decisions and is subject to many arbitrary changes. The levy system is inefficient as it promotes the premature abandonment of existing producing fields. On the other hand, a resources rent tax would ensure that maximum production is obtained because the tax payable would vary with changing production costs. 
Similarly, the levy discriminates against the development of marginal pools. This situation should be avoided at a time of domestic oil shortages. A resources tax can be structured to take a large share from highly profitable projects without inhibiting investment in marginal projects. A future Labor government will rectify this situation. It will abolish the existing system of crude oil levies and replace them with a resources rent tax which takes into account the level of profitability of each oil project. The amount of tax payable will be a function of the level of profitability of each venture. The resources rent tax will not discriminate against the draining of reservoirs, the development of marginal pools or exploration for new fields. Such a tax will ensure that the revenue from crude oil is shared equitably between Australian producers and the community, and not in any arbitrary fashion as is the case at the moment with the crude oil levy. 
Before concluding my comments on this Bill I would like to make a few remarks on the decrease in excise on grape brandies by $2.75 per litre of alcohol. The Government is portraying this decision as a magnificent gesture to the grape growing industry, while ignoring completely the fact that the problems currently facing the industry are to a large degree attributable to the actions of this Government. In particular, in the 1 978 Budget, this Government raised the excise on Australian produced brandy from $10.21 per litre of alcohol to $18.75 per litre-a rise of 83.6 per cent. The Opposition strongly supports the decision to decrease the excise payable on brandy and believes that this Government has not gone far enough in rectifying the situation it created in last year's Budget.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to exclude the validation of the collection of any increase in excise duty on stabilised crude petroleum oil'. 
I commend the amendment to the House. 
I second the motion,  Mr Speaker.  What we have witnessed in the last day or so is another milestone in the depths to which the Liberal Party will sink to gain electoral advantage. The law and order party is again breaking the rules of Australian politics, of the Australian people and of ordinary standards of decency. It will get right down into the sewers. Whether it is constitutional vandalism, burglary or just plain criminal activity, nothing is too hot or too heavy for the Liberal Party. One of the chief rodents in the sewers is the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  who is sitting in front of us. 
I withdraw it,  Mr Speaker.  The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs have been quoting for days from a Liberal Party document- not a Labor Party document- which they have been falsely misrepresenting as a Labor Party document. The Minister has been claiming in the Parliament, and the Prime Minister claimed at the Liberal Party conference, that it is a Labor Party document. They know full well that it is not. On Tuesday of this week the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs stated: 
But not only that, the Combe strategy paper- 
He called it 'the Combe strategy paper' when he knew very well that it was a paper from his own party. He went on to quote the document as stating, with reference to the swinging voters: 
. they will be only vaguely interested in voting for Bill Hayden . . . 
He did not even quote directly from page 2 of the document; he quoted selectively. The first line of that paragraph stated: 
The gang of four: that is for sure. It gets down to this issue: What motive could there possibly have been for anybody to burgle the offices of Mullins, Clarke and Ralph Pty Ltd, the Labor Party's advertising agency, if it were not for political espionage? Obviously the Liberal Party wanted to gain access to the Labor Party's campaign thinking not only in New South Wales but also in the Commonwealth sphere. There has been an arranged break-in and a burglary of those offices. The questions have to be asked: Is Robert Baudino the Charles Colson of the Liberal Party? Is Tony Eggleton the knowing receiver of stolen material? Did he realise that it was stolen? The New South Wales police now realise that it was stolen. There was only one copy of it. If it was stolen, what is Tony Eggleton 's attitude? He is one of these great figures of the establishment; the erstwhile member of the Commonwealth Secretariat; a Press secretary for former Liberal Party Prime Ministers; and a confidante of the present Prime Minister. Did he realise that it was stolen material? Did he realise that his own organisation had arranged- or probably arranged- for this break-in to occur? 
What is the attitude of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs to the fact that they are purveyors of stolen material themselves, that they are shunting stolen material right across the political landscape of Australia? This is a most serious charge levelled against the Government. It is levelled directly against the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs as a member of the Government, and the Prime Minister who has made these documents public. It is a serious charge against the Minister sitting at the table and a serious charge against the whole Liberal Party organisation. The Liberals may guffaw and try to write the issue off, but it is quite clear that there has been a burglary. It is now being investigated by the New South Wales Police. The material stolen was received by the Liberal Party. It was rewritten by the Liberal Party. It was purveyed by the Liberal Party. If honourable members opposite can be happy in government that their organisation, their Prime Minister and their Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs are the purveyors of stolen material, well, they can laugh their heads off. But I know that if it had been the Labor Party in this position it would have been hounded out of office and howled down for the Watergate-style activities which are involved here. 
A document was tabled in the Senate today by  Senator Carrick,  and I will read from it. It is from the Liberal Party of Australia. It states: 
Labor's campaign strategy papers have now received sufficient public exposure in the Press . . . to enable us to start using them to our own political advantage. 
The ALP plans (attached) are particularly relevant in respect to current grandstanding by Hayden and Young about unemployment. The campaign strategy points to the hypocrisy of the Labor Parliamentarians- while they are professing their concern about the unemployed, their Party's campaign 'blueprint' virtually ignores unemployment as an election issue. 

 Government members interjecting- 

