-I rise to speak in support of the motion. However, firstly I would like to congratulate you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on your election and I would like you to convey my congratulations to  Mr Speaker.  I am convinced that you will promote and maintain the respect that this House deserves. 
I should also like to refer briefly to my predecessor,  Dr Jim  Forbes. Through his untiring work in the electorate, he has earned a reputation of which any member of this Parliament would be justly proud.  His  devotion and unfaltering loyalty to the Liberal cause earned him the admiration and respect of all those who worked with him. During his career here he was Minister for the Army, Minister for the Navy, Minister Assisting the Treasurer, Minister for Health and Minister for Immigration. Such a record speaks for itself. Perhaps his greatest asset was his political nous. I believe he was one of the most under-rated politicians this Parliament has seen. I have a great task before me to equal the record of my predecessor and I can but wish him well for the future. 
I cannot speak for the first time in this House without expressing my sincere gratitude to the electors of Barker who supported the Liberal Party and elected me to be their voice in this Parliament. Let me say that I am acutely aware of the responsibility they have vested in me and I can only hope that my efforts in the future will show that their faith was not misplaced. 
In my opinion, the essence of the last election can be summed up in one word- incentive. The overwhelming rejection of the Labor Government was brought about by that Government's gross underestimation of the intellect of the Australian people, and that is putting it in the most courteous terms. The electors are not fools. They saw in 3 years the most rapid erosion of the incentive to stand on their own 2 feet that has occurred since Australia's foundation. It is the idea of incentive for the individual, the fulfilment of enterprise and reward for effort which can be seen to be the thread running through the Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General. He said that the Government's long term objective is 'to encourage the development of an Australia in which people have maximum freedom and independence to achieve their own goals in life, in ways which they decide. ' Later he said: 
There will be a major direction of resources away from Government towards individuals and private enterprise. 
We are moving from an era of government control and the resulting bureaucratic inefficiency to an era of relative non-intervention by government. I do not mean to say that the Government intends to go all the way and absolve itself of responsibility and enter a period of  laissez faire  economics. The Government, subject to the Constitution, is the last decision maker. 
The role of members of Parliament must be in part to stand aside from the day to day running of their government departments or electorates and to ask themselves: 'Where are we heading? What is our long term goal?' I suggest that the answer must be tempered by the underlying assumption of the promotion of incentive for individuals or companies to enable them to benefit from their own efforts. 
During the election campaign I was confronted by employees who said: 'Why should we work when our taxes are going to pay those who do not want to work?' In other words, what incentive is there to work when your next door neighbour sits home and enjoys the fruit of your toil at your expense? Undoubtedly there was a large number of genuine unemployed. However, the number of bludgers was sufficient to raise the ire of employees. Similarly, as a result of unparalleled inflation, the company, the single employer and the employee were all subject to a soul-destroying taxation system. Inflation had moved the average wage earner into the higher income tax bracket so that he was earning more, losing more in tax, but also having to pay more for his goods and services. In fact he was getting large pay increases but not ending up better off. 
What incentive is there to increase output when there is no benefit in real terms? It is clear that companies are being taxed on an illusory profit, as the report of the Mathews Committee clearly shows. Worse, companies are maintaining their dividends in money terms, not in real terms, by paying those dividends out of reserves. Their wage structure is such that, combined with the interest rate or cost of capital, there is no incentive to invest. This has led to the huge numbers of unemployed. For this reason it is imperative that for the promotion and maintenance of incentive in the Australian work force, especially in times of raging inflation such as we have seen recently, the Government must implement its tax indexation policy. I fear that the disastrous state of the economy left to it by the now Opposition, which hangs like a millstone around the Government's budgetary neck, will prevent it from implementing a tax indexation policy as fast as it would like. It is tax indexation which will allow the Australian worker to increase his money income through his own effort without being faced immediately with a disproportionate increase in his tax. When I refer to the Australian worker's effort, I mean his physical or mental exertion; I do not mean his strike power. 
Let me make it clear that I do not consider money to be the only incentive in our society. Clearly it is only one amongst a multitude. Job satisfaction would be considered by most to rank with money income. However, it seems clear that if the scale of taxation becomes so high, as indeed it must to support the socialist system which the Opposition would like, then I believe it is a disincentive to work and eventually will bring about the downfall of the economy. The handout mentality becomes overpowering. The Swedish version of socialism is put up by some on the Opposition benches as the ideal, yet when I was in Sweden in 1974 it was the ordinary citizen who claimed to me that his rate of taxation had become stifling. Many people went to Sweden after World War II. Sweden was then considered to be the land of golden opportunity. Some of those same people said to me that they were now looking elsewhere. 
It is worth remembering that just under onethird of the electors at the last election were under 30 years of age. The incentive to the young to obtain their own homes was almost nonexistent. The young were faced with outrageous increases in the cost of housing and enormous increases in interest rates. Their dissatisfaction was amply shown in my electorate. Between the 1974 election and the election on 13 December 1975, in one sub-division- a new housing development area- there were approximately 1000 new voters and the vote for my Party increased in the sub-division by the same figure. I therefore applaud the Governor-General's announcement that the Government will introduce legislation to establish a new homes savings grant scheme. 
Let us not forget the farmer, who is extremely important to me as mine is largely a rural electorate. The farmer was faced with rising costs for his inputs and falling prices for his produce. What is more, he was told that he did not need to maintain his production and so the superphosphate subsidy was removed. He was told that he did not need that incentive. In fact, some honourable members opposite seem to think that the superphosphate subsidy is a tax-free income whereas in fact it is a reduction in the price we pay for one of the many inputs in farming. The last straw for the farmers who had to put up with all those problems was to be told by the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  that they had never been better off. They had been and they knew it and they proved it on 13 December. 
I want to refer briefly to 3 areas which are of great concern to the people of my electorate of Barker and to the Australian community as a whole. I will look firstly to the Australian Wool Corporation. I think most would agree that the Corporation has fulfilled its roll in endeavouring to minimise the effects of the cyclical slumps which seem to occur in the wool industry. Unforunately it has not been all plain sailing for the Corporation, as reported on page 5 of its interim annual report for 1974-75, where it is stated: 
At this time, the market was still reflecting some apprehension as a result of the Government's indecision on fixing the floor price level for 1975-76. 
The decision to retain the floor price at its previous level of 250c per kilo clean for 21 micron wool was welcomed by the Corporation and the industry in general, but the delay in reaching the final decision caused widespread uncertainty and undermining of confidence, both within Australia and amongst our overseas coustomers. 
That was yet another example of the Labor Party's meddling which we could well have done without. It is interesting to note that the average price received for wool at auctions has declined from 1972-73 when it was 184c per kilo greasy- I use round figures- to 127c in 1974-75 and 139c to date in this season. The figures as supplied speak for themselves. It is worth mentioning in passing for those city dwellers listening that the floor price does not mean that we all get 250c for every kilo of wool we produce. It is quite clear from the figures that although inflation has been rampant in this country over the last 3 years and costs have been increasing, the return to the wool grower has in fact been falling. Bearing this in mind and even though a recovery in the wool price seems to be likely, I wish to raise the following suggestion for the consideration of the Corporation and the Government. 
It seems that whilst the main competitor to wool is the artificial fibres and that one of the main problems for the manufacturer using the natural wool fibre is the fluctuating cost, maybe it is time we considered long term contracts, say between the Corporation and the manufacturer direct, just as we do with our minerals. It would seem that the manufacturer, wherever he may be- Japan, Germany, France, England the United States or any other country- could, if he knew the cost of his major input, plan his production with much greater certainty. This would have the effect of minimising the wild fluctuations which occur in the market. Undoubtedly, there are a number of difficulties in this proposal. I understand that Japan and France already have shown their distaste for our direct contracting with the manufacturer. However, I understand that we have made certain inroads into the Unites States market. Clearly it will require a good deal of co-operation from all those in the industry, especially the governments concerned. However, it would seem to me that the benefit accruing to the producer-manufacturer and the end user could well be worth the effort. 
Secondly, I look to the Australian meat industry. I am concerned at the decrease in the export of live cattle for slaughter. The Australian Meat Board annual report for the year ended June 1975 reports a decrease of 4 per cent to 5130 cattle exported live. This, viewed in the light of the large trade in live cattle in the rest of the world, points to the fact that we could be missing out on an extemely important export market. Australia has the fourth largest beef cattle population in the world. According to the 1974 Food and Agriculture Organisation figures we are fourth behind the United States, Brazil and Argentina. Out of the 10 major live cattle exporters we were tenth. Let me look briefly at what some authorities are saying about the livestock cattle market. The  World Agricultural Report  dated 19 December 1975 states: 
The United States made its first export sales of cattle to Indonesia in 1974, and while sales were small, they represent a breakthrough for United States livestock exporters into a market previously serviced entirely by Australia. 
Such a statement needs little comment. The state of our beef industry is well known to all, yet we are losing markets. It is not only Indonesia. What of the feasibility of large scale livestock projects in Malaysia? The Canadian  Agriculture Abroad  December 1975 issue estimates that 15 000 to 20 000 breeding animals will have to be imported annually over the next 15 years to improve the domestic cattle. The Canadians are also negotiating with a number of Moroccan government agencies for the sale of pure bred dairy and beef cattle. I therefore strongly urge this Government to work towards the removal of all restrictions affecting the rights of our cattlemen to export their produce in the form demanded by the purchaser. It is well known that one of the greatest stumbling blocks to a trade in cattle for slaughter has been the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union. Members of that union seem to be under the mistaken belief that such a trade would lead to a decrease in the number of jobs, which of course is quite wrong. In fact, it is the same baseless argument as was used against the introduction of machinery in the Industrial Revolution. I therefore urge the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to undertake immediate talks with all parties concerned in order that a guaranteed unrestricted free trade in livestock for slaughter may become possible in the very near future. Without such a guarantee it is quite clear that we are not even going to get a chance at this trade. What agent or shipper would comtemplate a contract in live cattle for slaughter knowing of the huge losses suffered in the past as a result of union bans? 
Finally, and necessarily briefly, I refer to a matter of great concern to my electorate and to all Australians, that is the abuse of power wielded by some unions. There is little doubt that unions have a positive role to play in our Australian society. However, it is equally true to say that there are a number of unions in this country which are controlled by individuals whose aim is not to benefit members of their unions but rather to use their position for their own purposes. More often than not those purposes are contrary to the continued existence of our society as we know it. I am not about to indulge in a spate of union bashings. Those who sit on this side of the House as well as those who sit opposite are well aware of the individual executive unionists whom wc would be much better without. It is clear that it is a joint desire, it is an Australian desire to see cooperation between all members of the productive processes in this country. I refer to the Governor-General 's Speech in which he said: 
The Government intends to increase the capacity of Australian workers and employers to decide the leadership or their organisations. 
Merely by implementing the secret ballot provisions we are not going to rid ourselves of our mutual union problems. Rather, it is going to require encouragement from all sectors of our community to ensure that reponsible members of the unions stands for executive positions and, further, to encourage unionists to exercise their right to vote. We all have a duty to ensure that the role of responsible unionism is protected. At the present time our greatest task is to ensure responsibility from the unions. It is those in the rural sector in my electorate who are grieviously affected by irresponsible union action. They are defenceless against the abuse of union power. They cannot pass on costs. I look to co-operation from all sectors of the Australian community in order that we might effect our economic recovery. I thank the House for its courtesy on this occasion. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Can he inform the House of the cost last year of running the Lodge and Kirribilli House? 
-The Minister for Primary Industry undoubtedly will recall the statements I made in my maiden speech about the desirability of opening up the live beef export market. Is the Minister aware of a report in the Melbourne  Age  this morning relating to a letter sent to him from the Victorian Stock Agents Association asking him to facilitate the export of live cattle? What steps can he take, has he taken, or does he intend to take in this regard? 
-These Bills seek to amend the Livestock Slaughter Levy Act 1964-1974 in such a way as to introduce a slaughter levy of $1 a head on cattle slaughtered on and after 1 July 1976. As honourable members will recall, the Government recently passed legislation suspending the meat export charge, which was 0.6c per lb for beef and veal exports. The Industries Assistance Commission drew attention to the inequities of the export charge for the funding of the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. As the Minister for Primary 
Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said in introducing this legislation it has the support of industry organisations. The levy is designed to offset the Commonwealth's contribution to national endemic cattle disease eradication programs in Australia. The benefits to be derived from the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis, both as far as home consumption and our exports markets are concerned, are obvious. The Minister mentioned the importance of the eradication of these 2 diseases in relation to overseas markets for livestock. 
The problems facing the beef industry are enormous. One way to overcome some of the problems is through the extension of market opportunities, both domestically and internationally. Within the international area is the unfulfilled potential of live cattle exports. The statistics of world beef carcass production and consumption demonstrate that increased sales of beef products will provide part of the answer to the problems facing our cattle industry. Australia is the only great cattle growing country which does not merchandise its cattle. At the last census our cattle population exceeded 33 million and it grows faster than in almost any other country. But we are one of the only countries that does not have unrestricted cattle exports. The most cattle Australia has sold overseas in any one year was less than 20 000. In most years it has been around 5000. By comparison other countries with smaller cattle populations than Australia enjoy a healthy trade in live cattle as well as in beef. 
Unfortunately, more up to date figures are not yet available but in 1972 more than 50 countries exported more live cattle than Australia. Those countries ahead of Australia include China, Indonesia, Brazil, Uruguay and Argentina. Some people have argued that an increase in the export of five cattle will affect job opportunities for abattoir workers. But these are 2 different markets. The world already has a live cattle trade worth over US$1, 500m per annum. This trade has not affected Australia or Argentina as the major beef carcass exporters. In fact, Argentina enjoyed a live cattle export in excess of 200 000 head per annum until 1970 when a foot and mouth outbreak reduced its trade to less than 100 000 per annum. This further substantiates this Government's purpose in moving to eradicate disease in this country and to prevent it being imported into the livestock of this country. 
I repeat that the carcass and livestock markets are different. The live cattle market gives good support to the carcass market. Australia's development of live cattle exports would not endanger our carcass production exports. In fact, development of live cattle exports will introduce Australian beef eating into new markets and will help to open new avenues for our carcass trade. At present many countries will not buy our carcass meats. Their customs and conditions are such that they buy only live animals. If these countries cannot buy from Australia they will continue to buy elsewhere. Our major buyers of carcass meat will always want that commodity. There are problems with livestock export of which I am fully aware. Chilled and frozen meats can be trans-snipped more easily and cheaper than live cattle. Live exports satisfy only a portion of the world meat protein demands. While the beast keeps fresher when live, the problem of transport, feeding, and holding restrict the live trade and will always require an increasing export of carcass beef from cattle producing countries. 
But if there are some buyers who want live cattle only and we do not supply them, someone else will as happens now. People suggest that the cost of transport is prohibitive. The meat division of the Department of Primary Industry said that as an indication of likely costs, shipping freights for sheep are around $35 a head and it suggests that the cost for cattle would be even higher. It may come as a surprise to that Department to know that in South Australia the Adelaide abattoir charges about $30 a head to slaughter cattle. I admit that it is probably the most expensive abattoir in Australia. But I am sure all honourable members will understand that, as we have a Labor Government in South Australia. This cost of slaughter must be included in the carcass price. I agree that there are problems but I do not believe that they are insurmountable. 
I repeat, that the livestock and carcass markets are quite separate. But they co-exist. In fact, livestock export will in all probability increase our carcass export and therefore increase employment in the primary and secondary industries which are associated with cattle raising. It will assist our abattoir trade, transport industries, wharf labouring, shipping and so on. Many say the livestock export figures are not relevant to Australia because a lot of the trade is in the northern hemisphere where stock is moved from winter to summer pastures and so on. But among the major live cattle exporters Ireland, Brazil, Uruguay, Columbia and Argentina are all shippers. They do not have large markets in close proximity which permit the use of land transport. We should also bear in mind that the vast Australian continent has such a different climate in the various regions that it can supply cattle to almost any country with areas of similar climatic conditions. 
What are the prospects of exporting to some of our nearer neighbours? The World Agricultural Report of 19 December 1975 reports that beef consumption in Indonesia is increasing significantly largely as a result of rising personal income generated mainly by the country's booming petroleum export trade. However, the country's cattle numbers are declining in the face of this expanding consumer market as slaughterers seek to supply demand with meat from native livestock herds. The Government there is concerned that continued shrinkage of Indonesia's cattle-people ratio will eventually erode nutritional levels unless steps are taken to replenish the diminishing cattle numbers. Another problem of growing concern in Indonesia is the country's Livestock Act which forbids the sale for slaughter of any large animal except old or unproductive stock or poorly bred males. Livestock economists have been advocating the sale of livestock at marketing age in order to shorten the production cycle and allow higher frequency of stock replacement as well as more efficient utilisation of the available feed supply at a constant size herd. Thus, there is room for Australia to assist Indonesia's beef production by increasing livestock through exports to that country. This is an area which needs to be examined especially in relation to our promise of aid over the next 5 years to that country. It may well be that some of that aid can be in live beef. 
Let me look briefly to Japan. Live cattle have been imported to supplement the Japanese domestic herd. There has been a growth in this trade over the years but the volume, which reached a high of some 8000 head in 1973, has been relatively small. In recent years the bulk of imports has been for fattening rather than for breeding purposes. Shipments are permitted only from designated countries which must be free from prescribed livestock diseases. The principal suppliers have been Australia, the United States and Canada. It is worth noting that  Mr Handbury  of the Victorian Stock Agents Association is reported as saying recently that Japan was seeking 12 to 15-month old British breed steers for fattening and processing and would pay producers around $150 a head. He said that one of the members of the Association procured an order for 1000 steers and another member could place a further 10 000 if able to shift them. This has been substantiated by members of the Liberal delegation that recently visited Japan. Private entrepreneurs there have shown an interest in this trade and if supply could be confirmed they are talking of converting tankers for this trade. They want the cattle to grow and fatten in Japan for slaughter. Therefore, I call on all honourable members to support this Bill which in the long term will open more of the world markets for us. Further I call on all interested parties to move immediately to promote the facilitation of this market of live cattle export to the Australian cattlemen. I do not expect an enormous market to develop overnight, but let us develop this market as well as our carcass export market. 
-Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware of Press reports relating to the final report by the Commission of Inquiry into Alleged Payments to Maritime Unions? Will he table that report today and will the Government take a strong line to ensure the implementation of legislation, if none is currently applicable, to enforce repayment of the moneys fraudulently obtained by some members of some maritime unions and to impose criminal sanctions on such persons? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security aware of the situation in South Australia where a magistrate adjourned a number of applications for adoption of Vietnamese children? Can the Minister offer any information on this matter? 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry inform the House what progress has been made in the formulation of a new meat board? Further, will the Minister tell the House what steps he has taken regarding the unbelievable and seemingly biased policy of the Australian Meat Exporters Federal Council to oppose any increase in the number of livestock exported at a time when there is a huge surplus of cattle in Australia? 
I commend the Government for the Budget and I commend the Government for not increasing taxation. I am concerned about the situation, which seems to be becoming dominant in our economy, in which we have some unions whose main aims seem to be to work towards the destruction of our economy rather than towards its recovery. Undoubtedly one of the major factors causing inflation over the past few years has been what the economists describe as the cost-push theory. This is based on the fact that a number of unions have used their collective powers to enable them to obtain wages which they would not have been able to obtain in a perfectly competitive market. They were, of course, aided and abetted by the Labor Government, especially in the mad 1 974 calendar year when that Government openly supported wage increases far in excess of the productive capacity of this country. 
However, I consider that the problems relating to the union structure in this country deserve further examination in order that we may get to the root cause of the problem. One area which I believe requires examination and rectification is the divergence of the aims and aspirations of trade union leaders from the aims of their members. I believe this is an extremely important factor to be considered when looking at the problem of inflation in this country. It is fair to say, I think, that the union is thought of as the embodiment of its individual employees and that the prime role of the union is undoubtedly the maximisation of wages and the improvement of working conditions for the employee. However, it we look to what are considered by some union leaders to be their aims, we see that these may in fact differ from the aims of their members, and thus the role of some of the unions similarly differs from the strategy which should properly and reasonably be followed by those unions. 
What then are the motives of the union executive? He obviously looks to the security of the institution he represents. Secondly, he looks to the security he enjoys as an official in that institution and at the wage he might gain and maintain in that position. Thirdly, he looks to his position as being one in which he can actively promote his political objectives- although that of course does not apply to all union officials. If we consider the role of the union executive pursuing his own political objectives, we can see how often in recent times the union has been treated as a political institution guided by leaders whose aims are of a nature very different from those of the union members. Clear support for that argument is shown in the refusal of the members of many unions to support the Medibank strike, which was clearly a political strike. Prior to the Medibank strike I received numerous calls from unionists desiring to work during that strike. They rang asking for guidance as to how they could avoid the strike in relation to which they had had no opportunity to voice their opinions. 
If we look to the figures, it is clear that there was enormous dissatisfaction with that political strike. In South Australia the State Bank of South Australia, the Tramway and Motor Omnibus Employees' Union and the South Australian teachers were allowed to vote on the strike. They voted to work during the strike. In Western Australia approximately 9000 members of that States branch of the Transport Workers Union defied the Federal Transport Workers Union directive to strike. In the air services industry, the Professional Radio Employees Institute of Australasia directed that its flight service members perform normal duties during the strike. These are just a few of the examples of those who were given a chance to decide whether to be involved in a political strike voting against such a strike. In many cases those people who were not given the opportunity to vote defied their union executive and worked. How often do we see union executives making decisions and being too scared to put them to the vote of their union members. It appears that the Labor Party supports such a democracy where the individual has no right to choose for himself. Just as the union executives in the Medibank strike were out of touch with their members, so it was clearly shown at the last election that the Labor Party was out of touch with its electors. 
I said earlier that I considered that political strikes, in which the aims of the leaders of some of the unions differ from those of their union members, constituted one of the factors hampering our efforts to beat inflation. Those unions decrease our production and cause a fall in our standard of living from the level at which it could have been. They are killing our ability to compete on the world market and they are giving Australia an extremely bad reputation with overseas investors. 
Another example of the union executives aims differing from those of the membership can be seen in many of the demarcation disputes throughout Australia. Honourable members will recall that I have mentioned, amongst the factors motivating the union executive, his tendency to look to his security in the union he represents and also to the wage he might gain and maintain in that position. Clearly then it is to his advantage to maintain and increase the membership of his union. He can do that by encouraging nonunionists to join the union or by widening the base of his union to include- or steal- members from other unions. Of course, he will have to retain the members already in his own union. Thus we have often seen in-fighting between unions trying to enlarge their union's work responsibilities and so increase their membership to the disadvantage of other unions. 
Trade unions in Australia are diverse in character and range from the small local independent association to the large national organisations. According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics, the annual trade union collections show that there were some 280 reporting unions at the end of 1975. A small number of the unions reported fewer than 20 members, whilst the largest reported more than 140 000 members. In 1975 there was a preponderance of comparatively small unions. Some 75 per cent of which had fewer than 5000 members. Most of the States provide for registration as part of their conciliation and arbitration legislation. Thus a number of unions are registered in the States, many of those unions being relatively small organisations operating only within their particular States. That, of course, has implications for amalgamations, and it indicates the prevalence of the traditional craft unions in Australia. Undoubtedly that has contributed to the incidence of inter-union demarcation problems. It is worth nothing that in Germany there are some 16 unions compared with our 280 unions. 
Recently we have seen many instances of problems arising when a union is involved with another union in a demarcation dispute. The  Daily Mirror  of 7 September highlighted that point on page 3 when giving details of a factory that produced 200 caravans a week having to close because of a union demarcation dispute which had stranded materials on Sydney wharves. The managing director of the company involved said: 
I regret having to stand down men with family commitments who want to work. But plywood, upholstery, stoves and refrigerators for caravans have been on the wharves for S weeks and we have run out of material. Hardship for industry and workers was being caused by a few union leaders who were hungry for power. The officials just don't want to hear about workers who have been put out of thenjobs. 
That was the result of the dispute between the New South Wales branch of the Transport Workers Union and the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia over who should handle large containers. That dispute had apparently tied up half of the cargo in Sydney. I have also been informed that as a result of that and other similar disputes in the Sydney waterfront area some 2000 containers were held up and that that was causing a world-wide shortage of containers. One can only imagine how that will enhance our standing with our fellow trading nations! 
Perhaps the best example of the cost to production and the final cost to the worker caused by inter-demarcation disputes can be found in the shipbuilding industry. I understand that there are some 16 unions in the Whyalla shipyard. As I have said, that is about the same number of unions in the whole of Germany. Despite the huge cost increases incurred in demarcation disputes within that shipyard, the unions continue to bicker to the extent that now all the jobs of their members are at risk. How can the leaders of those unions say they have benefited their members by continual infighting, so that now all members risk losing their jobs? The farcical nature of the politicking which goes on with some of the unions involved in that industry was made amply clear when some of those unions sent members to protest in this House. They attempted to organise a plan whereby some members were to demonstrate wildly in order that they be arrested. This House will remember that the demonstration did take place and the union members were removed from the gallery. At the same time, the union executives in Adelaide were sending telegrams demanding the release of the arrested men. Of course, the men had not even been arrested. You might have thought that the union executive, before sending the telegrams, would at least have had the intelligence and foresight to inquire whether its plan to have people arrested as a political protest had worked. 
Demarcation disputes are futile exercises. They are of little or no benefit to workers and they cause major disruptions to industries and others whose livelihood depends on their services. The answer, of course, to these demarcation disputes, which are strangling Australia's life blood and throwing workers out of their jobs, is to have amalgamation of industry unions. I understand that it has been the policy of the Australian Council of Trade Unions since the 1920s to encourage amalgamation of industry unions. Again, it would seem that the self-centred and selfish aims of some of the union executives have counteracted this policy, and whilst a few amalgamations have taken place, it is obvious that the problem still remains. It is Liberal Party policy and ACTU policy to encourage amalgamation of industry unions in order to assist in avoiding this type of dispute. 
It is quite clear that the English craft type of union from which our union organisations have descended, is not appropriate to the current Australian situation. I believe the advantages gained by the unionists forming membership of a larger industry union rather than a craft-based union would be enormous. A worker would have added security of employment within his trade or within related trades which would all be under the same union, so that if there was a recession in one area of the industry, the employee could move much more easily to another area within the same union. Similarly, the employer would have an easier task in having to deal with only the one union in his industry. 
Demarcation disputes of themselves may not make up a large percentage of the total number of stoppages. However, when we continually have them in some specific areas, especially on or related to the waterfront, the results are devastating. Australia cannot afford this dislocation of the industrial system. It is worth noting that the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  agrees with this statement. When he was Minister for Labor in 1973 he said in this House, reported at page 1 426 of  Hansard: 
Demarcation disputes concerned with protecting the revenue and membership of a union threatened with loss of coverage by encroachments of other unions are a common occurrence in this country. Too much time is lost through disputes over which unions should handle a certain job. The mobility of trade union  offiicials  from office to office is sometimes restricted by rules which require officials to be drawn from amongst long-standing union members only. 
It is these political and demarcation disputes which are impeding our economic recovery and our efforts to beat inflation. There are probably 2 main groups of people who cannot protect themselves from the ravages of inflation. They are the farmers and the superannuitants. Nearly all other groups have a remedy. The employee can go to his employer for a wage increase; the employer can go to the market with a price increase and most other groups can go to the government to demand their increases. However, the superannuitant and the farmer have no-one to whom they can turn. It is my duty to point out to the few unions which are causing the trouble in the Australian community at present that they are causing an enormous amount of pressure to be brought upon persons like me from those who have no such control over their income. The rural sector which is dependent upon world markets relies upon the support of the government to protect it. The rural sector has no Prices Justification Tribunal, nor is there any indexation of its income. There is no strong union to press for higher wages in that area. When these sectors are affected, as they have been by union disputes and especially demarcation disputes, after the huge loss of income they have suffered as a result of inflation, this burden is almost the last straw. 
The Government has been coming under increasing pressure to legislate for the protection of these people. I expect this pressure to continue to increase if these thoughtless unions continue to increase their efforts to self-destruct. If the Government does legislate it will mean a loss of some of the freedom of the union movement. I, for one, would be most concerned at such a loss of freedom. However, it is getting to the stage where in the exercise of our responsibility to protect the Australian society from these unAustralian attacks from radical unions, we could well be forced into this position. 
The easiest way to remedy the problem is in the hands of the unions. I call upon all union members to exercise their rights under the secret ballot legislation which we have implemented. I call upon the unionists not only to use their right to cast their vote but also to promote from among their ranks for executive positions unionists in whom they have faith and who will in their opinion, protect their interests, that is, the interests of the union members and not people who will merely use the executive position to promote their own interests to the detriment of the union movement as a whole. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting I was urging union members to take an active role in the election of officers in their own unions. If the Labor Party- the Opposition in this chamber- has the close affiliation with the union movement and the ability to get on with the union movement that it has tried to suggest in the past, although its record stands to damn that suggestion, it is in its interests to do all within its power to overcome the problem of the selfish union executives. 
Let me quote the words of the South Australian Governor,  Sir Mark  Oliphant, who said at a Press Club luncheon I was at last week: 
Within the capacity of industry to meet the costs, strikes for a better share in the profits from workers' efforts are understandable. 
But the exercise of such tactics in pursuit of political aims, or to increase the industrial muscle of a union, is unforgivable and quite contrary to the freedoms we cherish. 
Withdrawal of labour from any enterprise, private or state, should be a weapon of last resort, not a flippant exercise of power, sometimes amounting to terrorism as blatant as that wielded by Hitler. 
Australia cannot afford such terrorism and I call on all Australians to show the terrorists that they cannot hold this country to ransom. I support the Budget and I reject the Opposition amendment. 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry inform the House whether he considers that the export of livestock for slaughter is likely to affect the number of livestock slaughtered in Australia? If he considers, as most informed persons do, that, because of the cost involved, no one would export livestock if the purchaser would buy carcass meat will he undertake to use the resources at his disposal to educate the Australian Meat Exporters Council and the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is the Minister aware of Press reports relating to evidence given to the Prices Justification 
Tribunal by the biggest stevedoring company in Australia, which paid directors' fees amounting to $659,000 to 5 directors in the .1975-76 financial year? Did the Minister originally refer this matter to the Tribunal, and will he detail steps he is taking to overcome the detrimental effect that wharf handling charges are having on importing and exporting costs in this country? 
-Is the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs aware of the Press reports of 13 October on page 1 of  La Fiamma,  an Italian language newspaper, relating to the socalled  Handbook of Hate?  Is it true that one of the reasons for the veto on publication of the booklet is 'an unnecessary expense considering that discrimination is an everyday event'? What is this Government's stance in relation to discrimination against ethnic groups in this country? 
I want to speak about a problem which relates to the interaction of State succession duties and Federal estate duty. Many States have recently announced deductions or rebates in their succession duty legislation. For example, in South Australia I understand that the Labor Government intends to introduce legislation to abolish succession duty on estates passing between spouses, a policy which, I ought to mention, it stole from the Liberal Opposition in that State. I ask honourable members to remember that Federal estate duties are calculated net of State succession duty; that is the overall assessable amount for Federal duty is reduced by the level of State succession duty. This will mean that the gross value of an estate, dutiable for Federal purposes, will be increased by the amount of the State succession duty which would have applied. Therefore the Federal estate duty will be greater in some cases. Thus the States 's removal of succession duty on estates passing between spouses will mean that the Federal Government will increase its revenue in this area. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  stated this year in answer to question on notice No. 684: 
It is thought that the additional estate duty revenue that will accrue to the Commonwealth from the New South Wales proposals and from the proposal to abolish Queensland succession and probate duty might be about $5m per annum. 
In other words, the benefit given by the State would be taken in part by the Commonwealth. 
Of course, until it is known precisely what the State Governments do, it will be impossible for the Commonwealth Government to assess the effect on the Federal duty paid. However, I do ask that the Treasurer- as I am sure he willexamine the effect of the State legislation on Federal estate duty receipts and consider what steps he can take to ensure that any benefit given by a State government is not absorbed by the Federal government. 
I think that at this stage I ought to point out that there could easily be a catch in the South Australian legislation. I think it is generally recognised that there is a high statistical probability that the husband or wife will survive his or her partner only by a few years. Given that assumption, people should take extreme care not to think that there will be less duty to be paid by passing the whole of their estate from one spouse to the other on death instead of passing portion to their children at that stage. In fact, the case could be quite the opposite. Let us take the case of, say, a husband and wife and 3 children. Under the proposed South Australian legislation the husband may feel that he will avoid duty by giving his estate wholly to his wife and leaving her the responsibility to pass it to their 3 children on her death. Duty will then only be paid on the second passing of the estate from the wife to the children. Under the old legislation the husband would probably have given a quarter to his wife and a quarter to each of his children. Of course, this would depend on the size of the estate, but when his wife died she would undoubtedly pass the quarter she received or the remainder thereof to the children and they would have paid duty on that quarter, if it were a dutiable amount. In South Australia, with 'the sliding scale of duty payable depending on the size of the estate, it could quite easily occur that if the estate, as in my first proposition, goes as a whole to the wife and then on her death in one-third shares to the children, more duty will be paid on those 3 large estates than by the estate going in quarters to the wife and children and then the wife passing on her share when she dies. 
In other words, because in South Australia proportionally more duty is paid the larger is the estate, then it could be that in total the duty paid on an estate split 3 ways will be more than the duty paid on an estate split 4 ways, even with additional duty being paid on one of those quarters being further split 3 ways on the wife's death. Therefore, people should be extremely carefuland I give this warning to the people in South AustraIia-about the way in which they make their wills. It has been suggested by many that certainly in South Australia the State Government will lose nothing by introducing this measure as people will fall into the trap I have mentioned. From the vague references to this matter in the South Australian Budget, it appears that the Government expects the cost to revenue to be about $4m. However, it expects that amount to be absorbed by the effects of inflation on the size of the estates and it expects revenue to be about the same as last year. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for the Capital Territory. It being 'Life Walk Day' I am concerned that in a modern city such as Canberra little or no provision has been made for bicycle tracks. Will the Minister take steps to ensure that in any future roadwork plans ample consideration is given to the provision of such tracks before it becomes excessively expensive to do so as is now the case in some other Australian capital cities? 
-The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  is saying that personal income tax is not a growth tax, really showed the Labor Party at its strength. Of course it is not a growth tax if more people are not put into work, and that seems to be Labor Parry objective. The 2 Bills the subject of this debate are the basis of the Government's new federalism policy. I think there is little need to go into the problems which arise under a centralist government. We had 3 years of a centralist government, and that experiment was certainly a disaster for Australia, as was shown at the last poll. The criticism of centralism includes the fact that effort is duplicated where 2 governments are in fact doing one job. Resources are wasted where the governments which spend the money without having a part in raising it may not be inclined to spend the money wisely. Clearly the attempts by the Labor Government to govern the whole country from Canberra with a huge increase in tied grants led to decisions being taken by bureaucrats who are not attuned to the real needs of local people. 
Federalism, on the other hand, is a return to the basic principles of sound government. It gives financial responsibility to governments both at State and local level in that they will be financially responsible for the services they provide. No longer will they be able to disregard all responsibility and say it is all Canberra's fault. Probably more importantly it is based on the fact that those nearest the people know best how to spend the money in their area of responsibility. In other words, the basis services required by the community should be provided by the level of government closest to it. It is a more efficient method of distributing funds and hopefully the funds will be used more efficiently. Of course those receiving the funds will be accountable and responsible for their expenditure. It seems at this stage that it is responsibility that certainly the South Australian State Government is most concerned about. The Labor Government in that State, as I shall detail later, has a history of blaming all its failures on the Federal Government. 
The basis of the new income tax sharing scheme is that the States will now receive a guaranteed share of personal income tax, being some 33.6 per cent of personal income tax raised. Similarly, local government will have access to 1.52 per cent of personal income tax this year and an amount no less in future years- that is, $140m this year. This is an increase of some 75 per cent over that provided by the Australian Labor Party in the previous years. 
Yes, a 75 per cent increase. As income tax is a growth tax the States and local government will receive an automatic boost in revenue. In fact, stage 1 of the revenue sharing for the States provides a guarantee that for the next 4 years the States can never get less than the Whitlam Government's new formula, including the 3 per cent betterment tax, would have provided. In fact, in this year under the formula of 33.6 per cent, the States will get approximately $89m more in revenue sharing this year than they would have got under the Whitlam Government. Of course, as revenue from personal income tax increases as productivity grows, so the States' revenue will continue to grow. 
As part of the whole scheme the Advisory Council for Inter-Governmental Relations has been set up. This body is constituted with 5 members from the Commonwealth Government, six from local government- this shows our interest in local government- and six from the States as well as S citizens. The Council will advise the Government on responsibility and revenue sharing as well as provide a medium for consultation and co-operation between Federal, State and local governments in vital areas such as health, welfare, education and community services. This is the basis of co-operative federalism. I think an extremely good example of that co-operation can be found in the foreshadowed amendments to this Bill which have been put forward as a result of representations made to the Government. These amendments relate to clauses of the Bill which could have contained powers outside those envisaged by the Government. 
I want to deal now with the money allocated for local government in this financial year. There has been a certain amount of disquiet caused by the Minister of Local Government in South Australia,  Mr Virgo,  who has been running around the country claiming local government would be severely hurt by the new federalism policy. He has been trying to play politics with gross, blatant, misleading untruths. This year local government will receive total payments of around $ 194.92m. Last financial year it received $ 165.37m. This is a 17.8 per cent increase. This, of course, is made up firstly of $140m being untied lump sum payments to local authorities to be used in accordance with their own priorities and, secondly, other specific purpose payments. 
These figures do not include the temporary, non-recurrent payments such as those for the Regional Employment Development scheme given by the previous Government at a time when the country and the economy was on the brink of disaster and that Government was attempting to bale the country out by throwing money around with both hands. That money for the RED scheme and others was never meant to be anything other than money provided on a temporary non-recurring basis. It had been provided for the specific purpose of relieving unemployment rather than to assist local government in the carrying on of its normal on-going function. For anyone to suggest that it is part of local government's normal revenue is being blatantly untruthful. Such a scandalous abuse of the true facts by members of the Labor Party in South Australia and members of the Opposition in these 2 Houses of Parliament is utterly contemptible. It ought to be remembered that the Commonwealth Government retains the initiative where necessary to make special purpose grants to initiate programs in agreed areas of national need, to encourage innovation and to meet special needs. But the Government has made it absolutely clear that it will not use the special purpose grants as they have been used by the previous Government as a basis for centralism. 
Whilst the Labor Party is running around abusing the federalism policy, the local governments in my area are certainly sitting back waiting in somewhat joyful anticipation of the lump sum payments that are due to them. I will give but a few examples. The Victor Harbour Town Council in my electorate will receive $52,000 this year which is a 300 per cent increase. I am told that the Noarlunga City Council, which covers part of my electorate and part of the electorate of the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)-  and he is an excellent member- did not receive any specific purpose payments last year. That Council will receive $425,000 this year compared with $260,000 last year, an increase of some 63.4 per cent. I would like to see the State and federal Labor Party members, who have valiantly tried to discredit this Government, tell the people of that council area how they are going to be worse off under this Federal Government when they receive 63 per cent more money than they received last year, even taking into consideration the special grants that were handed out last year. 
-They would indeed. Let us take a look at the South Australian State Government. Premier Dunstan and his Ministers continually attack the Federal Government for every shortcoming of their own State Government's inadequacies. Only on Tuesday of this week we had a prime example of Dunstan 's scaremongering misrepresentation. A report which appeared on the front page of the  Advertiser  is a prime example of how the Premier is playing politics. The report stated: 

 Mr Dunstan said yesterday, the Federal Government had made provision in the first Bill which had not been there when the matter had been discussed at the June Premiers' Conference..... there is nothing in this Bill to prevent the Federal Government exempting further taxes until there is nothing left for the States. And the whole thing can be done by proclamation. The first thing we hear about it is from a notice in the  Gazette  and that's it. 

 Mr Dunstan, supposedly a lawyer and a Queen's Counsellor, cannot even read the Bill. Clause 8 of the Bill provides for minimum entitlements, so what he has said again is blatantly untrue.  Mr Dunstan  wrote a letter to the Prime Minister in which he said: 
It would not seem that you, the Prime Minister, intend to stretch the term surcharge to breaking point by declaring that it can encompass any income tax at all. If clause 5A of the Bill remains unchanged I suggest that you have not so much introduced a different interpretation as altered the entire concept of your tax sharing scheme. 
Dunstan alleges that this Government has altered the entire concept. Let us look at clause S to which he refers. It is this clause that enables the Government to declare a surcharge or rebate so that the yield or cost of these surcharges or rebates applied in appropriate circumstances by the Commonwealth will not be included in the base figure from which the States and local government entitlements will be calculated. This clause is in fact implemented for situations that could be of immense benefit to the States and it is either through Dunstan 's naivety or desire to misrepresent the situation for political purposes that he makes such statements. If, for example, tax concessions were given in a mini-Budget, which would in fact reduce the share going to the States unless they were exempted, the States would be worse off. This clause enables the Commonwealth to exempt such concessions from the allocations going to the States. This clause means that the States can have certainty as to the funds that will be going to them in any one year and they can therefore budget on that basis. 
It ought also to be remembered that the States were given a guarantee that never in the next 4 years would their revenue fall below the amount that the Whitlam Government formula would have yielded. Of course, they are getting some $89m more than the Whitlam formula would have provided. It is quite clear that Dunstan is talking absolute rubbish and such stupid statements do him little credit. But, of course, his unique ability to distort the facts into blatant untruths is becoming well known. The Federal Government is always the butt of the South Australian Government's abuse for that Government's inadequacies in many cases because of that State Government's gross incompetence. Let us look at one example of Commonwealth Government bashing. An article concerning Hugh Hudson, the Minister for Planning in South Australia appeared on the front page of the  Advertiser  on 17 August, the day on which this Government handed down the Budget. The article reads: 

 Mr Hudson was amplifying an address he gave to the biennial planning congress in Adelaide in which he predicted a savage' rise in the petrol price in today's Federal Budget and warned of a social disaster for low income and remote suburb families if prices reached $4 a gallon as in Italy. 
What absolute rubbish. The surcharge was not even contained in the Budget. We ought to look at what the South Australian Government has received. It has received $9.4m for water supply purposes, something no other State has received. A total amount of $50m has been given for sewerage throughout Australia. I have been told that the South Australian Government has allocated its share to the Labor held seats. If that is true what a fine example it is of an extremely fair State government, I must say. 
Let us look briefly at the South Australian Budget. South Australia finished the year with a $2.3m surplus. The estimated entitlement under the new tax sharing arrangements for 1976-77 is $438.3m- $75m more than last year. This is a 2 1 per cent increase. South Australia will receive $9. 8m more than it would have expected to receive under the previous arrangements. South Australia in general is in a better financial position than any other State. South Australia and local government is doing and has done very well under this Government. The sooner the South Australian Government grasps the responsibility that goes with the funds it is responsible for their own spending, the better off South Australians will be. These Bills are in the interests of all States and for that reason I support them. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I want to discuss a problem which I have already raised with the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in relation to primary producers. Many people consider that primary producers carry an unfair burden in regard to the estate duty they pay. Figures cited to me reveal that primary producers pay about 6 per cent of total income tax collected and yet pay about 30 per cent of estate duty collected. Of course, the problem arises because a farmer requires a physical asset- his land- before he can earn an income whereas, for example, a public servant has everything supplied by the State or Federal government and has to supply only his labour. At present, the Commonwealth Government applies a rebate of 50 per cent to primary producers whose estates do not exceed $140,000. The rebate then diminishes until it ceases where the estate exceeds $250,000. Two points arise. One is that the $140,000 limit has remained unchanged for a considerable period. Unlike income tax payments which the Government has now indexed, there is no such indexation of rebate limits. I think this should be the subject of Government consideration. 
I urge the Treasurer to investigate the possibility of indexing these limits in the next Budget. However, I am concerned that in these times of inflation a 50 per cent primary producer rebate which diminishes under Commonwealth legislation ought to be a flat 50 per cent rebate for all primary producers. I understand that the South Australian and Victorian State Governments already apply a flat 50 per cent primary producer rebate. I strongly urge that the Commonwealth investigate the possibility of doing likewise. I have received from the Minister assisting the Treasurer an undertaking that a proposal for a flat 50 per cent primary producer rebate will be reviewed when the Government examines the recommendations of the Asprey Taxation Review Committee. The amount of the present rural property rebate in estate duty assessments issued in the 1973-74 financial year was $1.9m. A rough estimate of the cost to the Government of making a primary producer rebate of a flat 50 per cent would be under $4m. It would mean that there would be less pressure to sell all or portion of what in many cases are viable farms to pay probate. It would encourage the primary producer in his later years to continue to improve his farm, knowing that his efforts would be of value to his family and would not all go towards paying probate. I reiterate that I urge the Government in its future considerations of this matter to review the plight of the Australian primary producer. 
-Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware that the water tank supplying Point McLeay collapsed on Monday night with the result that the town is running the risk of being without reticulated water for the summer? Will the Minister tell the House how much money was made available to the State of South Australia to provide an adequate water supply for Point McLeay and when that money was first provided? Whilst I understand that some emergency provisions are being made by that State, will the Minister use all the resources at his disposal to ensure that the State commences work immediately, as further reluctance by it to do so will cause great inconvenience and a grave risk of disease in the area? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What is the purpose of the Market Support Fund maintained by the Australian Wool Corporation. 
How is the Fund financed. 
Are records of individual growers' levy payments maintained; if so, for how long are these records kept. 
What is the present balance of the Fund, and what would be the possible state of the Fund if the Corporation was to sell its entire stockpile of wool in 1976 at current market prices. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware that the South Australian State Government is not allocating road grant funds in the way it proposed when seeking grants from the Commonwealth Government? Further, is the 
Minister aware of Press reports in which  Mr Virgo,  South Australia's Minister for Transport, has blamed the Commonwealth Government for cuts in funds to local council areas provided by both governments for rural local and rural arterial roads? Is the Commonwealth in fact responsible, as suggested by the State Minister? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. The move towards worldwide establishment of 200-mile off-shore economic zones has been considerably hastened by the recent unilateral declarations by the United States, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the European Economic Community. These unilateral declarations will place increasing pressure on Australia's off-shore fishery resources. Can the Minister inform the House of Australia's attitude to these recent declarations and what is being done to ascertain and develop Australia's off-shore fishing stocks for the benefit of the Australian fishermen and the Australian people, especially in relation to the recent research done off the south-east coast of South Australia? Can the Minister say when Australia will have a 200-mile zone? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. He is undoubtedly aware that in rural areas telephone connections more than 12 kilometres from an exchange can mean that enormous amounts are payable by new subscribers- about $7,000 in some cases. Is the Minister aware that Telecom Australia will spend about Sim on connections more than the 12-kilometre distance from exchanges and will receive about $500,000 in revenue from those involved? Is the Minister aware that about 366 000 telephone connections will be made this year? Therefore, if about $ 1.37 were added to each connection fee, people in the country would not have to be discriminated against. Will the Minister take up this matter with Telecom? 
-The Commonwealth Bureau of Roads (Repeal) Bill which repeals the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads Act is, in fact, a forerunner of a new concept in road and transport planning in this country. The Bill will allow the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads to be amalgamated with the Bureau of Transport Economics in order that the functions of the 2 former bodies may be carried out together. In the past undoubtedly there has been some overlapping of their individual functions. Their amalgamation should allow a more efficient use of the taxpayers' funds while not undermining the role of either body. The Australian Transport Report for 1975-76 gives an outline of the problems of planning and co-ordination of modes of transport in Australia. It is stated on page 12 of the report: 
The task of administering government policy to develop an efficient and economic transport system is not an easy one. 
The report goes on to state: 
The Commonwealth Government, in partnership with the States and local government and private enterprise, has a major responsibility for the co-ordination of the national transport system and for seeking resolution of national transport problems. Issues such as Australia's future transport energy requirements and the impact of overseas technology and motor vehicle design on Australian transport need to be assessed at national level. The most efficient allocation of resources in the transport sector can only be achieved if the right mode or balance of modes is engaged for a particular task. The community bears the burden of excessive cost, unwarranted monopoly or competition and undesirable social or environmental effects. The commuter pays higher fares than are necessary; the farmer and the manufacturer pay unnecessarily high freight charges which are in turn passed on to the customer. Industries highly dependent on freight for their inputs may have to operate under unduly high cost structures. High freight charges may further contribute to making the Australian producer uncompetitive by world standards. 
It is quite clear from that report that there is not only a need for a co-ordinated approach to the right mode or the correct balance of modes to be engaged for a particular transport needs; there will also be the cost to the commuter, the farmer and the manufacturer if wasted modes of transport are adopted. In the words of the report, it 'may further contribute to making the Australian producer uncompetitive by world standards'. The same report when outlining the Bureau of Transport Economics program for the 1975-76 year detailed programs it had undertaken which included: Assessment of urban public transport proposals; urban land use in relation to transport needs and services; a joint study with the Western Australian Director-General of Transport and the Western Australian Main Roads Department on 'evaluation of transport planning packages'. These are but a few of the activities undertaken by the Bureau of Transport Economics and they are examples of the ways in which the roles of the Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics can overlap. Further, it is quite clear that the Bureau of Roads is of similar opinion. Its report headed 'Roads in Australia, 1975' states on page 19 under the heading 'The Role of the Bureau': 
In our 1973 report a summary was provided of the origin of the Bureau and the role it had performed. In that report we emphasised that transport should be related to the goals and objectives of the community. We said: 'That transportation services are a means of assisting a community towards satisfying broad socio-economic and development goals. ' 
The report went on to state: 
In many cases increased mobility is most efficiently provided by roads and road transport. In 1973, we indicated the importance of considering roads and road transport in the context of the total transport services for the community. It is our view that our considerations must embrace land use, social and environmental factors, public transport and many other issues. 
It is quite clear from that paragraph that the Bureau considers its role is to ensure that the importance of the roads system in Australia is looked at in the context of the total transport services for the community. It is therefore not unreasonable, considering the statements by both bodies in their reports, to amalgamate the two in order that we might have an efficient co-ordinated approach to transport planning in Australia. 
I have had many approaches from the representatives of local government bodies in South Australia who are concerned that the amalgamation may prejudice the chances of their obtaining suitable independent advice as to the road needs of the Australian community. I, with many others, have taken up these matters with the Minister and I deal with them only briefly. The Local Government council was concerned that the Bureau should be attached to the Department rather than incorporated within the Department. It also considered that advice should be direct to the Minister for Transport rather than through a department which is responsible for other transport modes. The Minister quite clearly stated in his second reading speech: 
The new Bureau of Transport Economics will act independently of the Department of Transport in research activities and in giving advice to the Government. I repeat its Director will continue to have free access to me as Minister for Transport. This is the Government's clear policy and direction on this matter. In addition, the reports of the Bureau will continue to be made public to the same extent and in the same way as they are now. 
The Local Government Council also considered that all previous policy advisory functions should be maintained. Again the Minister had directly addressed himself to that problem, and he said in his second reading speech: 
The new body will continue the present functions of both the present Bureaux. Its duties will in part be to undertake evaluations of the Australian road situation as presently done by the Bureau of Roads. These will continue to be done, as in the past. 
Finally the council considered that the amalgamation should be effected by legislation rather than administrative decision. The Government considered this argument and the Minister said: 
No one has ever questioned the integrity or the independence of the Bureau of Transport Economics. It has always operated with the same degree of autonomy that the Bureau of Roads has enjoyed. The new BTE will be able to react to changing circumstances. It will be able to move with the times rather than be rigidly controlled through legislation. 
It would seem that the Minister has taken into consideration the arguments raised by the local government associations and he has clearly outlined the Government's action which takes account of the associations' views. Let me say at this stage that I, together with local government, am extremely concerned about the future planning of our roads system. However, I can also see that it must be considered together with other modes of transport in any overall policy consideration. The importance to my electorate of the roads system is enormous, as is the cost of construction and maintenance of that system. I am particularly concerned at the future planning and reporting of road needs as undertaken by the Bureau. It will be well known that while the Federal Government funds roads to a greater extent than does the South Australian State Government it has only a limited ability to specify those areas in which funds will be used. For example, under the Road Grants Act the present Commonwealth Government has allocated funds to urban and local rural roads. However, it does not have the power to determine on which roads work is undertaken. The State Government is not required to match any of those funds in those specific areas. That is amply shown by the figures given by the South Australian Minister of Transport,  Mr Virgo,  in the South Australian House of Assembly when answering a question on notice asked by the Liberal shadow Minister of Transport,  Mr Russack.  The allocation of funds in the 1976-77 financial year by the State and Commonwealth Governments was as follows: For rural local roads the Commonwealth allocation was $5. 3m and the State allocation was $3.1m; for urban local roads the Commonwealth allocation was $ 1 . 1 m and South Australia allocated $500,000; and for minor traffic engineering and safety improvements- MITERS- the Commonwealth allocated $1.5m and South Australia allocated nothing at all. 
They do not care. The honourable member is quite right. The Minister said further in his answer: 
It is anticipated that the Commonwealth Government allocation in these categories will be increased. 
Indeed, the Federal Minister has announced a 26 per cent increase for South Australia for rural local roads and a 100 per cent increase for urban local roads, in line with this Government's commitment to ensure that local government needs are adequately covered. The State Minister went on to say: 
State contribution to rural local and urban local roads will be decreased. State contribution to MITERS will be nil. 
That statement leaves absolutely no doubt in my mind as to what the Labor Government thinks of the rural area. It could not care less about the people who live in the rural area. It is intent on abandoning rural South Australia. But that contemptible disregard for the needs of those people is so unbelievably shortsighted. The Labor Government seems to forget that, while it panders to the interests of the declining number of its political supporters in some areas of Adelaide, those same people, when they have more leisure time, will be wanting more and more to use the roads which the State Government is intent on ignoring. 
But this farcical situation in South Australia does not stop there. I criticised the South Australian Government for reneging on its proposed road program for 1976-77. I further criticised Premier Dunstan when he tried to explain why South Australia had the highest consumer price index increase in December. He said, of course, that his Government had nothing to do with that. He blamed the Commonwealth Government's road funding program. We all know that Premier Dunstan tends to go off the deep end when he is criticised, and I was not to be disappointed on this occasion. He and his media machine spewed forth his standard abuse. All honourable members know the sort of thing I mean. But on this occasion he excelled himself. I shall quote from a copy of the telex which he sent to my local newspapers. I read its text in the local newspaper. I could not believe it. I had to get a copy of the telex which he actually sent. In it he said: 

 Mr Porter's comments regarding the Commonwealth aids road grants are even more indicative of his ignorance of Commonwealth-State finances. The States are required to meet conditions imposed by the Federal Government and one of those is that grants from the Federal Government must be met on a dollar for dollar basis. 
-Dunstan. I repeat that I am reading from the telex that he sent to my local newspapers. He said that Commonwealth road grant funding must be met 'on a dollar for dollar basis'. I do not believe that there is anyone in this House who does not know that that is a total lie. If the Premier means that the South Australian Government is required to match the Commonwealth Government on a dollar for dollar basis in providing funds for roads, that is totally wrong. As a Premier he ought to know better. 
The quota provisions of the Act require the South Australian Government to spend only a minimum of $93. lm of its own funds over the 3-year period ending this financial year. If $93. lm is spent, South Australia will receive the full Commonwealth grant of $11 1.61m. That means that the South Australian Government falls short of meeting the Commonwealth road funding for South Australia by $18. 5m. I ask the Premier: Where is the dollar for dollar basis? There is no requirement for the South Australian Government to match the Commonwealth grant on a dollar for dollar basis, either in total or by road category. Perhaps the Premier is referring to the fact that he has recently suggested to the Federal Government in support of his case for more road funds in 1977-78 that the South Australian Government will exceed its 3-year quota of $93. lm by approximately $5.8m. I point out, however, that his spending over the 3-year period will still be only of the order of $98. 9m, which is still $ 12.5m less than the Commonwealth grant. I ask again: Where is the dollar for dollar basis about which the Premier keeps talking? 
He may further claim that the expenditure on roads for the 1976-77 financial year- the last of the 3 years- will be $42.6m and thus exceed the Commonwealth grant of $38. 8m for that year. But that claim, of course, ignores the fact that the State's expenditure in the previous 2 years was well below the Commonwealth grant for those 2 years. In fact, as I have stated above, even taking account of his $5. 8m spending over the quota, he is still $ 12.5m short of the Commonwealth Government's grant. I find it absolutely incredible that the Premier can issue such a Press statement which is blatantly untrue and which shows his complete and total lack of comprehension of the facts of Commonwealth-State funding of roads. How can the Premier be so ignorant of the funding arrangements which have been operative for nearly 3 years? 
As if that were not sufficient indictment of the Premier, he further went on to say that the Federal Government- again I quote from the telex he sent- 'insisted that we put up vehicle registration charges in order to get an increased allocation of road funds'. That is another lie. I simply ask the Premier: Under what power would he suggest that the Commonwealth Government had been acting if it had insisted that the State Government put up vehicle registration charges? In what document was that insistance recorded and who made such a proposal to him? The answer, of course, is that the Federal Government at no stage insisted that the State Government put up motor vehicle registration charges. The Commonwealth Government does not insist on the areas from which funds for the State's quotas should come. The Premier will well know that he has recently boasted a surplus budget in South Australia. There was in fact no need at all to increase motor vehicle registration charges but rather he could increase his quota from his socalled surplus. 
I think it is a sad day when the Premier of South Australia shows by his own statement that he just does not know what he is talking about. He is responsible for the finances of the State, and yet he seems totally out of touch with Federal road grant aid. What is worse, he criticises others, pretending that he knows what is going on. This is now not a matter of politics or of negligence; rather he has shown himself to be grossly incompetent. If he thinks he has been matching Commonwealth road grant funds dollar for dollar, and in view of the fact that over the last 3 years he has been at least $ 12.5m short of meeting them dollar for dollar, I am terrified to think what the true state of South Australia's Budget really is.  His  dishonesty or incompetenceor both- does not look good for the future of the people of South Australia. That is just why we need the new Bureau to look after States like South Australia with dishonest Premiers to show us exactly where road funds are being spent. 
-With deference to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker  - 
Well,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I thought truth was some sort - 
-I withdraw it. 
-I withdraw. 
I rise to support Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1976-77 and Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1976-77. However, I wish to speak against the amendment which has been moved. I think it is amusing that the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  should say that there is no discernible threat to Australia in the near future and go on to question the Defence vote. I think I ought to remind the honourable member for Scullin that someone who should be rather closer to him than to me, John Curtin, in 1938 said: 
Defence expenditure must depend entirely on the conditions which prevail in the world from time to time. Obviously that must be the position. I say that any increase of defence expenditure after the Munich pact as far as Australia is concerned appears to me to be entirely unjustifiable and an hysterical piece of propaganda. 
John Curtin. In the same way, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  in criticising the Government's economic policy, came out with the usual sorts of words that we are used to hearing from him. He said that the Government was mutilating the public sector, that there ought to be cuts in indirect taxes and that there ought to be more government spending. Really one wonders whether they ever learn, especially in view of today's announcement that the consumer price index for the March quarter this year increased by 2.3 per cent compared with a 3 per cent increase in the CPI for the March quarter of last year. I think that is ample evidence that the Government 's economic policy is working. 
The matter that I wish to raise in this debate is one which is probably known to many honourable members in this House. It concerns the question whether the Commonwealth is getting value for the taxpayers money which it spends. There are probably 2 areas which one can look at, first, the collection of the funds and, secondly the spending of the taxes collected. I was concerned to read, in relation to the collection of gift duty, for example, that in the 1 976 financial year about $ 10.4m was collected and that the net cost of collection was approximately $850,000 or 8.1 per cent of collections. However, I consider that the problem is greater on the expenditure side. What I am really talking about, of course, is efficiency within the Public Service. I do not want to concentrate on personal efficiencies but rather the overall efficiency of the departments and the systems under which they operate. This really concerns how much of the funds allocated to a project actually gets to the people for whom the project is meant to cater. For example, when I learned that less than 50c in the dollar found its way to the end user under many of the Labor Government's Aboriginal programs, I thought that there was a great need for concern. Similarly, when I was in the Citizen Military Forces I was astounded at the enormous paper war that went on. Probably a greater amount of money is spent in some cases in keeping track of personal items- for example clothing- than the item is worth. I pick that example only as one that I know, but I am sure the same situation applies in many other departments. I believe the need for proper efficiency audits is overwhelming. 
I now look briefly at who is responsible for efficiency in the Public Service. Apart, of course, from the departments themselves, the 2 bodies one immediately looks at are the Public Service Board and the Auditor-General. The AuditorGeneral who is not responsible to a Minister but who reports directly to the Parliament, carries out normal regulatory or compliance audits. There are, however, 2 other sorts of audits with which I am concerned. They are efficiency audits and program audits. I shall deal first with program audits. Basically they are aimed at seeing whether the programs are actually doing what was intended. I understand that that sort of review is now being undertaken by the Prime Minister's Department and the new Department of Finance. That, of course, is in line with the suggestions contained in the report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration, known as the Coombs report. I understand that those departments will be looking at such matters as whether the programs are still relevant, whether they are doing what was intended, and so on. 
I shall leave for a moment the question of efficiency audits and whether the AuditorGeneral may be the appropriate person to undertake such audits. Apart from the AuditorGeneral, the Public Service Board also has responsibility for efficiency within the Public Service. Section 17 of the Public Service Act states that: 'In addition to such duties as are elsewhere in this Act, imposed on it, the Board shall have the following duties': 
To devise means for effecting economies and promoting efficiency in the management and working of departments by improved organisational procedures. 
A number of headings are given, some of which are: 'The avoidance of unnecessary expenditure' and 'the establishment of systems of check in order to ascertain whether the return for expenditure is adequate'. The Board has the duty 'to examine the business of each department and ascertain whether any inefficiency or lack of economy exists' and 'to maintain a comprehensive and continuous system of measuring and checking the economical and efficient working of each department, and to institute standard practice and uniform instructions for carrying out recurring work'. It would appear therefore that the Board has all the power to do just what I am concerned about. The question then is: Is it doing it? 
It seems to me that the Public Service Board is confronted with some rather basic conflicts. Initially, of course, the Board has to sit as employer, wage determiner and arbitrator over those employed in the Public Service. This itself could well be an area for government consideration. However, dealing with the area of efficiency audits, there seem to be even greater conflicts. If under section 1 7 the Board is to conduct the type of efficiency audits that I would hope it would be undertaking, is it in fact capable of doing so? 
Remembering that the Board is in part responsible for the establishment of the organisation structure under which the departments are operating, section 17 then says to it 'You also have a role to go back to the departments and see it they are operating efficiently'. Can it really be expected to come up with a totally objective and unbiased view when it is really sitting in judgment on itself? I do not believe under the present arrangements it can really do so. Let me quote from the report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration, known as the Coombs report. That report at page 47 talking of the Public Service Board, says: 
The Board sees itself as a primary source of expertise and guidance for departments and agencies in organisation and personal practice, and believes that its capacity to formulate  and assist departments to achieve greater efficiency depends upon the maintenance of harmonious working relations between the Board and departments. Harmony would be difficult to maintain if the Board were responsible for reports embodying serious criticism of departmental performanceparticularly if these reports were to reach a wider audience. 
Furthermore, it is evident that the Board cannot be wholly objective in its approach to section 17 studies. Much of what is done in departments is the result of the Board's own advice. 
The report goes on to say, referring to efficiency audits: 
The Board in conducting such an audit would to some extent be judging its own work. Apart from the influence which awareness of this conflict of interest may have on the reports themselves, it could have deleterious effects on the attitude of the Board to innovation. 
I also want to refer to the types of examinations which were made by the Public Service Board under section 17 inquiries. I would read 2 paragraphs from the Coombs report which indicate the deficiencies in the types of examinations made and further problems the Commission considered applied to the Public Service Board undertaking efficiency audits. It says: 
The Public Service Board has shown great reluctance to assess performance of departments and agencies. Indeed for some years no section 1 7 examinations were made. Now that they have been resumed they are seen as exercises in assisting and improving management rather than in auditing or assessing performance. They are carried out by a team headed by an external consultant and including the senior officer from the department or agency concerned. The form of the Board's participation emphasises its role of servicing the team although there is no reason to doubt its real contribution to the study itself. Furthermore, the report of the team is treated as strictly confidential to the department concerned and great care is exercised to preserve this confidentiality. It was only with much reluctance that the Board gave the Commission access to its reports enabling it to study the scope and methods of the inquiries. That scope was found to be extremely narrow. 
The Coombs report goes on: 
The reviews are predominantly concerned with rearrangements of the management structures and modifications of the procedures and practices within them. 
This is the important part- 
They are only marginally concerned with the basic systems and procedures governing the establishment of those structures or the recruitment to and the advancement of people within them. No major aspect of the Treasury's or, particularly, the Public Service Board's role appears to have been followed through in any of the reviews. Nor do they comment, even on a strictly confidential basis, on the work of senior officers with major managerial functions, or encompass the efficient administration of programs as opposed to that of selected administrative units. Since the Commission believes that it is primarily in better organisation that the economies leading to greater efficiency will be found, the narrowness of the studies is disappointing. 
It seems clear from what I have said and the views of the Commissioners in the Coombs report that the Public Service Board as it currently operates should not be the body responsible for efficiency audits. In fact the Public Service Board in its annual report for 1976 says so itself. At page 1 7 it says: 
The Board sees its own role in relation to the overall efficiency of the service as essentially that of management improvement at the central level, in the form expressed in section 1 7 of the Public Service Act. The Board has also indicated to the Royal Commission its view that the public efficiency audit function would be appropriately placed with the Auditor-General; if that function were so placed, the Board would accordingly see its own role and responsibilities as part of the joint management team with Permanent Heads as subject to appraisal. 
It would seem that the Coombs report substantially accepted the views of the Public Service Board and I now look to what is being done to implement these urgently needed proposals. 
Honourable members will remember that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a statement to this House on 9 December last year. He said that the Government had taken initial decisions on a number of the Royal Commission's recommendations. He said that the Government accepted in principle the need for efficiency audits and that officials had been asked to report to the Government on details of how such a system might be implemented. The Prime Minister said on that occasion: 
I believe that we have made substantial progress in our initial examination of the report and have set in train work to prepare such detailed plans. I have no doubt that, when implemented, these reforms will lead to a more efficient administration- a matter which should be of concern to all Australians. I add that as the Government examination of the Royal Commission's recommendations progresses, obviously there will be other reports to the Parliament concerning the decisions taken. 
I want to support the Governments moves for the implementation of efficiency audits to examine whether sections of departments or indeed whole departments are operating under the most efficient systems and procedures. This is going to require some people with very specialised knowledge. There will be some differences between private enterprise efficiency audits and Public Service efficiency audits, particularly as there is no similar price mechanism or competition at work. I understand the Auditor-General was in fact overseas in December last year to look at other countries and how they operate such efficiency audits. Honourable members will know that the Americans have recently undertaken just this sort of work. I therefore hope that this means that the Auditor-General will be given the job. I strongly support the Government's moves and I urge the Government to implement the proposals as soon as possible. This is one example of the Government having  to spend money to save money, but I am confident the returns involved in increased efficiency and greater value for money will be substantial. 
-Contrary to what the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  has just said, I think it will be quite clear from one example I shall give why some sections of the union movement have been so strong in their views about this clause and, I believe, so totally irresponsible. A situation in South Australia recently was brought to my attention.  Mr George  Apap, the State Secretary of the Federated Storemen and Packers Union of Australia, placed a ban on the delivery of goods to G. &amp; R. Wills and Company Ltd, an Adelaide wholesale softgoods distributor. It would be fair so say that  Mr Apap  is not held in very high regard in my electorate where his industrial action has caused severe hardship to many wool growers on more than one occasion. An article in the  Advertiser  on 26 February and another on 30 April this year pointed out that a national ban had been placed on the Wills company apparently as a result of  Mr Apap  being unable to sign up to his union employees of the Wills company. This ban was on the delivery of goods to the Wills store. On 30 April the statement in the Advertiser read: 
The State Secretary of the union,  Mr G.  Apap, said last night the ban had been imposed about two and a half months ago because the company had refused the union entry to its premises to recruit members. The extension of the ban would tie up billions of dollars worth of imports.  Mr Apap  said the union was demanding a national agreement for total union membership. 
It was only some 10 days later that a letter appeared in the Adelaide  Advertiser  under the heading 'Talks to Staff' in the following terms:  'Sir, we  refer to the statement by  Mr Apap  of the Storemen and Packers Union, which appeared in the  Advertiser  on 30 April concerning G. &amp; R. Wills and Company Limited. The staff associated with that company state that the comments of  Mr Apap  are completely false. It is absolutely untrue that the Storemen and Packers Union has been denied access. The staff have on 2 occasions been addressed on the premises by  Mr Apap.  The facts are that none wish to join his union as nearly all are members of an appropriate union. This letter is supported by the signatures of 1 12 employees. Signed T. C. Windsor, North Brighton. 
It is quite clear that  Mr Apap  had, in fact, banned deliveries to the Wills company because he could not get people employed by that company who were apparently members of the Shop Distributive and Allied Employees Association, the Federated Clerks Union and probably other unions to join his union. It appears that because they were happy as members of those unions and did not want to join his union he considered that he would attempt to put G. and R. Wills out of business and therefore run those unionists who refused to join his union out of a job. In doing so he totally misrepresented the situation to the Press. It is quite clear that the secondary boycott in this case was applied by refusing to allow suppliers to deliver goods to G. and R. Wills by asking members of his union employed by companies supplying Wills to refuse delivery of their goods. 
This case would seem to fall within this proposed section of the Act. I therefore wholeheartedly support the Government's action. One can immediately see why executive members of some unions have publicly come out against this proposed section when the likes of  Mr Apap,  by what appears to be totally irresponsible action, apparently cause completely false information to be published and, further, through bans, withhold supplies to a business just because  Mr Apap  was trying to convince members of one union to leave and join his union. He seems totally unconcerned at the effects it would have on the jobs of the unionists employed and seems more concerned about his own power in increasing the membership of his own union. I believe that this is a classic example of a secondary boycott which ought not be allowed to continue in the Australian business community. This situation has nothing to do with an employer-employee dispute. Industrial blackmail cannot be afforded in the Australian community any longer. I urge the Government to proceed with this proposed section and the Bill as fast as possible. 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the extremely serious threat posed by the American lucerne aphid which has now been discovered in South Australia, New South Wales and Queensland? This insect puts at risk the Australian lucerne hay, green fodder and seed crops worth in excess of $ 100m. In addition to the decision of the Standing Committee of the Australian Agricultural Council of 4 May, will the Minister take urgent steps to set up a high level committee to co-ordinate Commonwealth and State work to control this new aphid? What financial and other assistance will the Minister give in conjunction with the States to control this threat to the rural areas? 
-We have heard the same thing again from the Australian Labor Party, which has the worst history of any government in this country in helping the farmer, welcome the decision of the Government, as implemented by this Bill, to continue for a further 5 years from 1 July the payment of a bounty on production of phosphate fertilisers for use in Australia at the rate of $12 a tonne. Referring briefly to the history of the subsidy, when it was introduced by the coalition Parties in 1963 the objectives of the bounty were stated to be to encourage the most economic use of agricultural resources, to stimulate pasture improvement, and to help increase productivity and the expansion of rural production. In December 1974 the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  announced the discontinuance of the bounty. So much for what the previous  speaker  said. In fact, at that time the then Prime Minister said that the aims of the bounty had been achieved and that it was no longer appropriate for this extensive charge to be carried by the taxpayer. In 1973-74 bounty payments totalled almost $67m. 
In the interim report of the Industries Assistance Commission on 31 July 1975, two commissioners recommended the restoration of the bounty at the previous rate pending completion of the inquiry. They proposed that, if practicable, restoration should be retrospective to 1 January 1975. Again, what did the Labor Government do? Absolutely nothing. It was only after the election, when the coalition Parties were put on the government benches, that on 10 February 1976 the Government announced restoration of the bounty. In announcing the Government's decision the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  stated that the bounty would apply on sales to users from 11 February 1976 until 30 June 1977, by which time the Government would have considered the Commission's final report. Of course, during that period, and indeed since then, the Labor Party has continually ridiculed the coalition Parties for giving aid to farmers. It has taken great pride in quoting the amount of subsidy to some users. It was the Labor Party which inflamed inflation in this country and did a great deal to reduce the income of the farming community. Farmers were not protected against inflation. They were faced with the cost of their inputs rising enormously in both machinery and labour, with no matching increase in their incomes. They did not get any wage rises but still the Labor Party removed the subsidy. 
I ought to point out to the Labor Party that the bounty is not a payment to the farmers, as Opposition members seem to think, but rather a reduction in the cost that the farmer has to pay for one of his imput components. As to the benefit arising to the different farmers, the IAC report stated at page 34: 
In general it would appear that the effects of the bounty on income distribution within the farm sector are likely to be small, and not advene, and therefore do not constitute grounds for rejecting the bounty as a method of assistance. 
The Labor Party would do well to drop its cheap political gimmickry in relation to this matter. I want to refer briefly to the basis of the bounty and to the IAC report which shows that the commissioners are obviously convinced of the justification for the bounty. The report states: 
In assessing whether the Australian Government should continue to provide assistance for the consumption of phosphatic fertilisers, the Commission has considered both the economic efficiency and welfare implications. It has concluded, on efficiency grounds, that assistance for the consumption of phosphatic fertilisers should be continued. It has reached this conclusion on the basis of its judgment that, given present levels and pattern of assistance to Australian industry generally and the low-cost status of the major phosphate-using activities, removal of the present assistance would lead to less efficient use of Australian resources. However, it does not favour increased assistance. 
The Commission recognises that a fertiliser subsidy has disadvantages but assesses these to be small relative to the advantages of maintaining encouragement for the use of  resources in a relatively efficient sector of the economy. It believes the desirability of bounty assistance should not be judged by reference to some ideal configuration of the economy or ideal form of assistance, but rather by reference to the existing situation and the likely practical alternatives. 
Further it states: 
The Commission sees tariff-induced distortions as being removed only gradually. It has no evidence that demonstrably better measures will be found easily or quickly. On the other hand, it believes the opportunities to identify alternative and more efficient measures should arise as assistance for rural industries is reviewed. Progress in this area and in reducing high protection to import-competing industries would need to be taken into account when the bounty is reviewed. 
In other words, the Commission is saying that once the protection to the other sectors of Australian industry is reduced and so the burden borne by the farmers of such protection is likewise reduced, this is one factor to be considered in a review of the bounty. I am sure that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  will say more on that. 
Yes, and with feeling. I think it is worth recording the amount paid under the subsidy in recent years. In 1974-75, $29.5m was paid. But it ought to be remembered that in that year the subsidy was taken off by the Labor Government in December. 
-The Labor Government did in December 1974. In 1975-76, $20. lm was paid but, of course, the subsidy was reintroduced only in February of that year. In 1 976-77 to the end of April, $27.9m was paid in subsidy. The projected figure for 1977-78 is $50m. But that figure was based on the subsidy on an  ad valorem  20 per cent basis and, in fact, it may be a little higher than the actual figure given the $12.00 bounty which is the subject of this Bill. I want to look very briefly to the future supplies of phosphate rock in Australia and particularly at the availability and possibility of using the deposits from Queensland owned by Broken Hill South 's subsidiary, Queensland Phosphate Ltd. The development program of that deposit has been inhibited, especially by the Labor Government when it virtually stopped the project when, as I understand it, the company could have made some export sales and thus recovered some of its setup costs to the benefit of the Australian producer and, of course, the Australian community in general. I am told that the company has spent some $70m so far and it is obviously in Australia's interests to become self reliant with a source of supply within Australia instead of relying entirely on Nauru and Christmas Island deposits. 
There are problems which, as I understand it, have not yet been resolved. These are mainly technical and quality problems. From the trials so far concluded it has been shown that the deposits could be used for superphosphate of slightly lower grade, but the tests left unresolved the problems concerning wear on rock mills caused by inclusions of chert, a hard siliceous rock, in the phosphate. Also, I understand that there is an excessive evolution of fluorine during the processing, following which the gas offtake flues become quickly blocked with silica deposits. In addition, there are problems with severe setting of the product in storage prior to sale. So it would seem that more work needs to be done before this deposit can be used commercially in Australia. However, I am sure that the Government will try to assist in bringing that Queensland deposit into use. Finally, I want to congratulate the Government for continuing the bounty. It may in future have to review the size of the bounty depending on the cost of superphosphate from the supplier. However, the undertaking in this Bill is of great assistance to the farming community in Australia in that we will not have the threat of the subsidy being on and off as occurred under the previous Labor Government. 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to reported statements by the Premier of South Australia that South Australia had been especially hard hit in the Budget? Is there amy foundation to these statements? 
-I ask the Minister for Transport whether he is aware that the Kingscote Council on Kangaroo Island has suffered a reduction in road funds this year. The Minister will be aware of the difficult financial plight of many local councils in South Australia and elsewhere in Australia in the financing of their road programs. Can the Minister inform the House whether local government in South Australia has a better deal from the Commonwealth in its 1977-78 road allocations than it has received in the past? Can South Australian local government and the users of local roads look forward to increasing financial assistance for their road needs? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 13 September 1977: 
Has the Canberra College of Advanced Education purchased a BMW motor car during the last 2 years; if so, what was the purchase price paid and did it include sales tax. 
If such a vehicle was purchased and, if it is to be used by the Principal for official purposes, where is the car garaged. 
Which Commonwealth and State education institutions of the status of the Canberra College of Advanced Education provide a car to be used for official purposes by their respective principals and what is the make and type of the vehicle so provided. 
-The debate on whether Australia should supply uranium to overseas countries has been wide and far ranging. Both sides have thrown up evidence which they suggest supports their claims. At this stage of the debate I do not want to repeat or to incorporate in  Hansard  more statistics; rather I want to get back to what appears to me to be the basic question. I do not believe that there is a member of this Parliament who would suggest that the world is not facing an energy crisis. Most people recognise that, on current information available, about midway throught the 1980s the world demand for oil will be greater than the supply from new discoveries. Therefore, one of the most important energy sources on current estimates will begin to dry up. Of course, this will not happen overnight; it could be over a matter of decades. However, the problem begins to become evident. Let us look for a moment at the situation closer to home. The Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony)  mentioned in his speech at the ANZUS Conference in September of this year in relation to Australia: 
The only major shortfall in supply of energy sources over the next 10 years will be in crude oil. 
He went on to state: 
Individual States may suffer shortfalls in other fuels. Already Queensland is having difficulties with natural gas supplies, New South Wales and South Australia could also experience natural gas shortfalls in the late 1980s if no further reserves are discovered in the Cooper Basin. 
Already my own State of South Australia has had to import oil to supply a major proportion of its major energy requirements. However, it is clear that in total we have an excess supply of energy resources for our current and foreseeable needs. One of these resources is obviously uranium. Looking at the problem narrowly, one can say that we have enough energy in Australia, that we will be okay for a good time yet and therefore we are in a very good position, so the Opposition argues, to make other countries change their ways. We and the energy deficient countries are aiming to conserve energy and to use the known existing sources more effectively. Similarly, those countries, together with us, are endeavouring to develop new energy sources such as wind and solar power. However, it appears at this stage that those alternatives are some distance off. Therefore, what do the energy deficient countries use for power when the energy resources start running out and technological advances have not uncovered new sources? 
The Opposition seems to argue that whilst there is a risk, however slight, mvolved in the sale of our uranium, we ought not to proceed. Bearing in mind that it will take some years before the newly mined uranium is actually exported and, further, that we possess about 20 per cent of the Western world's known reserves of low cost uranium, what then is the sort of judgment which the Opposition is asking us to make? What are the alternatives? Is the Opposition really suggesting that we can sufficiently retreat to a less energy reliant state of existence in the time available before the energy crisis becomes crucial? It is hard for Australians to understand how the people in New York, Chicago, London, Paris and Tokyo- any of the large capital cities- would feel if they could hear the Opposition arguing that we should withhold an energy source from them? Let us take as an example a person who lives in a 15-floor apartment in the middle of New York. Can we really say: 'Look, I am sorry, but because there are some risks in using uranium, and even though the risks may be less than those in driving a motor vehicle, we are not supplying you with this basic source of energy. You will have to walk up the stairs and not use the lift. You will have to open a window and not use the air conditioning. In fact, we strongly suggest that you move back into the country to live'? That is a fairly emotional example but surely that is what a real energy crisis is about. It is not a crisis when it starts to affect the money in people's pockets. It is a crisis when it starts to affect people 's lives. 
It is hard for us in Australia to understand such a situation. But the question must arise as to whether we really have the right to refuse to supply an energy source demanded by an energy deficient country when such an energy source is in excess of our own demands. On what basis does the Opposition say that we can decide how to source an energy supply for a certain country better than that country can decide itself? Professor Titterton, Professor of Nuclear Physics at the Australian National University since 1950, in a letter to the  Canberra Times  in September of this year, stated: 
Twenty countries already have nuclear power stations and are steadily increasing their investment in this vitally important power source. A further 14 are currently building their first nuclear station. All have looked at the waste problem and have decided that it poses no impediment to the development of the nuclear industry. Does the small Australian anti-uranium lobby believe that it knows better than these 34 governments what is best for their peoples? 
The Government has made a well argued thoughtful decision incorporating the most stringent safeguards yet produced to control the future mining and sale of uranium anywhere. 
As I understand the situation, at the present time there are some 184 nuclear power units in operation in 20 countries. In all there are about 500 nuclear power units either in operation, under construction or on firm order in 34 countries. We are not looking at an energy source which some countries may want in the future or may be reliant on in the future. People are already reliant on energy that is generated by these power plants. The question then arises, even if the Opposition's argument is accepted: What do we achieve by refusing to supply uranium to the rest of the world? Would our non-supply mean that people would be more alert to the problems and dangers inherent in the use of uranium? I read from the first Fox report. In its final judgment on mining and milling it states: 
The hazards of mining and milling uranium if those activities are properly regulated and controlled, are not such as to justify the decision not to develop Australian uranium mines. 
When referring to the dangers inherent in the conversion enrichment and fabrication it stated: 
Hazards to members of the public in the general environment arise at all stages of the nuclear fuel cycle. However, few problems seem likely to arise from conversion enrichment or fuel fabrication plants. 
Dealing with reactor safety the report stated: 
The hazards involved in the ordinary operation of nuclear power reactors, if those operations are properly regulated and controlled, are not such as to justify a decision not to mine and sell Australian uranium. 
Finally, dealing with the problem of radioactive waste disposal it stated: 
While we do not think that the waste situation is at present such as to justify Australia wholly refusing to export uranium, it is plain that the situation demands careful watching and, depending on developments, regular and frequent assessment. 
Clearly, the Fox report does not support the Opposition. I quite openly admit that the storage of the waste products does concern me. However, I quote from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission 's journal of July 1976. An article by Messrs Alfredson and Levins, dealing with the waste disposal problems, states: 
Many methods for ultimate disposal have been proposed, but many nations consider that the best policy for the near term is interim storage in man-made structures at or near the surface of the earth. 'Engineered storage', as this approach is called, has the advantage that continuous surveillance can be maintained and solid wastes can be more easily cooled at a time when the heat generation rate is greatest. It also has the advantage of providing more time for detailed evaluation of the many options available for elimination or ultimate disposal of wastes. 
The article goes on: 
All the necessary technology is available for constructing and operating a retrievable storage facility for periods of up to 100 years. 
In the United States, assuming storage in water cooled ponds or air cooled vaults, the land requirement for a retrievable surface storage facility is estimated to be 40 hectares up to the year 20 10. Similarly in the United Kingdom it has been estimated that, in the year 2000 when threequarters of their electricity will bie generated by nuclear power, the total land area occupied by interim liquid storage tanks and ponds containing waste canisters will only be 1.7 hectares - 
That is about two acres- about the area of two football grounds. 
The end of the report states: 
Storage of high activity liquid wastes in tanks of modern design is safe and satisfactory in the short term until facilities for solidifying waste and engineered storage are constructed in the 1980s. The required technology is already available. This interim solution will provide up to 100 years for extensive assessment and evaluation of the wide range of permanent solutions which have been proposed in order to determine the most acceptable method for ultimate disposal. 
The Fox report and the information from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission do not seem to support the Opposition's call for a suspension of the reintroduction of mining and export of uranium. Perhaps the other factor I should mention is whether our refusal to export will prevent proliferation. The Ranger inquiry in its first report stated that proliferation was the most serious danger in the nuclear industry. It was also stated in the Fox report that if Australia were not to export her uranium, this would have little if any impact on the projected expansion of the nuclear power industry. If we did not export, I doubt that we would reduce the risk of proliferation at all. 
There is also the very serious consideration as to whether a decision not to export uranium could indirectly increase the threat of proliferation. If we do not supply uranium, particularly if this puts upward pressure on uranium prices, countries desperate for energy could well intensify their research on the fast breeder reactor and fuel reprocessing. Such a premature move towards the plutonium economy would increase the risk that plutonium would fall into the wrong hands and possibly be used for weapon making. The fast breeder reactor is a great deal more efficient than the conventional thermal reactors now in use. It enables about 50 times more energy to be extracted from uranium than does the thermal reactor. As a major proportion of the plutonium produced is suitable for weapon making, a move to the plutonium economy would add to the risk of proliferation. I understand that at present there are no commercial fast breeders in operation, but demonstration reactors are operating in France, the United States of America, the United Kingdom and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 
Finally, I turn to the safeguards. Quite frankly, I believe an effective Opposition would be endeavouring to suggest more effective solutions if it believed that our policy did not go far enough, rather than merely offering blank rejections. The Government's 1 1 -point safeguard policy is extremely comprehensive. As far as I am aware the Opposition has not suggested an alternative. Of course, it did put up a proposal originally but our safeguards go beyond those suggested by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E.G. Whitiam). 
The Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry identified a number of defects in the then existing safeguard arrangements. The Government has overcome these in its safeguard policy by introducing measures going beyond existing multilateral safeguard arrangements. The Ranger Inquiry said, and the Government has agreed, that it is both essential and possible to make safeguard arrangements more effective. The Government's safeguards policy does just that. The world requires and demands our uranium. I believe that in the present circumstances we would be acting irresponsibly if we did not supply it 
-Following his visit to the United States to attend the International Monetary Fund conference, can the Treasurer tell the House what prospects there are for renewed investments by American companies in Australia? Are there any statistics available which may show the extent of such planned investments? 
-The purpose of these Bills is to provide for the imposition of a levy on the Australian production of sunflower, soy bean, safflower seed, rapeseed and linseed. This levy, together with a matching Commonwealth contribution, will be used to provide for the establishment and the implementation of an expanded oilseed research scheme. In other words, the money raised by the levy is an investment in the future of the oilseed industry. Before detailing the history and purposes of the Bill I think it would be useful if I were briefly to give details of the industry. Vegetable oils are obtained from the crushing of the oilseeds and are used principally in the production of cooking oils, salad dressing and margarines. The oils are also used for non-food industrial purposes such as lubricants, inks, paints, linoleums, pharmaceuticals and cosmetics. 
Oilseed crops- this is a relatively new industry in Australia- are grown in the higher rainfall parts of the wheat belts, the slopes and tablelands of New South Wales and Queensland, and inland irrigation areas. Whilst New South Wales and Queensland are the principal oilseed producing States, South Australia, Victoria and Western Australia now produce significant quantities of sunflower, rape seed and linseed. My own electorate of Barker in the south-east of South Australia has a significant population of oilseed growers. Production of oilseed was not significant until the mid-1960s. Following the implementation of wheat delivery quotas in 1 969 and in response to favourable oilseed prices on world markets, domestic output expanded rapidly until 1971-72 when production was a record 340,349 tonnes. 
Since 1971-72 production has fluctuated at lower levels owing to relaxation of wheat quotas and poor seasonal conditions and disease, although there was a sharp recovery in sowings in 1974-75 resulting from a temporary period of higher prices. Production in 1976-77 was estimated at 210,900 tonnes and the winter oilseed sowings for this year, according to Department of Primary Industry estimates, are expected to have increased significantly in response to higher prices at the time of sowing. In fact by April of this year oilseed prices were at the highest level since the record prices of October 1 974. However, since then, prices have fallen in response to such market factors as an overreaction by consumers to the higher prices, an ample world supply of grains and good prospects for the next United States soya bean crops. The value of production of the industry is now over $40m annually. 
In the longer term demand for oilseed products should increase with the growth of the world economy. But world supplies are also expected to increase, mainly from Malaysian palm oil and South American soya bean. Domestic demand for oil is presently strong, especially for margarine production, which has risen rapidly with the effective abolition of margarine production quotas. Very good prices have been received for locally produced soya bean and sunflower seed. With the exception of 1971-72, Australia has been a net importer of oilseeds and products. Therefore, it is clear that this industry can be a significant import substitution industry, although it should be remembered that the oils which have been the largest components of imports in recent years have mainly been soya, coconut and palm oil. Oilseeds are grown mainly under a system of contracts which normally incorporate minimum price guarantees but allow for escalation to reflect price levels at the time of delivery. As with other primary products, domestic market prices for oilseeds are largely determined by world prices. However, it is interesting to note that there has been no major assistance to this industry other than the tariff on certain vegetable oils and, of course, that assistance which applies to the rural sector generally. 
These Bills come from a proposal for an expanded oilseed research scheme which was put forward in June 1975 by the oilseeds committee of the Australian Wheat Growers Federation. It was after consultations between the appropriate industry organisations and the State and Commonwealth governments that a scheme along the lines of the existing statutory rural research schemes was developed for the oilseed industry. The fundamental provisions of the scheme were endorsed by the State Ministers at the meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council in February 1 977. At this stage I should like to congratulate the members of the oilseed industry for the hard work and thought which has gone into these proposals which will assist the future prospects of the industry. Certainly in my area, both the lower and upper south-east protein and oilseeds committees are an extremely active and forward thinking group of people. I have no hesitation in supporting these Bills which will allow the Government to provide, on a matching dollar for dollar basis, expenditure on approved research projects. This is a recognition by the Government of the initiative shown by the industry, and I welcome it. 
Of course it is the established policy of the Government to foster schemes such as this to undertake research into the problems that exist in rural industry. This is not the first such joint approach that has been undertaken by the Government with industry. Primary producers will be well aware of similar schemes which are already operating successfully. This is certainly the case in respect of the wool, meat, wheat, dairy, pig and chicken meat industries, to mention a few. The initial rate of the levy has been set at $ 1 per tonne with provision for it to be varied by regulation up to a maximum of $2 per tonne. The levy is payable by the grower of leviable oilseeds delivered to another person or processed by or on behalf of the grower. In order to obviate the administrative costs associated with the collection of small amounts of levy moneys, provision has been made for exemption of levy payments if the weight of the leviable oilseeds delivered to a person during a levy year is less than IS tonnes. To facilitate the collection of the levy, provision has been made for firms or organisations or persons to whom oilseed is delivered to be liable to pay the Commonwealth an amount equal to the levy payable by the grower. This of course will be recoverable from the grower and can be deducted from payments due to the grower. 
The Oilseeds Research Committee which the Bill establishes will make recommendations concerning the expenditure of the funds raised by the levy and the matching Commonwealth contributions. It is thought that the Government's contribution might approach $200,000 in an average year which, together with the levy, will mean some $400,000 may be available for oilseed research under the scheme. The research committee will consist of nine members. Five members, one from each of the producing States of New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia, will represent the oilseed growers. The remaining four members will represent the Australian Agricultural Council, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, Australian universities and the Department of Primary Industry. The members of the Committee will be appointed by the Minister for Primary Industry for a three year term. The main functions of the Research Committee will be to make recommendations to the Minister regarding the allocation of funds for research purposes. It is envisaged that the Research Committee will meet twice a year to co-ordinate the national research program. The funds will be used for scientific, economic or technical research relating to the oilseed industry. It is in this area that I think the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  is wrong. It seems to me that this research will be just what the oilseed growers want. 
There are important problems to be overcome in this industry. As I have already suggested, it is a great compliment to the industry that being aware of these problems and recognising the need for a planned research program, they have been responsible for taking the initiative in submitting their proposals to the Government which are now the subject of these Bills. This is a significant step which will be of great benefit to the oilseed industry. I welcome the Government's initiative. 
I want to speak on a matter which has long been of concern to me and which I have raised in this chamber on many occasions. I refer to the export of livestock from this country. The trade in livestock has increased enormously in recent times, due largely to the increasing demand from the newly rich Middle East. The export trade to Middle East countries is essentially livestock because they do not have the facilities for storing and handling carcass meat; nor is there the demand for carcass meat. However, the facilities are being provided by the governments concerned and in the long term, for economic reasons, it will be carcass meat that is supplied to those markets. This is important and the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union ought to remember that the more livestock we export to the Middle East, and the larger the number of consumers we encourage to eat meat, the greater will be the opportunity to export carcass meat in the future. 
Turning to the Japanese market, many beef producers in Australia will have heard the argument that two year old cattle sell for enormous amounts in Japan and that we ought to be exporting live to Japan to get a share of that market. However, the situation is not that simple. At the moment the AMIEU has a ban on the export of live cattle to Japan because it sees it as a carcass market. The Japanese have indicated an interest in importing cattle for feed lots. However the unions have said that unless all abattoirs are working to capacity they will actively endeavour to prohibit such a trade. Honourable members will be aware that Australia has a very restricted quota of carcass meat to Japan, and if we are able to export live cattle to Japanese feed lots this may be a way in which we can influence the Japanese consumer to eat more meat and therefore raise the demand for carcass meat. As an added consequence there would be an increase in the demand for AMIEU workers. However, the union, which consistently seems to adopt a short term inward looking policy, persists in hindering the future of its members 'jobs. 
But there is not only a union problem; there are other problems. The Japanese are refusing to import Australian cattle for feed lots because of contagious bovine rhino-tracheitis. However, I believe the Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation is overcoming this health problem. Japan has taken a small number of breeding stock from Australia and at the present time I understand it is importing store stock from the United States of America for fattening. These cattle are actually flown to Japan. I am told that the quota the Japanese set on the importation of live cattle is about 5,000 per year. That quota has a tariff imposed on it and any over-quota imports have a higher and almost prohibitive tariff imposed. 
In the Japanese domestic market Japanese breeders sell calves to feed lot farmers when the calves are about nine months old. The feed lot farmers fatten them for about 15 months and then sell them. If Australia is allowed to supply the feed lot farmer with vealers to fatten themselves, the Japanese feed lot farmer will be able to buy more cattle for less and so increase his income. Thus some of the political pressure by the feed lot farmers to reduce meat imports and our quota to Japan will be taken off the Japanese Government. Of course, the breeders may fear that an influx of live vealers will reduce the price paid to them. However, I shall explain why they need not be disadvantaged. 
It is important to remember that the Japanese wholesale price of beef after slaughter is about three times the price paid in the Australian domestic market. Therefore, obviously, there is a great potential for the Australian producer to export to Japan, either carcases or live. 
A further complicating factor is the Japanese stabilisation schemes. As I understand the situation, basically there are two stabilisation schemes. One is on the price of meat and the other is on cattle sold to feed lots. The stabilisation scheme on meat prices works through the government agency releasing or withholding meat from the market in order to maintain the price of meat within a range of prices previously decided. Similarly, with calves sold to feed lot farmers, the price to the breeder is guaranteed and if the sale price is less than the guaranteed price a deficiency payment is made by the authority. There is some suggestion that the funds which are provided by the regional and central governments in Japan for such deficiency payments are raised through the tariffs on imported livestock and carcass meats. However, it seems clear to me that if Australia exported cattle to be fattened in feed lots by Japanese farmers, although the influx of large numbers of such cattle could depress the price of Japanese calves for the breeders, the price to the breeders could be maintained by deficiency payments which in fact could be funded by the tariff on such imported beef cattle. Thus the political problem which could have arisen from the breeders is overcome. 
The increase in throughput in the Japanese market would mean that the Japanese consumer would be able to obtain cheaper beef, the Australian beef producer would be in a much better position in having a market for his beef and the Japanese breeder would still receive a reasonable price for his cattle. Of course, the ordinary Japanese consumer would be much better off in that a lot more meat would be provided at a reduced cost. This could be implemented by the feed lot farmers buying Australian livestock, at less than they are currently paying, from Japanese breeders. The Japanese cattle breeders can have the price made up with a deficiency payment and they can still supply at a cheaper price. The feed lot farmer can make a profit probably larger than at present and still supply to the abattoirs cheaper than at present The distribution system in Japan in retailing the meat can still make the enormous mark-ups and still supply the Japanese consumer at less than today's costs. It is interesting to note that, for historical reasons which I will not go into, the wholesale to retail margin in Japan is up to $4 per kilogram whereas in Australia the figure is somewhere around 60c per kilogram. 
I understand that the Japanese Government has agreed that such a system could work. However it is concerned about the administrative problems in implementing it. Therefore I urge the Government, the Austraiian Meat and Livestock Corporation and the Japanese officials to continue to work for the benefit of the Australian beef producer and the Japanese consumer in overcoming the administrative problems of the implementation of such a scheme. 
I rise on a matter of great importance to this House. It is certainly a matter of great importance to the farmers of South Australia and undoubtedly to farmers in other parts of Australia who have been grievously affected by the drought which the country is suffering at the moment. A great number of farmers in South Australia are affected by the drought and it is unfortunate that South Australian politicians- only Australian Labor Party politicians in South Australia- seem to be attempting to play politics over the plight of those who have been affected by the drought. Last week in this House the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  asked the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  whether the South Australian Government had provided the $ 1.5m assistance required to be provided by the State before the Commonwealth Government would give assistance over and above that amount. The Minister for Primary Industry said that the South Australian Government had not provided that amount. 
In another place, on 11 October,  Senator McLaren  said that the Minister for Primary Industry was 'criticising the South Australian Labor Government because it has not carried out its obligation to give assistance to South Australian farmers under the drought relief scheme'. Honourable members will know that the Commonwealth under the agreement will not and cannot provide assistance until a State government has spent $1.5m. In answer to the Minister for Primary Industry, who said that the South Australian Government had been tardy in applying assistance to those affected by drought, the Minister of Agriculture in South Australia,  Mr 
Brian Chatterton, said that that was not so. In a Press release the Minister for Agriculture said: 
The State Government has exceeded by $600,000 the amount of money it had to pay out for drought relief before getting grants from the Commonwealth Government. 
It would seem that he thinks that he is entitled to the matching grants now. Further on in that Press release he said: 
. nearly $900,000 has already been received by farmers. The rest is in the pipeline - 
I repeat that: 'the rest is in the pipeline'- for other successful applicants under our State scheme. 
He went on to say that $236,000 had been paid out in freight rebates and $35,000 for slaughter schemes. Anyone who knows anything about mathematics knows that $900,000 plus $236,000, plus $35,000 does not add up to $1.5m. Yet the Minister for Agriculture in South Australia is saying that because these grants have been approved the farmers should receive the Commonwealth grant on a dollar for dollar basis or whatever the grant may be. He has said that the $1.5m has been spent, yet in his own Press release he is saying that it has not been spent. He says that only $900,000 has been spent. He says the grants have been approved. 
Now we are not going to pay out- the Commonwealth has never paid out- on a book entry in the State government's books. The money has to be paid out. I ask the House to consider those affected by the drought in South Australia. Is it the sort of thing with which the South Australian Labor Government ought to be playing politics? I do not believe it is and I do not believe the people of South Australia think it is. I askonourable members to look at the South Australian Minister's Press statement. He says that he has paid out $900,000. He knows or he ought to know- it appears that  Senator McLaren  does not know either- that this is not the case. I must admit it is not very difficult to show that these people are incompetent. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) ( 10.41 )-Last week in this Parliament I raised the matter of obscene publications- pornography- and asked the Parliament to give some consideration to the morality level of our society. I feel some obligation to raise the matter again tonight owing to the concern expressed by citizens outside this Parliament. I do not wish to cast any reflections upon members of the parliament because two or three of them showed some interest in the matter, but of course this is a very busy period. As I say, most of the interest was shown outside this Parliament. Just about every second attendant asked me about this matter, including the papers from which I had quoted. I was also contacted by two television stations and two radio stations. I also received letters from people outside my electorate. Although this matter was initiated from a complaint that I received from constituents in my electorate, most of the contact I received about this matter came from people outside my electorate. 
I want to impress upon the House that I am not starting a personal crusade on this matter I am simply trying to handle the problems within my own electorate. I also know how to involve other members of this House because I told the people who contacted me to take up the matter with their own member and that if they did not receive any satisfaction to let me know and I would see what I could do about it. So I am quite sure that other honourable members will be hearing something about this matter. 
From the contacts I have made, it seems to me that there could be some connection between obscene publications- pornography- and drug taking and drug trafficking. I have no direct evidence of this but I am quite sure that if other honourable members were to take some interest in this matter they would get information because people talk to members of parliament whereas they will not talk to a royal commission. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  who seems to be very interested in what I have to say, knows that people will talk to a member of parliament but they will not go to an officer of the law. So I ask other honourable members, to give some consideration to ths matter. 
I do not want to take up too much of the time of the House, but I want to impress upon honourable members that although the law is controlled by the States, there is some obligation on Federal members of parliament. If anyone has any doubts about that I refer him to the United Nations Treaty Series No. 710- 'International Convention for the Suppression of the Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene Publications, Concluded at Geneva on 12 September 1923, as Amended by the Protocol signed at Lake Success, New York, on 12 November 1947'. There is a long list of signatories to this protocol and Australia's name is proudly included. Article 1 reads: 
The High Contracting Parties agree to take all measures to discover, prosecute and punish any person engaged in committing any of the following offences, and accordingly agree that- lt shall be a punishable offence: 
1 ) For the purposes of or by way of trade or for distribution or public exhibition to make or produce or have in possession obscene writings, drawings, prints, paintings, printed matter, pictures, posters, emblems, photographs, cinematograph films . . . 
Clause (3) of Article 1 reads: 
To carry on or take part in a business, whether public or private, concerned with any of the said obscene matters or things, or to deal in said matters or things in any manner whatsoever, or to distribute them, to exhibit them publicly or to make a business of lending them; 
One of the reasons I have raised this matter is that a Catholic priest contacted me and complained about what he considered to be an obscene publication which had been posted to a convent. I ask members of parliament to give some consideration to this matter because it may be only the tip of the iceberg and no one knows what may be found underneath. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, it is with great pleasure that I support the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech. I ask you to pass on to the  Speaker  my congratulations on both his elevation to the Knighthood in the New Year's Honours List and his re-election as  Speaker.  He has earned the respect and high regard of this House and I am sure he will continue to do so during the course of this Parliament. Similarly, I should be pleased if you would pass on my congratulations to the new  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy Speaker,  the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar),  on his election to those positions. 
I should also like to take this opportunity to express my sincere gratitude to the electors of Barker for their support in allowing me to represent them in this House for another term. Liberal Party members of my electorate worked untiringly during the course of the last Parliament but especially so during the general election and it was only with their assistance that the result in Barker was such an outstanding one. 
I wish to say a few words about the new electorate of Barker. As a result of the redistribution, the area of the electorate increased from roughly 42,000 square kilometres to 55,000 square kilometres. Geographically, it is the whole of the southern part of South Australia. It starts just below the intersection of the River Murray and the South Australian border and goes across to Kangaroo Island and all points south. The problems of representing a large rural electorate have been outlined in this House on many occasions. I think that in the case of Barker the situation is probably more difficult because the 'L '-shaped nature of the electorate tends to increase the amount of travelling time with which the local member has to contend. Certainly travelling is virtually a complete waste of time. It means that the local member has less time to consult with and to assist constituents. 
The electorate of Barker has an enormous variety of primary production, including dairying, wool, beef cattle, fat lamb production, timber logging and milling, fruit, vegetable and vine growing, wheat and cereal crops, a large fishing industry and a growing oilseed industry. As well, there are flour mills, pulp and paper manufacture, meat works, woollen mills, quarrying and many other industries. Clearly, there are a number of problems in trying to represent properly such a large and diverse electorate. I therefore merely make the point to the electors of Barker that it will not always be possible for me to be on their doorsteps the moment they have a problem. However, of course, I shall continue to do my utmost to assist all electors to the best of my ability. 
I turn now to the prospects for Australians in the period ahead. In the Governor-General's Speech, the Government made it clear that it considered it of paramount importance to continue the battle to reduce inflation. The Governor-General stated: 
Essential to my Government's economic program is the growth of Australian industry, the development of our resources, and a renewed emphasis on growth in exports. These hold the key to greater prosperity and the creation of more jobs. 
If we cast our minds back for a moment to the late 1960s and the early 1970s, we will remember that they were periods of increasing productivity. Productivity means that for a given increase in inputs a greater than proportional increase in outputs is achieved. In the past, when there was an increase in productivity wage earners could put their case to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for an increase in wages in line with the productivity increase. However, in 1 974 that situation changed drastically. Let us look at the productivity increases in the period 1971 to 1975. In 1971, the percentage change in productivity was an increase of 2.1 1 percent. In 1972 it was 3.74 per cent and in 1973 it was 2.82 per cent. But in 1974 there was a fall in productivity of 3.56 per cent, followed by a further fall in 1975 of 0.59 per cent. 
-Of course the Labor Party was in office then. But it is important to recall that during the period 1974-75 we had a real wage explosion so in fact people were being paid more to produce less. As a result, employers reduced their work force. They tried not to replace their less essential workers when they retired. They looked to substituting capital equipment for labour. Another result of the wage explosion was that we were less internationally competitive. It was harder for manufacturers to sell our highly priced product on the international market. Import competition was increased because of the higher prices being sought for the domestically produced products. These are just some of the reasons why it was essential for the Government to undertake a program of bringing down inflation and at the same time to argue before the wage fixation tribunals for a limitation on any further increase in wages. At the same time, it ought to be remembered that while arguing for restricted wage increases this Government has brought down personal taxation through indexation from 1 July 1977 and the new scale of taxation which operated from 1 February this year. 
The Government also has significantly improved welfare benefits. Thus we have ensured that the aggregate real household disposable income- in other words, what families have to spend- has not been substantially affected in this period. I firmly support the Government's policy that this is the way to ensure full economic recovery. It is only by controlling costs and enhancing our internationally competitive position that Australia is going to be able to get back to the long term economic growth pattern which was rudely interrupted in the early 1970s. Such economic recovery must be the basis for increased employment which, together with the higher priority the Government has placed on employment and training schemes, is the answer to the serious unemployment problems which are facing this country. The Government must continue with its program to build on the progress which has been made over the last two years to bring inflation and unemployment under control. It is only in this way that we will be able to provide effective assistance to the disadvantaged in ways that promote their independence and self-respect. 
It is well known that at this time throughout the world when countries are facing problems with their domestic economies there is pressure to increase the protection for their domestic manufacturers. This world wide increased protection provides no long term remedy for the economic ills of this country or any other country. I believe a real economic recovery is closely tied to an increase in trade between nations, not a decrease. I urge the Government to continue to press strongly for reductions in such trade barriers in all forums possible. Of course, my concern with such tariff problems is heightened by the fact that rural producers bear a large proportion of the tariff burden. 
The Government must continue its efforts to enhance and strengthen relations with our neighbours in the Asian and Pacific region including, of course, Japan. It may well be the time in fact that we started looking further ahead. It seems to me that there are great possibilities for Australia to become a leading force in the economic development of our region. I include in this development the prospect for Australia to take a great role in international banking in our area. Whilst I can see the need for stria capital regulation and currency restrictions, I believe these ought to be the subject of a thorough going review to ascertain whether we will be able to facilitate investors using Australia as their head office for investment in this region. I add that I know of large companies which would like to do just that and it seems to me that we ought to take advantage of this opportunity. 
My electorate, like every other electorate, has benefited greatly by the progress the Government has made in overcoming the economic problems with which we were faced when we came into power in 1975. The fall in the inflation rate and the resultant projected decreases in interest rates and cost inputs have been welcomed in rural areas. However, we are suffering from a severe drought. For a large part of my electorate it is the third year in a row that the rainfall has been below average. Therefore, the promise by the Government to pursue an active program of drought relief was very important. In fact, I understand that in line with that undertaking a meeting of officials took place in Adelaide last Friday to discuss the current drought relief program and recommendations are to be considered by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair). 
As well as the problems associated with this drought, we have been faced with an influx of the spotted alfalfa aphid which has devastated lucerne stands in my electorate. This is particularly serious in the deep sands area where lucerne is the main fodder crop and in some cases the only pasture which can be grown. Also, a viable lucerne seed industry in the area was just becoming a major and beneficial contributor to the national economy. The drought and the aphid have caused devastation at a time when rural producers can least afford it. I urge the Commonwealth to continue with State cooperation to examine all practical avenues to assist the hard-pressed people in this time of acute need. I am fully aware that pest control is a State responsibility. However, I consider that South Australia may have a unique case concerning aphid control. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, I understand, has been able to assist the eastern States with its aphid control programs. However, because of the placement of CSIRO breeding facilities, the same assistance has not been able to be extended to South Australia. I therefore have made detailed submissions to the Government which are currently under consideration and I hope that the Ministers will consider that if this is a unique situation appropriate Commonwealth assistance will be given to help in the aphid control program. 
Another area of concern to rural producers is the cost of fuel. Last week a Bill was introduced as the first part of the fuel freight equalisation, as promised by the Government at the last election. There is no doubt that assistance at this stage of the development of a country the size of Australia in equalising freight costs is advantageous but this still leaves a difference between city and country prices because of the so-called discounting of petrol in the cities. Such discount is almost totally non-existent in country areas in my electorate and I am sure this is the case with many other country electorates, and indeed Tasmania. 
This means that country people are paying more for their petrol over and above the freight differential than their city colleagues. The petrol companies have put up all sorts of arguments for this difference and in fact they have said they are subsidising country petrol. However, we are still left with a situation where, as in South Australia, discount fuel is available at retail outlets almost anywhere in Adelaide at about 15.7c per litre for super grade. I know the retailer is cutting his margin but still the oil companies are supplying wholesale fuel to city retailers way below the maximum price approved by the Prices Justification Tribunal. I understand the PJT maximum wholesale price is about 1 7c per litre. 
The so-called discounting is now so widespread that it is becoming the normal price except in country areas. This situation badly needs resolving and I hope that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  who had his second session with the oil industry conference last Friday, can overcome the problem. Of course, the question being asked in the country is: If discounting is so widespread, then perhaps the discounted price should be the real price throughout the country. I hope the oil companies, or the PJT, which has an application before it at the moment, will provide us with some honest answers. 
Finally, a matter for public debate at present is the Government's attitude regarding the soon to be declared 200-mile economic zone around our coast. A number of proposals have been submitted for joint venture feasibility fishing studies and longer term commercial operations. I have looked at two of these and I consider them to be most unsatisfactory and not in Australia's best interests. I was therefore heartened by the statement last Friday from the Minister for Primary Industry in which he said: 
Until management regimes for this zone and fishery resource are more accurately established, a final response to these applications is not possible. 
In the meantime, however, feasibility fishing designed to establish the extent of fishery resources in specific areas and how they can best be exploited is welcome. 
The Minister went on to mention a matter which I believe is most important for the fishermen in my area, and indeed in the rest of Australia. He said: 
Only those fisheries not currently exploited or those which are under-exploited will be considered for feasibility studies. Under no circumstances is the Federal Government prepared to consider requests for operations in areas being adequately fished by Australian fishermen, or which are likely to be so fished in the near future. The main feature of the feasibility fishing guidelines envisages a project lasting for only a short period of perhaps one or two years. 
That was a welcome and timely statement. The Government has two years of sound economic progress behind it. I am sure and confident that the years ahead will be rewarding for all Australians. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I understand that President Carter has just signed into law the United States Non-Proliferation Bill. Can the Minister give details of that Bill to this House and indicate its potential importance in relation to Australia's safeguards policy? 
-This Bill will amend the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Act 1965. That Act provided the legal basis for the petroleum products subsidy scheme. The aim of that scheme was to reduce costs of certain petroleum products in country areas by direct Commonwealth subsidy. The eligible products were motor spirit, power kerosene, automotive distillate and aviation fuels. The scheme was abolished by the Australian Labor Party Government in 1974. Honourable members will recall that about that time the then Prime Minister, the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  was telling rural producers that they had never had it so good. Following the abolition of the scheme, it will be recalled that the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  during the last election campaign promised that after the election steps would be taken to reintroduce the scheme which would subsidise freight differentials involved in transporting eligible petroleum products from refining ports and seaboard terminals to the country sales points. 
The House will be aware that freight costs are a substantial element of the relatively high prices paid by rural consumers. This is particularly the case in the more remote areas. It is clear that at this stage of Australia's development a more equitable pricing of fuel must assist in overcoming the problems caused by the enormous distances that have to be covered to reach people in outlying areas. This scheme will subsidise country freight differentials to the extent that country consumers of products covered by this scheme will pay a price which includes no more than 4c per gallon of the transport costs. In other words, this Bill will mean that in the case of a freight differential of, say, 10c per gallon the consumer will pay only 4c and the remaining 6c will be covered by the Commonwealth subsidy under the scheme. 
In the case of my electorate, in Kingscote on Kangaroo Island the subsidy will be about 0.7c per litre on motor spirit, 1.7c per litre on power kerosene, 1.1c per litre on distillate, 3.2c per litre on aviation gasoline and 3.6c per litre on aviation turbine fuel. In the case of Kingston in the south east, the subsidy will be about 0.2c per litre on motor spirit. Those figures that I have mentioned are only provisional. They have yet to be finalised. The freight differential subsidy will be based on costs submitted by individual oil companies to the Prices Justification Tribunal and accepted by that Tribunal. The scheme, because of constitutional requirements, will operate by means of grants made by the Commonwealth to the States pursuant to section 96 of the Constitution. These grants will be in amounts equal to moneys expended by the States in subsidising sales of eligible products by oil companies and other registered distributors. 
As I have already stated, the original scheme which was introduced in 1965 was terminated by ministerial action in 1974. In other words, the Labor Minister at the time terminated the scheme without reference to this House. We were concerned that such should not be the case again. Therefore I personally was pleased to see that proposed section 4 (2) of the Act provides: 
Except as authorised by a resolution of each House of Parliament, the Minister shall not revoke, or otherwise terminate the operation of, a scheme formulated under paragraphs 1 (a) or (d), whether or not the scheme has been amended. 
Clearly this scheme is of great significance to rural consumers of petroleum products and we considered that it ought not to be capable of termination merely by ministerial action without reference to the Parliament. Therefore, that section to which I have referred provides that, except as authorised by resolution of each House of the Parliament, the Minister shall not revoke or otherwise terminate the operation of the scheme. 
It is most important to make the point at this stage that, whilst this Bill will allow a scheme to subsidise the freight component of fuel delivery to country areas, it will not automatically mean that country consumers will be able to purchase fuel for the same price as city consumers. 
Honourable members will be aware that at present in city areas fuel is available at numerous discount fuel outlets at about 15.7c per litre for super grade petrol. At the same time in most country areas and, I understand, in the whole of Tasmania, such discounting does not apply. The PJT has set a maximum wholesale price of fuel of about 17c per litre and yet the retail price in Adelaide, as I have stated, is about 15.7c per litre. This is more than lc less than the maximum wholesale price. We have to ask ourselves why and how the oil companies can supply at a price so much below that which they convinced the PJT was reasonable. Mobil Oil Australia Ltd at the moment has applied for a further increase of 0.54c per litre. 
Clearly, the availability of fuel from retailers in most areas of major capitals at well below the maximum wholesale price indicates substantial cutting of margins by both retailers and oil companies, but such cutting of margins does not seem to extend to most country areas. There is a great deal of confusion as to how the oil companies can continue to discount and as to the reason for the enormous discounts available in city areas. It could well be that the price of petrol is really too high, and this enables the oil companies to give such large discounts. This is certainly supported by the evidence that discount fuel is available at so many outlets in the capital cities. If this argument is accepted, perhaps we have been paying too much for fuel in the past and the PJT has not been given all the evidence. 
Another argument is that discounting is possible because of the lower costs of distribution and handling in the city due to the larger volumes of fuel which go through city outlets. But if the oil companies adopt this latter argument that their costs of selling in the city enable them to discount, what exactly are the savings? We are still left with the question of why they did not discount before. In either case it would be greatly beneficial to the people of Australia if they would disclose the real facts as to how much more it costs to service the rural areas. Clearly, if they apply the maximum wholesale price as recommended by the PJT to country areas and at the same time are prepared to supply fuel in the city areas at retail prices well below the wholesale maximum price, there is a need for some explanation. Country people argue, with some apparent justification, that they are the only ones paying the full price for petrol. 
-And in Hobart. Therefore they wonder whether they may be paying more than just the freight differential and the increased supply costs involved in the lower volume country areas. What I am really asking for as far as country Australia is concerned is a detailed breakdown of the cost of supplying petrol in the city and the cost of supplying in the country. The Government is to be commended for subsidising the freight component of delivery of fuel to the country. I believe that it is up to the oil companies to justify the difference between the city discount retail price, or even the average city price, and the country price. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  is currently trying to resolve this problem with the oil companies. 
Well, I hope that he can get to the bottom of the problem for I assure him that country people and petrol retailers hope that he can find some answers. I support the Bill. 
I speak in support of the Softwood Forestry Agreement Bill 1978 which is of great economic and social consequence to the forestry industry in Australia generally and especially to my electorate. I look for the moment to the development of the forestry industry. In South Australia the first forestry tree nurseries were started in the south east of the State in the late 1870s. Since that time the industry has grown to a position in which the whole of the forest reserve in South Australia, for which the State Woods and Forests Department is currently responsible, I am informed, totals 129,000 hectares of which the net standing area of coniferous pine plantations to which this Bill relates is about 75,000 hectares. The net standing area of pines in the south east of South Australia alone at 30 June last year was 61,321 hectares, representing about 81 per cent of the total State plantings. Private pine plantations amount to some 17,000 hectares of which some 14,500 hectares is owned by two industrial forestry companies, Softwood Holdings Ltd and South Australian Perpetual Forest Ltd. 
Given the limited amount of natural forest, especially in South Australia, the previous Acts have been important to the development of this industry. In 1967 the first Softwood Forestry Agreement Act was passed with the intention of providing Commonwealth assistance to the States on an annual basis to allow the States to achieve a total annual plantation rate of 23,700 hectares by the end of the five year period. The second Softwood Forestry Agreement Act of 1972 reversed downward the annual planting rate from 23,700 hectares to 22,120 hectares. The rate actually achieved was nearer 25,000 hectares per annum and in addition 8,000 hectares was planted privately. In 1967 Australia had about 300,000 hectares of coniferous plantations. This increased to about 450,000 hectares in 1972 and to over 550,000 hectares in 1975. Overall, the two previous arrangements have had a significant effect in adding to the States expansion of softwood production by financing planting and maintenance of about 100,000 hectares of plantations. 
One of the main reasons for the introduction of these Acts was the general acceptance at that time that it would be in Australia's long term interests to become self-sufficient in forest products. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics report of 1977 on the Australian softwoods products industry similarly indicated that it would be in Australia's economic interest to be self-sufficient in areas such as wood pulp and newsprint. The regional economic advantages to be obtained from increases in the growing and processing of Australian forestry resources are extremely important, expecially when forestry plantations and processing industries can be established in rural and decentralised areas. These industries obviously provide jobs in areas which greatly need them and assist generally in the decentralisation effort. 
The BAE report gives estimates of softwood plantation rates to be obtained for the period 1 976- 1 980 that would allow Australia to become self-sufficient in wood supplies by the year 2002. Its conclusions state a rate which is well below the annual average rate of 33,800 hectares planted during the 1970-75 period of which 8,300 hectares were private plantings and 25,500 hectares were plantations on Crown land. It is worth mentioning that the Commonwealth funded about 50 per cent of these pine plantations on Crown land during the period of the 1972 Softwood Forestry Agreement Act. The revised BAE estimates are well below the annual average planting rate of the 1970-75 period and other information available to the Government, including of course the downward revision of population forecasts, led to the conclusions stated by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in his second reading speech on this Bill. He said that:  . . further agreements along the lines of those authorised by the 1967-1972 and 1976 Acts were not justified at this time. It - 
It' being the Government-  . . considered however that it should continue to provide finance to meet the same proportion of the States maintenance expenditure on the total area of softwood plantations established in the 1 1 year period, as the area of Commonwealth assisted plantings bears to the total area of planting in that period. 
In other words, this Bill provides an upper limit of $4.2m to cover the costs of maintenance of the plantings financed by earlier Commonwealth assistance. The amount to be received by South Australia will bc 5229,300. Further, the Government will review the situation regarding additional land purchases prior to the commencement of the second of the five years in the program. 
I make now a couple of observations about this industry which has caused and, indeed, is causing some public concern. Firstly, I refer, as did the previous speaker, to the environment. In 1974 the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation inquired into the operation of the 1967 and 1972 Acts with particular reference, which I will mention in part, to their environmental, social and economic impact. The Committee's first three findings were: 
Australia's timber resources are relatively small and should be conserved in the long term interests of the nation. 
There is a need for a softwoods planting program, possibly on a lesser scale than that planned at present. 
Timber is a versatile, renewable material which compared with other building materials can be produced at lower costs, with far less use of our dwindling energy supplies and with less damage to the environment. 
The Committee made other recommendations but I think it is important to note those that I quoted as they provide a sound rebuttal to our more radical environmentalists. 
The second point I make is that the forestry industry, like nearly every other industry in Australia, suffered and continues to suffer from the disastrous consequences of the period of Australian Labor Party government. The high inflation rate, the huge increase in labour costs and industrial lawlessness suffered by Australia during that period priced workers out of jobs. The result in the timber industry was a speeding up of the shift to mechanisation. In 1972-73 107,387 people were employed in forestry and forestry industries in Australia. In 1974-75 105,004 people were employed. In 1975-76 97,797 people were employed. That is a loss of some 10,000 jobs in this industry in three years. So it is not only this Bill but also the Government 's continuing success in restoring economic sanity which will benefit the forestry industries and assist the States in endeavouring to maintain employment in these industries at the present levels. I can assure the House that this must be one of the most important factors to be considered. It certainly is to the people in my electorate, in towns such as Meadows, Mount Burr, Millicent, Nangwarry, Tarpeena, Mount Gambier and other towns, who rely on this industry. 
Finally I want to raise the question of government intervention in this industry. Clearly the nature of the industry, the long-term investment period and other factors necessitated government assistance. However, in South Australia this has now gone much further. Recently the Government in South Australia bought a large share of a relatively small timber retailer in 
Mount Gambier. The Government said at the time that this was to provide an outlet for the State's wood and forestry operations. The State department is a very large supplier of timber. So it was quite clear that this outlet which will service only a relatively small market really was not what the State Government was looking for. If the State Government were genuine, if it wanted to get into marketing, I just cannot understand why it did not get into marketing in Adelaide where there is a much larger market. 
I believe the real reason was that the State Labor Government thought that it would just put its toe in the water to test the temperature, to see how much outcry there was in South Australia against this further socialisation of private enterprise and to see whether this State Government takeover of private enterprise in South Australia would be considered by the South Australian public to be okay. I warn the people of South Australia that if there is not much of an outcry and if there is not a continuing outcry I believe the Dunstan Government will press on with its takeovers of South Australian industries. Clearly such a philosophy is quite contrary to my own, but I suppose it would not be so bad if the State Government were efficient. At the moment it is having difficulties in running the Government, let alone private enterprise as well. The State Government's Budget has blown out to a deficit of about $26m this year and its efforts in the field of private enterprise are no better than its efforts elsewhere. I refer to one instance. The South Australian Meat Corporation is run by the South Australian Government. Its costs are among the highest costs of abattoirs in Australia. It is pricing itself out of the market and its workers are losing their jobs. As a result of a misconceived belief by the workers in that industry, they are now picketing the export of live sheep. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I can understand the Opposition's concern about this matter because many primary producers are gravely affected by the union action in South Australia. I think it is very important as far as the forestry industries in South 
Australia and the jobs of the people in my electorate are concerned that the same thing does not happen to them as has happened to the people who work for the South Australian Meat Corporation. Those people are losing their jobs. I do not want the same thing to happen to the people in my electorate who are in the forestry industry. The South Australian Government has not shown that it is able to run the corporation. I do not believe it will be able to run the private enterprise that it is trying to get into in forestry. I make this warning to the people of South Australia and ask them for their support: Stop this Government before things get worse. We have already paid a high price for the Labor Government in South Australia. We have even gone as far as paying for Don Dunstan 's legal action for damages in the Supreme Court. We are paying the costs of the Crown Solicitor. I warn the people of South Australia that it is very important that this takeover of private enterprise, especially in the forestry industry, should not be allowed to continue. I support this Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Jenkins)  adjourned. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I understand that an Iranian delegation is at present in Canberra seeking to purchase Australian uranium. Can the Prime Minister inform the House whether Australia intends to sell uranium to Iran? 
-In speaking in the debate on the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill, I wish to make specific reference to the Curran scheme. There has been some debate in this House about both the principle involved in the Government's decision to legislate and to make the legislation effective from 16 August and, more from speakers from the Opposition side, about the effect of the Bill in wiping out these tax evasion schemes. 
I want briefly to detail the Curran scheme so that we know exactly what we are talking about. The essential elements of the scheme are that taxpayers who seek to be treated as share traders can artificially create a tax deductible loss which can then be offset against their normal taxable income. I give a short example. A person pays $ 1 90,000 for shares with a face value of $ 10,000. After accumulated profits attaching to those shares have been capitalised by the issue of bonus shares to a face value of $190,000, the total parcel of shares is sold for $ 195,000. Under a Curran scheme the person claims to have incurred a loss of $185,000 whilst, in commercial terms, a profit of $5,000 has in fact been made. Such a scheme can be used to create almost whatever loss is required by the taxpayer to eliminate his tax liability completely. Quite clearly, the scheme is totally without commercial merit. It creates an artificial loss, which is not an economic or commercial loss. I believe that this procedure is outside the bounds of commercial reality. 
What of the arguments concerning the effect of the Government's decision to backdate to the August Budget the legislation in regard to the Curran scheme? I do not want to talk about the warnings which have been given to practitioners and individuals about the scheme or about the amount of money involved. Rather, I want to look at the reasoning behind the so-called principle of retrospectivity. Surely the basis of that principle is that those people who are undertaking normal commercial decisions should not have those decisions interfered with by Government legislation which is backdated. I make a distinction here between what we have done and the basis of the retrospective principle. 
Let us take the example of the investment allowance. If we gave an investment allowance in the form of, say, a 40 per cent depreciation allowance in August last year and a taxpayer went out and bought, say, a tractor in October last year, then in February this year we realise that the scheme is costing us too much and we decide to scrap it retrospectively. That is what the Opposition is arguing for in its proposed amendment. That would mean that those people who have bought their tractor have lost the tax allowance which was given to them and have been put into a worse position than they ever contemplated. There is no way that the Government could put those people back into the position they were in before they undertook the contract. 
I believe that the will now be under our legislation is quite different. Our legislation will affect only people who have entered the Curran scheme this financial year. It will affect only people who have not yet paid tax. In fact, in most cases it will relate to tax which is payable next March. Most of them would be taxpayers who pay provisional tax so they will not have paid the tax. If the Commissioner of Taxation is thinking about exercising his discretion to penalise people who have varied their provisional tax on the basis of entering a Curran scheme this yearthose people whose provisional tax will now be much too low, that is, more than 20 per cent less than it should have been- and who could be said to be affected by the retrospectivity of this legislation, I suggest to the Government and to the Commissioner of Taxation that the Commissioner's discretion ought to be exercised and that in those cases no penalty ought to be applied. If that were done I would suggest that this legislation would not adversely affect the people who have entered into the Curran scheme but would merely put them back into the position they were in before they entered the scheme. I refer for a moment to the argument advanced by the honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon).  The honourable member quoted Lord Hailsham, who said: 
A man cannot be punished or penalised for doing something which is lawful at the time it is done. 
That was the basis of the argument put forward by the honourable member for Lowe. The argument is that a man cannot be punished or penalised for something he has done legally in the past. Have we in fact done that? I have said previously that the effect of this legislation will be to put him back into the position he was in before he entered the scheme. Obviously we have not punished him, but have we penalised him? I refer to the  Concise Oxford Dictionary  which defines 'penalise' as: 'To subject to penalty or comparative disadvantage'. Have we put these people in a position where they are at a comparative disadvantage? I would say that we have put them in the same position as the rest of the taxpayers in Australia. They have not been disadvantaged, they have been brought back into line. Have these people been given any warning? Of course they were given plenty of warning, but I do not think that is the basis of the difference between the retrospectivity which applies here and the principle that we on this side of the House consider should not be breached in normal circumstances. I refer to some of the advertisements and documents which have been handed round by those who have been promoting the scheme. I have said that I do not believe that those who have entered into the scheme will be any worse off after this legislation is passed than they were before. They have lost a tax deduction which they thought they might get but which they have not received in this financial year. They have had no chance to invest the money because they have never had to pay it. I shall quote from one of the documents which was promoting the scheme. I am trying to show that perhaps they have not even lost what they paid to the promoters of the scheme to get the scheme going. One of the documents I have states: 
The fee payable for membership of a 'Curran' Partnership is 1 S per cent of the loss which you require to achieve: 

 TA per cent on commencement of the partnership 

 TA per cent on the issue of your assessment in which the Curran Loss is allowed as a deduction. 
If amending legislation is passed so that you cannot benefit from the Curran Loss, any fee already paid will be refunded. 
They will not have even lost the money that they paid to the promoters of the scheme. These people have been put back into exactly the same position they were in before they entered the scheme. I think that is a very basic distinction between this retrospectivity and the sort of retrospectivity about which the Opposition and the honourable member for Lowe have argued in this House. I believe they are clearly distinguishable. I asked lawyers in Adelaide about the scheme and I could find none who suggested to their clients that it was a scheme that ought to be entered into. A small group came to me last week and stated that they had suggested the scheme to their clients. I would say that nearly all legal practitioners- I have not asked accountantscertainly in South Australia strongly advised their clients against undertaking the scheme. The warnings were clear. The principle has not been breached, and I strongly support the Government's legislation. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware that during wet weather the Kangaroo Island airport is liable to be closed, prohibiting the use of the air ambulance and thereby causing serious problems for the sick or injured on that Island? Has the Minister recently stated that the sealing of that government owned airstrip has not a high priority in competition with other government owned airports? Can he tell the House which national airport works currently approved for funding are required to avoid such a serious risk to people 's lives as exists on Kangaroo Island? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Can the Minister tell the House why South Australia will be the last State to make available to country fuel consumers the petrol freight subsidy funded by the Commonwealth? Has South Australia had the same notice as other States to introduce this scheme? Are there any steps which the Minister can take to overcome the State Government 's incompetence whereby it is again showing its contempt of the South Australian rural community? 
-I refer the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations to the live sheep dispute and the findings of the Miller report. Did the Miller report find that substantially more jobs are created by the live sheep trade than are lost? Is the Minister aware of Australia's likely loss of trade if these and associated exports are interrupted? I ask the Minister whether he has read in the Press the following statement by  Mr A.  Tonkin, the South Australian State Secretary of the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union: 
The main thrust at this stage is national stoppages at all abattoirs which may be in conjunction with picketing and other forms of action which someone may suggest. 
Will the Government take all steps possible to ensure that this valuable trade continues uninterrupted? 
I want to raise a matter in relation to South Australia which is of some concern to me. Quite frankly, I am sick to death of the whingeing complaints from the South Australian Labor Government. The Premier of South Australia recently brought down the State Budget and, as usual, blamed the Federal Government for the inadequacies of his own Administration. I wonder how long Premier Dunstan thinks that this boring repetitiveness will cover up the scandalous waste and maladministration which are occurring in South Australia. Honourable members might think that this is a case of a Liberal politician speaking against his Labor State Premier, but I want to record what the  Advertiser  said after the State Budget was brought down. It refers to the Dunstan Budget and the excuses Dunstan mentioned, and then states: 
There is, however, scope for differences of opinion as to the causes of the hard times on which he says we have fallen. For the Premier, the answer is clear. Predictably, he has once again attributed all our difficulties to the Federal Government's policy of economic restraint. 
This is not me talking, it is the Adelaide  Advertiser.  It goes on: 
There is, naturally, nowhere in his statement an acknowledgment that there may have been any shortcomings in his own Government's financial management. Yet the need for restrictions on the State's own spending once the comforting reserve of funds from the country railways transfer deal was exhausted has been apparent for sometime. 
The final paragraph in the editorial states: 
Perhaps the most welcome thing to emerge from this State Budget is the Goverment 's specific undertaking to review its present range of activities and to move towards an improved accounting system to ensure the most efficient possible use of the State's limited financial resources. 
And not before time, I might add. It would not be so bad if the State Labor Ministers were honest in their criticism. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The South Australian Minister of Local Government in announcing the federal grants to local councils in South Australia- in announcing the distribution of Commonwealth money- not only announced the distribution but announced it dishonestly and untruthfully. Really, one just cannot understand how he continues to retain his portfolio. 
It is impossible.The federal grant for South Australian local councils this year is $ 15.4m which is an 8.5 per cent increase on last year's grant of $ 14.2m. Yet in announcing the grant the South Australian Minister of Local Government,  Mr Virgo,  said: 
In real money terms, this is no increase at all. 
What does that mean? Does that mean that last year inflation was running at 8.5 per cent? Any fool in Australia knows that inflation was running at 7.9 per cent. I ask  Mr Virgo  how he can claim that there was no real increase. Clearly the rate of inflation was lower than the increase to local government. I believe that in these times of restraint the Federal Government has shown a good deal of thought and compassion for local government. The Federal Government has looked after local government even though it has had to restrain expenditure in many areas. What do we hear? We hear whingeing complaints from the South Australian Minister of Local Government. Unless he can explain this basic falsity- it is nothing more; it is a lie,  Mr Deputy Speaker  - 
Of course it is happy; it has got an increase. Yet for political gain this State Minister says these things which are totally untrue. I believe that he should not be a Minister. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware of claims made in South Australia yesterday that there is a risk of no work being done on the Stuart Highway this year unless the Commonwealth Minister for Transport changes his attitude and gives approval for the work to proceed? Is this claim correct, or is State Minister Virgo once again intentionally misleading the State Parliament and the people of South Australia? 
-I ask the Minister for Transport whether he is aware of the concern being expressed in South Australia about statements by  Mr Virgo  that many of that State's country railway lines are to be closed by the Federal Government? Can the Minister give this House an undertaking that these services, especially those which will be required to carry grain during the forthcoming harvest, will not be closed? 
-In discussing these estimates I want to look at the current economic position and refer in detail to the great possibilities for change and advancement which lie before us. I believe that the Budget strategy is correct. It is based on the fact that the basic economic fundamentals have to be put right before we can expect a true long term recovery. We must continue to eradicate inflation. It is encouraging to note that the Budget strategy has been widely accepted.  Mr Burrell,  the  President  of the Australian Chamber of Commerce, after the Budget said: 
Business fully supports the Government in its determination to maintain this approach. 
The annual report of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade stated: 
The inescapable conclusion is that the industrial countries can only move towards increased growth and employment . . . by reducing their inflation rate to the levels experienced in the mid 1 960s. 
Some have argued that the Budget does not properly take account of the serious problem of unemployment, but what are the real alternatives to those undertaken in the Budget? The Government could increase the deficit and throw money at the unemployment problem in the form of public works programs. The problem with this approach is that it would be contrary to the Budget strategy and would lead us back to the sorts of problems we faced in 1974-75. It has taken us three yers to overcome those problems. I do not believe that the Australian public considers that that is a course which can be adopted. There are no easy answers to unemployment. 
I believe that this Government has had greater foresight in moving to overcome the problems than has been recognised or for which it has been given credit. Given that the Budget is soundly based for long term economic recovery, what are the problems facing Australian industry and the employment prospects therein? What is the Government doing about them? Nearly two years ago, this Government set up the Department of Productivity in order to overcome the problems it foresaw could arise. I believe that the foresight shown in setting up this Department and the work that it has done together with the Department of Industry and Commerce and the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations could well herald a brave new era for Australia. Clearly, the effects of rapid inflation, rapid increases in wages, decreases in profit margins and the oil crisis have meant that industry has had to become more efficient. Faced with the problems of rising costs, Australian industry has had to endeavour to reduce unit costs; that is, to increase productivity. 
Alternatively, industry could seek greater protection from overseas competition but the problem with protection in general is that it is geared to the lowest common denominator. In other words, often it is geared to keep the most inefficient company in the industry going, causing a misallocation of resources. Therefore, the Government has been concentrating on forward planning to find ways to assist industry to improve productivity, both through cost saving measures as well as by endeavouring to obtain greater co-operation between employer and employee to the advantage of both. It is this cooperation which was the subject of the statement by the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  on 12 July. It outlined the Government's view on employee participation. The main points in that policy are that employee participation should ensure that in the management of any enterprise, both employee goals and organisation goals are seen as important and mutually interdependent. 
This interdependence, together with the introduction of appropriate measures, can lead to labour management co-operation. It must be encouraged. The policy should encourage greater effectiveness and an improved quality of work life for the employee. 
The employee participation policy should also lead to a workable program in the interests not only of individual employees but also of management, shareholders and consumers. Clearly, it will enhance productivity but there are other factors to consider such as the effects of improvements in technology. Following the recent Australian Telecommunications Commission dispute, Opposition members started jumping up and down as though they had just discovered that technological change could affect future employment prospects, but this Government, in setting up the Department of Productivity, had this in mind two years ago. Our ability to compete, both here and overseas, will depend on the implementation of new technology. This is why the Government has increased by 75 per cent to $24m the allocation to industrial research and development. 
Unfortunately, instead of looking to the future with ideas for a great new Australia, many people seem to be terrified of technology. They show a pre-industrial revolution mentality that these new-fangled machines must mean that people will be put out of work permanently. Technology has important economic and development ramifications. The retraining programs run by the Government aim to minimise any dislocation which may be caused in the work force. There is little doubt that technological improvement is essential and is an employment creator. The organisation of tripartite discussions between unions, management and government in the footwear, clothing, textile, forging, tyre, tanning and white goods industries is proof of the Government's application in practical terms to the solving of the structural, technological and other problems facing these industries. 
The Australian economy has been through an extremely difficult period. It has now been set on a steady course. The next five or ten years will see some of the most rapid changes to the structure of our industries, working conditions and hours of work such as has not been seen in this country since Federation. For example, perhaps we will not have weekends as we have them now. The Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  recently said: 
A system of staggered holidays throughout the Commonwealth would  seem  to offer considerable economic benefit. I am aware that this problem has been under consideration by governments for some time and that little progress has been made to date. There may not be a quick and easy solution. However, I consider this matter should be accorded a much higher priority by governments and industry. 
There are enormous benefits to industry and tourism by such a change in our working conditions. More recently, the Minister for Productivity floated the concept of a 14-day fortnight in which we might all work a total of, say, 10 days. We would not all work the same 10 days, nor would they be consecutive, nor need they be days of the same duration. It is these ideas which are thrown up for the consideration of the Parliament and the people of Australia that I believe will lead to a better Australia for all Australians. 
We are a relatively highly educated, resourcerich and competent country. If we can shake off this dreadful confrontation mentality- that is. employee versus employer; unions against the rest of Australia- I believe that this Budget will set the basis for the greatest advance ever in our life style and our standard of living. These new ideas must be debated in this Parliament and outside it. It would certainly lift the tenor of the Parliament if the Opposition were to come forward with some positive suggestions. 
The work being done in the departments which are the recipients of these appropriations must be added to by serious consideration being given to how the tax system ought to be futher restructured. Should a further investment allowance be implemented and, if so, where and in what form? Should there be futher export incentives and, if so, how should they be provided? Should there be increased research and development grants and where should they be channelled? These are the sorts of problems which need to be confronted by this Parliament and answers to them need to be found. I am now more confident than ever that on the foundation of this Budget, together with deep consideration of these brave new ideas and, at long last, a general recovery in the rural sector, this country is poised to stride forward into the 1980s. However, there is an overwhelming need to work together in the best interest of all Australians. 
-The Government's rural policies have recognised the important part that our rural industries play in the Australian economy, and I believe have shown a commitment to ensuring that we will continue to have a strong and healthy primary sector. Part of the funds allocated in this appropriation go to the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. Some of the BAE's work is to look at the economic significance of events in rural industries. It has been responsible for documenting many of the adjustments which have occurred in the relative mix of inputs in the farm sector. In so doing the BAE has helped to identify and quantify the rising costs which the farmer in recent years has been forced to suffer. We should remember that farmers do not have assured wages, that they have no guarantee of prices for their produce on world markets, and that by and large they have no way in which cost increases can be passed on to the consumer. 
Of concern to farmers has been the recent increases in fuel costs arising from the world parity pricing of Australian oil, which is part of the Government's energy policy. The increases in the cost of domestic crude oil, and therefore fuel, are intended to establish realistic attitudes in the community regarding fuel usage. 
The policy aims to encourage energy conservation, to enable alternatives or substitutes such as natural gas to compete with fuel derived from our valuable crude oil; to remove the distortions in the domestic marketing of some petroleum products- namely, imported furnace and diesel oil- and to increase the prospects for discovery and development of new oilfields. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)- 
That is not a point of order. 
It is unfortunate that the Opposition has not read the statements made by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  in this House. The policy also aims to provide funds for research into other energy matters. We should remember that the potential energy problem facing Australia is mainly in liquid fuels for transport, not in electricity or heat generation. Australia is rich in black and brown coal reserves as well as uranium, but none of these will fuel our cars, planes and tractors unless expensive conversion technology is applied. The importance of petroleum products as a cost to the rural community has been examined by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. In the  Quarterly Review of Agricultural Economics,  a BAE publication, the point is made that there were increases of about 47 per cent in fuel costs on wheat industry products between 1973-74 and 1975-76. That fuel represents about 10 per cent of total cash costs on cropping properties. By 1975, when economic conditions had deteriorated significantly, with declining prices received and rapidly rising input costs, producers tried to reduce their inputs to keep costs down and at least maintain a minimal income. Because modern farming systems are dependent on petroleum products, these input costs could not be avoided. 
The Bureau survey suggests that petrol, distillate, oil and grease account for over 90 per cent of fuel expenditure in the pastoral, wheat-sheep and high rainfall zones. Petrol assumes the greatest importance in each of the zones, accounting for something like 6 1 per cent of total fuel expenditure in pastoral zones, 52 per cent in wheatsheep areas, and 63 per cent in high rainfall zones. This is very important information because it shows the inflexibility of fuel use in the rural community. Additionally, there is a real problem in South Australia, and doubtless in other States, because there is not the widespread discounting in the country that exists in the city. So it appears that country users are almost the only people in Australia paying the full price for petrol. Honourable members will be aware that in most cities discount fuel is now available at a large number of outlets. Currently in Adelaide fuel is selling for about 19.9c per litre for super grade whilst the Prices Justification Tribunal's recommended wholesale price in most capital cities. is about 20.3c per litre. In other words, petrol is selling at service stations for less than the PJT has recommended as the maximum price at which it should be supplied by the oil companies to the service stations. So in fact the oil companies' real wholesale price for super grade fuel in the city is about 1 7c per litre. Further, it is fast becoming clear that because the discount price is so widely available it is in fact the real price and does not really constitute a discount at all. 
However, the real problem for country consumers and travellers in the countryside is that this real price, or so-called discount price, is not available outside city areas. Clearly there is a need for country prices to reflect properly the additional costs of marketing fuel in the country. The sorts of costs which are relevant are the costs of transport, distribution and maintaining fuel outlets with lower gallonage throughput than in city service stations. In other words, account has to be taken of the dis-economies of scale. So we have fuel being supplied to service stations in the city for about 1 7c per litre for super. The Federal Government, under the freight subsidy scheme, pays freight costs which are in excess of 0.88c per litre. Therefore 0.88c per litre is the maximum freight cost the oil company has to pay. We then have to allow for distribution costs and the relatively higher per litre costs involved in maintaining the facilities in country areas where the throughput is less. I hope that the oil companies can explain that I am wrong, but it is my contention that they are ripping off the country consumer. 
I refer now to some examples. Victor Harbour and Murray Bridge are towns within 40 miles of suburban fuel outlets selling super at 19.9c per litre. But the price for super in Victor Harbour and Murray Bridge is between 24c and 25c per litre. This is in effect a mark-up of about 5c per litre above the city price. The retailer is buying at about 2 1 c per litre, again about 5c per litre above the cost to the city retailer 40 miles away. I just cannot see how the oil companies can justify this mark-up of about 20c per gallon. I cannot see that the costs of servicing the country areas are that much. Certainly many farmers obtain bulk fuel at somewhere around the wholesale price, but my statement stands that I cannot see how the mark-up between city wholesale and country wholesale or city retail and country retail can be justified. 
In case I am accused of picking bad examples, the prices in other towns in my electorate are about the same. Super petrol in Mount Gambier costs between 24.9c and 25.4c per litre. In Naracoorte for the same quantity of the same grade the price is 25.6c; in Kingston it is 25.5c and is Meningie it is 25.7c. Here is an interesting example- in Pinnaroo it is 25c and in Lameroo, where the oil companies say the freight cost is higher, the price is lower at about 24.4c per litre. The retailers have tried to get a more equitable deal but the oil companies will not be in it. The BAE has shown that farmers, because of their reliance on fuel as such an important input cost, are bearing the brunt of this apparently discriminatory pricing policy. I believe that the farmers deserve an answer. 
I accept the Government's energy policy and the need for parity pricing. Further, the Government has introduced the first stage of freight equalisation. I now believe that it is high time for the oil companies to explain why country people have to pay so much for fuel. I am pleased that, according to Press reports,  Mr Frank  Pryor, the Acting  Chairman  of the Prices Justification Tribunal, announced yesterday that a public inquiry would be held dealing not only with oil company applications for price increases but with the whole basis of petroleum product pricing. I strongly suggest that interested groups, including rural organisations, make their views known to the Prices Justification Tribunal in order that this discriminatory situation may be overcome. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Transport 
Proposed expenditure, $31 1,581,000. 
-This matter of public importance about unemployment that the Opposition has proposed is clearly in the Government's opinion and, I believe, in the opinion of the Australian public just not sustainable. This Government is genuinely concerned about the unemployment problem in Australia. It is determined to maintain the economic policy to overcome the mess that was left to us by the Labor Government. The Government is actively pursuing a manpower program to assist in getting the unemployed back to work. One cannot separate the unemployment problem and the state of the economy. We must put the economy right before we will be able to return to a situation as it was in the 1960s when we had relatively full employment. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  in his statement to this House on 14 September 1978 showed the genuine and real concern that this Government has for the problems of the unemployed. 
Before I detail the Government's manpower policies and show how effective they have been, I want to look at what the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has said. He said that the Labor Party would introduce job creation programs and unemployment relief schemes in co-operation with State and local governments. He gave no specific details of what the programs would involve. It sounded very much to me like a re-run of the 1974 record. He said that the Labor Party would not tolerate unemployment. But it created unemployment. It set up the Regional Employment Development scheme and it sounds very much as though it would do it all over again. Let us look at that RED scheme. Under the Labor Government it cost about $430m and affected about 36,000 people. The jobs that were created did not last much longer than eight weeks. The honourable member for Port Adelaide was one of the members of the Labor Party who saw that the scheme was ineffective and decided to scrap it. Now the Labor Party wants to start it again. When we came to office the scheme had been 80 per cent abolished and at the end of the scheme I could not find one person who was left in a permanent job having been employed under the scheme. What does the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations say? One would have thought that Opposition members would have read the speech that he made on 14 September. They might have learned from it. He said: 
Unfortunately, this is far from a costless solution, as our predecessors' experience with their Regional Employment Development scheme demonstrated. Employing the unemployed at the minimum wage, which presumably is what the community would expect, with all the overheads associated with employment- workers' compensation, accommodation, tools, materials, supervision, administration of such matters as wages, record-keeping et cetera- would far exceed the savings which might be made in unemployment benefit payments and increases in taxation. And, of course, not all the unemployed are unemployment benefit recipients. The overall cost per person would very likely be of the order of $200 to $250 per week. That would necessitate very considerable additional public expenditure that would have to be provided by reduced expenditure elsewhere, increased taxation or an increased deficit. 
Of course the honourable member for Port Adelaide just does not tell us where the funds will come from. The Minister continued: 
Obviously such action at this time would worsen the prospects for economic recovery and increased job opportunities. It might well increase, rather than decrease, unemployment. 
If the scheme proposed by the honourable member for Port Adelaide is so good, why can he not persuade his own State Labor Party Premier to adopt it? South Australia would be a great place to test his proposals because, under Dunstan, it is the State with the highest unemployment. In August 7.07 per cent of its work force were unemployed; last month about 7.8 per cent were unemployed. While in the rest of Australia unemployment fell in September compared with August, it rose in South Australia. Why does the honourable member not take his ideas to  Mr Dunstan?  Under the Budget allocations South Australia has over $749m to spend as it likes. That is an increase of about 7.9 per cent over last year and about 40 per cent over the last Labor Budget in 1975. That is untied money.  Mr Dunstan  can spend it as he likes. But he is not spending any of it on the sorts of suggestions that have been put up by the honourable member for Port Adelaide. 
It seems quite clear to me that the pie in the sky ideas of the honourable member are just not acceptable to that Premier. I do not believe the proposals are acceptable to or that they will be taken seriously by the Australian public. We have been through it all before. I am very suspicious about the motives of the honourable member for Port Adelaide. If he really is concerned about unemployment, one would think that, he would be using his best efforts to ensure that projects which would create jobs would get off the ground. Instead he and his party do exactly the opposite. The Dunstan Labor Government will not let the Western Mining Corporation's Roxby Downs project proceed. It is deliberately refusing to allow people the right to work. 
It would create a lot of jobs but the Dunstan Government will not create the jobs. It will not allow Western Mining Corporation to go ahead. The Federal Labor Party does the same. It is clear that the mining of uranium in the Northern Territory is being held up deliberately by the influence of the Labor Party. It is denigrating the Aboriginal people and refusing to allow the people of Australia to take up productive jobs offered by these projects. How false can the honourable member for Port Adelaide be? He talks about the problems of unemployment, yet he is keeping people out of jobs. How else does the Labor Party explain the presence of  Mr Waters,  an executive member of the Northern Territory Labor Party, and  Mr James,  a member of the Labor Party, who are both solicitors, at Oenpelli a day before they were due to act as legal advisers to the meeting at which the Aborigines were to decide their views on mining uranium. I suppose those two members of the Labor Party were not trying to influence the Aborigines; they were just down there to look at the scenery. 
It is this sort of action which is undertaken by the Labor Party that is stalling national projects which will create jobs. The honourable member for Port Adelaide keeps looking at band-aid proposals for unemployment when he should be looking at the root causes. While the Labor Party continues to refuse to allow people to work, of course there will be unemployment. What is the Government doing in its manpower policies to assist the unemployed? Firstly, it is necessary to ensure that those people who are seeking employment and those employers who are seeking employees are matched. Clearly, we also want job vacancies to be filled as fast as possible. Therefore, we have increased expenditure on the 
Commonwealth Employment Service to ensure that it provides an efficient and modern manpower service. The Government is also providing $125,000 for pilot projects being conducted by new or relocated CES offices, which are designed to help in achieving these aims. The CES is also involved in the administration of government manpower programs. This year there has been an increase of 44 per cent over last year's expenditure on these programs; an amount of $ 179m has been allocated. 
I want to discuss a few of the programs which show the baseless nature of the Opposition's matter of public importance today. I refer first to the National Employment and Training program, the Budget allocation for which has been increased by 44 per cent to $122m. This program, which emphasises practical on-the-job training assistance, is an extremely cost-effective way of providing people with the skills that they need to obtain secure employment. More than 13,000 people are now undertaking NEAT programs. 
Secondly, the Special Youth Employment Training Program provides subsidies, to a maximum of $45 a week per employee, for employers, who take on young unemployed people who are registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service. This reduces the cost to the employer of taking on people who have had difficulty in finding work. The honourable member for Port Adelaide seemed to suggest that the scheme was not worth while. I wonder, then, if he could explain to the House why the number of people benefiting under the scheme has increased from 7,546 in June 1977 to 33,790 in June 1978. Perhaps he ought to get out of his ivory castle and talk to the employers and employees who are using the scheme. Certainly from my own experience it is an extremely worthwhile program. In September 38,814 people were benefiting from the program and being taught job skills so that they can obtain permanent employment. That is different from what happened under the Labor Government's Regional Employment Development scheme, where people did not stay in their job and did not gain skills that would enable them to obtain long-term employment. 
I refer also to the Apprenticeship Support Program for which this year $46m, has been appropriated. This is an increase of 4 1 per cent over the figure of $32. 5m that was provided last year. The Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training program, which is operated under this scheme, aims, through tax-exempt assistance to employers, to encourage the employment and effective training of apprentices. Employers of approximately 63,000 apprentices are expected to be assisted this year. 
Another program is that of the national and state training committees, which are assisted by the Government in helping industry develop its training capabilities. This is of great importance to the future development of a skilled work force. In fact last week some of the people who are involved in these committees had discussions with the Government members committee. As a result of that discussion it became clear that this is an extremely valuable program. Another program is the Community Youth Support scheme, the appropriation for which has been increased, from $5.7m last year by more than 50 per cent, to $9m. 
I have nothing but praise for the people who are working in these projects in my area. These programs show clearly the fallacy of the argument of the Opposition. It really would have been pleasing if the honourable member for Port Adelaide had made some positive suggestions which could be considered by the House. The Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  and the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  have made suggestions concerning structural problems in the work force and, the length of time that people work, such as the 14-day fortnight proposal of the Minister for Productivity, but we have heard not one word on these proposals from the Opposition. It does not wish to discuss these ideas which will help the unemployed of Australia. Why cannot the Australian people have the benefit of the ideas of the Opposition, or does it have none? All we get is criticism, the playing of politics. We get no positive suggestion. It is time that the Opposition provided some suggestions instead of playing politics with the unemployed. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The discussion is concluded. 
-Before answering the comments made by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  I want to refer precisely to the contents of this Bill. The purposes of the Bill is to enable the Commonwealth to give undertakings to foreign lenders that in the case of borrowings which do not involve the issue of stock or securities within the meaning of the Loans Securities Act 1919, the documents will be exempt from all Australian taxes and duties and all payments to be made by the Commonwealth will be free from all Australian taxes except in the case of payments to Australian residents. The old Act of 1919 will be supplemented by the provisions of this Bill. The old Act gave effect to similar undertakings where stocks and securities were issued. In modern loan programs the necessity for stocks and securities has not been so evident; but instead there have been loan agreements. The necessity for this Bill is, as the honourable member for Fremantle pointed out, a technical one to which the Opposition does not disagree. However, they have proposed an amendment concerning the foreign debt burden. 
I want to refer to the Budget, which clearly sets out the Government's intention in relation to this matter, before dealing with some of the points the honourable member raised. I think it is important that we get an overall perception of what the Government is doing. I then intend to deal in detail with some of the points which I think are quite invalid in the current economic situation. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  in introducing the Budget, said: 
Externally, our export growth will be constrained by the continuing moderate growth of the world economy in 1978-79. 
However, from the point of view of the current account balance and domestic incomes, the sluggishness in export volumes is likely to be offset by a significant improvement in our terms of trade. 
The expected build up in stocks domestically will no doubt be mirrored in stronger growth in imports. 
On balance, therefore, the external deficit on current account seems likely to continue running at about the rate recorded in the second half of 1977-78, producing some increase for the year as a whole. 
Offsetting that, the improvement in the investment climate generally in this country seems likely to lead to a gradual strengthening of the private capital account. 
Meanwhile, the Government remains committed to a program of official borrowing overseas to supplement the temporarily depleted levels of private capital inflow and, in the process, to maintain reserves. 
The Treasurer made quite clear the Government's intention. I refer now to page 46 of Budget Paper No. 1 for this financial year. It gives more details. If the honourable member for Fremantle read it he might understand the situation. The Budget Paper states: 
The present financial year is unlikely to see major changes in Australia's balance of payments position. The conjunction of a number of factors is likely to maintain a deficit in private sector external transactions and there will thus be a need for a continuation of the Government's overseas borrowing program, which has indeed already got under way in 1978-79. As the year proceeds, however, further improvement in Australia's relative inflation performance, and continued moderate recovery in overseas economic activity, should bring about an improved balance in private sector external transactions. 
I shall deal with that in a moment. The Budget Paper continues: 
At current prices, exports of goods and services may rise more rapidly in 1978-79 than in 1977-78, although overall volumes seem likely to remain subdued. Assuming continued moderate recovery in Australia's main export markets, nonrural  export  prices and volumes are expected to show modest growth in 1978-79. Rural export receipts should increase rather more strongly, but wholly on account of substantial rises in average export prices (particularly for meat and wheat); present constraints on the supply of several important commodities are likely to produce a decline in rural export volumes in 1978-79. 
I pause to comment that it would seem that those predictions are starting to be fulfilled. It is clear that following the visit to the United States by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  our position in relation to meat exports has been saved and our exports to the United States will continue. There are distinct prospects for increases in meat exports to Japan. Similarly, the predictions in relation to wheat have so far proved to be correct. The season appears to be a relatively good one. Certainly the wheat growers in my electorate are looking forward to much better returns this year than they have had for quite a number of years. The Budget Paper continues: 
Import values are forecast to rise more strongly than exports for 1978-79 as a whole. 
If the honourable member for Fremantle had read that statement he might understand the situation. The Budget Paper continues: 
This outcome partly reflects the fact that imports at the beginning of the year were well above their average quarterly 1977-78 level. In addition, import volumes are expected to rise during 1978-79 in line with the continued growth in final spending and a turnaround in the stock cycle from decumulation to accumulation. 
I suggest that that is exactly what is happening. The Budget Paper continues: 
The current account deficit in 1978-79 is expected to continue running at about the rate recorded in the second half of 1977-78. This would result in a higher deficit for 1978-79 than in 1977-78. 
On capital account, it is expected that net apparent private capital inflow will strengthen gradually over the course of the year. This assessment is based on the expected growth in investment activity during the year, and the favourable effects of appropriately firm domestic economic policies, including the perceived anti-inflation benefits of those policies, in rekindling overseas interest in Australia as a country with favourable prospects for investment in the years ahead. 
I want to look at what has happened in the first quarter of 1978-79. There was an overall balance of payments deficit of $307m for the July to October period of 1978-79 compared with an overall deficit of $663m for the corresponding period last year. This improvement also has been reflected in a much lower outflow in respect of private sector foreign exchange transactions entirely because of a turnaround in net apparent private capital movements- from outflows of $346m in the July to October period of 1977-78 to inflows of $437m in the same period of this year. Inflows in respect of government capital transactions were the same in both periods, that is, an amount of $607m. The current account deficit in the July to October period of 1 978-79 of $1,35 lm was larger than the deficit of $926m for the corresponding period last year. This was attributable largely to a weaker trade balance due in turn to a slow growth in exports reflecting relatively sluggish world trade conditions and a recovery in imports in 1978 following the decline during the latter part of 1977 associated with the November 1976 devaluation and a decline in stocks. Industrial disputes, including waterfront stoppages, also probably adversely affected Australia's trade position in the recent July to October period. 
Official reserve assets at the end of October stood at about $3,328m, which is over $100m higher than at the beginning of 1978-79 and about $330m higher than at the end of October last year. Overall external account developments in 1978-79 are proceeding broadly as expected at  the beginning of the financial year. The Government has made it clear that, against the background of declining domestic inflation and an anticipation of a gradual restoration of a sound private sector external account position, it will not hesitate to make overseas borrowings on its own account, as necessary, to maintain official reserves. 
I believe that that answers the thrust of the suggestions made by the honourable member for Fremantle. The honourable member went on to talk about the debt per capita. I suggest to the House that the debt per capita is not a relevant yardstick. The volume of the Commonwealth's overseas debt in relation to both the gross domestic product and the export income is still relatively low. Surely the real question relates to our ability to meet interest payments and capital repayments rather than the debt per capita. Following the recent package of yen borrowings, the Commonwealth's external debt will amount to abour 5 per cent of the GDP. This compares with 6.5 per cent a decade ago. The relevant percentage for export income would be 38.3 per cent at 1977-78 levels compared with 53.2 per cent a decade ago. The honourable member for Fremantle conveniently forgets those figures. 
Let us look at what has happened in Australia. The Opposition suddenly has become interested in some new economic theory but it has not come up with any alternative to the Government's policies. The Opposition just does not like our program. 
It may well be that but the honourable member for Fremantle has not told us what the Opposition wants. He has merely criticised the Government's policy. It would be helpful if he were to give us some suggestions. Maybe we would see some bright new ideas. But certainly they have not yet been forthcoming. The Australian Government's borrowings overseas as a total amount on issue at the end of 1955 as a percentage of the GDP represented 12.7 per cent. Let me give the percentages in five-year leaps. As a percentage of the GDP, overseas borrowings in 1960 represented 10.1 per cent. In 1965 the borrowings represented 7.8 per cent of the GDP; in 1970 they represented 5.3 per cent; and in 1975 they represented 1.9 per cent. That was the lowest percentage for about 25 years. That percentage remained at the same for the borrowings in 1976. The percentage of overseas borrowings is now up to about 4 per cent of the GDP, compared with 12 percent 20 years ago. 
I ask the honourable member for Fremantle this question: What is the crucial point we are talking about? Is it the per capita borrowing or our ability to repay? The honourable member suggested that the make-up of the overseas borrowings was disadvantageous to the Australian population. In arranging the borrowings careful attention has been given to ensuring a manageable spread of maturities in future years. Although a concentration of repayments occurs in the years 1981-82 through to 1985-86 there should be no difficulty in meeting these obligations either through full repayment at maturity or, if appropriate, through refinancing operations. There is a relatively smooth pattern of maturities year by year. The figures a short time ago showed that for 1979-80 the maturity was for $259m; for 1980-81, $253m; for 1981-82, $539m; for 1982-83, $488m; for 1983-84, $483m; and for 1984-85, $465m. For the year 1988-89 there will be a maturity of $194m. There has been a careful spread by the Government in its borrowing program. I have set out why the Government considers the borrowing program is necessary. It has said so quite clearly in its Budget and it has undertaken, I believe, a responsible program. 
Let us have a look at the purpose of the program. We have heard honourable members opposite say plenty of times, and the honourable member for Fremantle repeated it, that the Opposition is in favour of an increased public works program, but they never say whence they will get the money. They have been talking about wealth taxes. Maybe they want a high deficit; maybe they want to increase our loans, they never tell us that. They just want increased public works programs to the disadvantage of the private sector. I am sure the honourable member for Fremantle would know, and if he does not he ought to know, that the Commonwealth Government goes to the Loan Council and states the purpose of a loan before that loan is obtained. 
Perhaps the honourable member for Fremantle would like to know the details of some of the loans. I will pick just a couple of them. On 24 May 1978 a public issue loan was made in the United States of America. The lead manager for the loan was Morgan Stanley- a bit different from the Iraqis- the amount borrowed was $A 154.4m and the rate was less than 8V4 per cent for five years. The purpose of the loan was for grants to the States for education. Does not the honourable member for Fremantle think that is a good idea? Perhaps he does not. If he does not I think the people of Perth would like to know. Let me take another example; any one will do. On 27 July a syndicated bank loan was made in Switzerland. The lead manager was Credit Suisse. The loan was for $A195m at 4 per cent coupon rate. The final maturity is 1986. The purpose of the loan as provided to the Loan Council is grant to the States funds for housing assistance and capital works'. I ask the honourable member for Fremantle to tell us where he stands. He almost repeated today what he said in a speech he made on 1 1 October 1978. 
Nearly. At page 1716 of  Hansard he  is reported as saying: 
The solutions to these problems, I admit, are not simple. 
We know the solutions are not simple. We found that the Budget was a difficult one to bring down. It was a responsible Budget. Clearly it was aimed at restoring economic growth to Australia. It was a hard Budget, and we admit that. We would have liked not to have had to do the things we did, but the Budget was clearly consistent with the idea of overseas countries of what is responsible. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and members of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade have supported the Budget policy. There was a need to reduce our domestic cost structure so that we can become competitive on the overseas market. 
The honourable member for Fremantle talked about Australia competing in South East Asia. I agree that we ought to be spending more money to try to increase our exports to Asia, and that is exactly what we are doing. Before the honourable member flees the chamber I remind him that he asked what are we doing and why we are not doing more. I think he ought to read the Notice Paper. Perhaps he was in the House only about five minutes before he commenced his speech. If he had been here he would know that only today the Government introduced the Export Market Development Grants Amendment Bill. What is the purpose of that legislation if it is not to assist this country to get back on the road to economic prosperity and to increase our exports to overcome just the sort of problems that the honourable member tried to highlight? The Government is doing just what he suggested. 
The Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  also introduced today the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Amendment Bill which again aims to create a situation in which our manufacturing sector is more competitive so that it can compete against the Western developed countries, especially in the Asian markets to which the honourable member referred. I believe that the loan program as set out in the Budget is a responsible move by this Government. The program has resulted from a Budget which is aimed at bringing down inflation, bringing down interest rates and making our Australian economy more competitive. I strongly support the Bill and reject the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether he is aware of the importance of the Redcliff petrochemical project to the future of South Australia, particularly as there have been allegations by South Australian State Ministers that the Federal Government was responsible for delays in the Loan Council approval of funds for the Redcliff project? Are those allegations correct? 
-The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  has aptly used the United Kingdom economy as an example of the tax scales that we ought to have in this country. I think that he ought to pay a visit to that country. Even better, perhaps he should talk to some of the people who come to this country from the United Kingdom to try to get away from that desperate economy. This matter of public importance was raised by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  Apparently he has all the answers. I must admit that this is a change because on 30 June last year he said: 
There is considerable uncertainty within the Party as to what course we should now adopt. 
I do not know whether that uncertainty has now been resolved. There still seems to be some confusion in the ranks opposite as to exactly what are the proposals. He went on to say: 
This - 
That uncertainty-  is a reflection not only of the disillusion that accompanies loss of government and electoral defeat but also of the recent realisation that economic issues are far more complex than seemed previously to be the case. 
I wonder whether he has learned anything. If he has, I wish he would tell his leader because in a speech made in Canberra last week, on 15 March, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  came up with proposals which were the rehashed proposals which the Australian Labor Party tried to implement when it was in power. Those proposals did not work then and they will not work now. In that speech delivered on 15 March the Leader of the Opposition said: 
A dollar of income is a dollar of income no matter how it is earned. 
That is terribly reasonable, is it not? He does not say what sort of income that is or where it comes from or, in fact, how that income is to be treated. In that speech he called for a capital gains tax and he said: 
We are proposing an exemption from the tax for gains on assets below $200,000. 
In other words, if the Labor Party were elected to office it would have a capital gains tax but it would not tax gains from capital assets when those gains were below $200,000. I ask the Leader of the Opposition: Who will be taxed? If I have a farm which is worth $400,000 and I want to sell it will I sell it all in one year? No, I will split it up and sell it in two years. 
It has never been explained. It is all very well to say that we are always misunderstanding these proposals but why does the honourable member not explain the current proposal for us? Honourable members opposite stand up in this chamber and tell us what the general proposal is, but they have never set the specifics of the proposals. Their leader does not know. Perhaps the honourable member for Cunningham has not read his speech delivered last week. In that speech he said: 
Capital losses could perhaps be carried forward . . . 
Will they or will they not be carried forward? The business community, Australian businessmen, want to know. 
We will find out, will we? The honourable member says that we will not win the next election, he says that we will find out. But in the  Age  of 6 May 1 978  Mr Wran  said: 
I think we can forget the possibility of a national Labor Government for these two elections, say six or seven years. 
He does not agree with Opposition members. Who does agree with them? They cannot agree on economic policy and they cannot even agree on whether they will win the election, and they will not. I will continue with what the Leader of the Opposition suggests. He suggests the imposition of a capital tax. He does not really know what it means. In his speech he went on to say: 
To retreat would be to dump the interests of the ordinary people of Australia, to sell out on the average citizen . . . 
What does that mean? I think he means that he wants a capital gains tax to be imposed and that he wants estate duty to be brought back. A report in the  Australian  on 1 1 May 1978 had this to say about estate duty: 
An Opposition attempt to withdraw the Bill abolishing estate duty was defeated in the House of Representatives yesterday. 
The Opposition clearly wants estate duty to be brought back. I remind honourable members that it was this Government that abolished Federal estate and gift duties. It abolished these duties on assets passing between spouses, between parents and children and between grandparents and grandchildren. The duties will be abolished altogether afer 1 July this year. Let me read again those words of the Leader of the Opposition: 
To retreat would be to dump the interests of the ordinary people of Australia . . . 
That is, to retreat from a capital gains tax and an estate duty tax. He is not the only person who is saying that. On 10 May 1978 the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  said in this place:   . . the re-imposition of death duty, the introduction of a wealth tax or a combination of all these actions is something to be determined in the years ahead. 
He is not quite sure what should be done. I am not quite sure for whom he is speaking. I think he is speaking for the Labor Party. But apparently it is to the advantage of everyone that these taxes be imposed. The Leader of the Opposition said that the Government is dumping the interests of the ordinary people by not imposing them. Let us look at some of the cases in relation to which these taxes do apply and see whether they are really in the interests of the ordinary citizen. 
This year a person was killed in South Australia. South Australia is one of those Labor States which still imposes succession duty- the sort of thing a Federal Labor government wants to introduce. I wish to read from the Adelaide  News  of 7 March a front page article about one of these ordinary citizens whom the Labor Party does not want to hurt. The article stated: 
A couple whose daughter was knifed to death by her husband face a bill of nearly $2,000 . . . to pay for her death duties. 
For Sid and Joan Ellis, of Alberton, it is a bitter sequel to a night of horror when their daughter, Stephanie, died. 
Her estate is valued at about $ 1 1 ,000. 
The couple now have to pay $2,000 in death duties. The article continued: 
We are not wealthy people and to us the money the State plans to take is a vast sum, '  Mr Ellis  said today. 
It may well be that since that time the Premier of South Australia, because of a State by-election, has tried to get the tax removed in this particular case. However, a tax of this sort will have this effect right throughout Australia. The Leader of the Opposition is saying: 'estate tax will not hurt the ordinary citizen, we will not hurt those sort of people', but such a tax does, and that is the whole point. 
What about the other taxes that the Opposition would impose? In the speech to which I referred earlier the Leader of the Opposition said: 
We will not retreat from our commitment to implement a resources rental tax. 
Of course, the Opposition also wants to impose a petroleum revenue tax. The honourable member for Cunningham said that this would be a good thing. He also went on to say that nothing had happened under the energy policy that this Government has implemented and that there have been no benefits flowing from the tax concessions that the Government has given to the petroleum industry. The honourable member for Cunningham just does not know what is going on. He should get out of this place and take a look round the country. The removal of the tax has had the effect of increasing the exploration. I ask the honourable member for Cunningham: How many exploration wells were drilled in 1975 when his Party was in power? He says that the previous Labor Government was terrific and did all the right things. How many wells were drilled then? About one well was drilled. I ask the honourable member to tell me how many wells were drilled last year. Fifty-two wells were drilled last year. The honourable member has no idea how we are to meet our oil needs. It is estimated that between 83 and 140 wells will be drilled in 1979. It is anticipated that shortly there will be seven off-shore rigs operating in Australian waters, the highest number ever. Australia has an energy crisis, but what is the Leader of the Opposition saying? He has said: 
If the rate of profitable return is higher than necessary to encourage risk investment then the developer should pay a rental charge for the additional benefit he derives from his monopoly rights. 
At what rate would that be? How would we determine that profit rate? Who would fix the rate? We know what happened when the Labor Government talked of fixing such a rate, it scared all investment out of this country. Is that the way to resolve our energy crisis? Our self-sufficiency rate has increased under this Government and we look like being able to sustain our consumption levels for another three years because of the discoveries that have taken place under this Government. 
It is not just in the general area that this Government has dramatically assisted the private sectors and the economy of Australia. The Government has also given real assistance to specific sectors such as the rural sector. The previous Government took away every incentive available to rural industry. The Labor Government did not want to kill the goose that laid the golden egg but it plucked the goose until it did not have a feather to fly with. In fact, the Labor Government then left it out in the cold until it nearly froze to death. The Labor Government took off the superphosphate bounty. We put it back on. The Labor Government abolished the fuel equalisation scheme. We brought it back. The Labor Government imposed an export meat inspection charge costing $25m. We took it off. We gave incentives to the farmers to produce. The Labor Government refused to extend unemployment benefit to primary producers. We extended unemployment benefit to those people. The Labor Government reduced - 
-It seems to me that the Lusher motion is based on a moral judgment that abortion should not be allowed other than to protect the life of the mother from a physical, pathological condition and that that life could be protected in no other way. I wish to address myself to the moral issue, the cost effect of the removal of these items from the medical benefits schedule and to the practical results which could flow if the original motion is passed. The moral judgment concerns the question of when human life begins. I wish to quote excerpts from the report of the New Zealand Royal Commission of Inquiry into Contraception, Sterilisation and Abortion. The excerpts are contained in pages 184 to 189 of that report. The report states: 
Evidence was given to us by eminent scientists from all over the world. None of them suggested that human life begins at any time other than conception. 
The report goes on: 
The real point to which the arguments have been addressed to us is not as to when life begins, but as to the value which is to be attributed to that life, particularly in its incipient stages. 
Later the report states: 
Is the life of the unborn child to be regarded as being of the same value right throughout the duration of its development and pregnancy, and does its status differ from the status it has when it becomes a born child? 
The report then goes on to outline the three schools of thought of how people considered the abortion question and the question of when human life begins. The genetic school of thought was of the view that at the moment of conception all the characteristics of the human being are determined genetically. The life is never part of the mother but is a distinct individual human life. The unborn child asserts a command over the pregnancy. The conceptus has the ability to satisfy the two qualities of an individual, unity and uniqueness. Also, the fact that a foetus under 20 weeks has never been capable of extra-uterine life and that it is unlikely to survive if born before 24 weeks, does not make it any the less an independent being. The second school of thought is the developmental school. I quote from the report: 
Within this school are those who hold that, while conception establishes the genetic basis for an individual human being, some degree of development is required before one can legitimately speak of the life of an individual human being as being an issue in the abortion decision. The development school does not accept that the establishment of the genetic basis of itself will constitute an 'individual human being'. Some degree of development of the embryo is required before full human status is assigned to it. Those who are persuaded to this line of thinking believe that life is a continual process with growing stages of significance deserving different degress of moral concern. 
The report then went on to outline the third school of thought, which it called the social consequences school. The main views of this school, as stated by the report, were: 
Biological facts do not directly dictate the definition of human'. The decision to call the conceptus a human being is to be made on the basis of the social consequences of the decision. People do not feel the same emotional response to the zygote and the embryo as they do to the unborn child in the later stages of pregnancy. Society has never regarded the foetus as a human being and no nation requires that a dead foetus be treated in the same way as a dead person. 
I think it is important that the general schools of thought in that report are considered because it is clear from the number of abortions that are being carried out in Australia at present that varying values are placed on the unborn child. I refer to an article in the  Herald  of Saturday, 10 March of this year which details some of the findings in a report compiled by  Dr J.  A. Johnson, who was the research director of the 
Family Planning Centre at St Vincents Hospital in Sydney, and by  Mr D.  B. Roberts. The article says that the authors interviewed 200 women in clinics during what the women thought was part of the normal pre-abortion counselling. It states: 
Most of the 200 believed that abortion was morally wrong, but they rationalised their own cases and were firmly resolved to terminate their pregnancy. Only 3 per cent said they would continue the pregnancy if no safe legal abortion service were available. Eleven per cent said they would be willing to abort themselves. Four per cent would threaten suicide and 66 per cent would seek help for an abortion elsewhere- even untrained people. 
I realise that  Dr Johnson's  bone fides have been questioned. But even if that report is only half correct, it presents an extremely disturbing situation. It seems that people are rationalising their morals along the lines of one the latter two schools of thought which are in the excerpts to which I referred. It seems that regardless of the moral judgment this Parliament makes, pregnant women, having consulted their doctor or doctors and wanting an abortion, while such an abortion is legally available to them, will in fact undertake that course if they can possibly do so. 
It has been repeated many times in this debate that the legal regulation of abortions is within the power of the State Parliaments and not this Parliament. That being the case, the motion by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  suggests that whilst we cannot change the legal position, at least we should do what we can to show our concern on the moral aspect. For the honourable member for Hume, that means the removal of the benefits payable under the medical benefits schedule for such operations. Many other people who agree that the removal of such benefits is at least a step in the right direction suggest that the money could be better spent in other ways. Whilst I think that the question of money is the most peripheral and unimportant issue in this whole debate, I suggest that if the honourable member's motion is passed it is doubtful whether there will be any saving at all to the Commonwealth. If women continue to exercise their legal rights to have abortions and some find that they cannot afford their own doctor or a private hospital without the assistance of the scheduled Commonwealth medical benefits, then, as many speakers have said, including the mover of the motion, they would have access to a public hospital. I believe that this could lead to delays, and for many women who are demanding an abortion certainly it will be a less satisfactory situation. In proposing the motion yesterday, the honourable member for Hume said that the legal situation regarding abortion had resulted in 'the excessive use or over-use of public funds, and Parliament should see that it does not continue'. Whilst many may agree with that statement, I do not see how this motion will remedy the situation. If the motion has any effect, it will force lower income women into public hospitals where this Government, together with the State government, picks up the whole bill. In private hospitals there is at least the prospect of a contribution from a fund and/or the patient, and the period of stay in hospital is likely to be less. When government hospital bed costs are running at upwards of $80 a day, I cannot see that there will be any net saving to the Commonwealth. In fact, I would be very surprised if there were not an increase .in public funding if the motion is passed. 
Finally, let me make it clear that I am deeply concerned at the results of the survey I have already quoted. Further, I find the number of abortions carried out in this country to be greatly disturbing. I believe that we should all support programs such as sex education and family planning which will assist in reducing the number of abortions sought. The motion and the amendments, with the exception of the amendment moved by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon),  aim to restrict the Commonwealth scheduled medical benefits, in the words of the right honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch):   in order to remove the appearance of Commonwealth approval for abortions which are not required for physical/medical reasons. 
In my opinion, while these operations are legally available in the States, the practical effect, if any, will be marginally to disadvantage low income women by forcing them into public hospitals. There is a good prospect that it will cost the Commonwealth more than at present because of the funding arrangements of our public hospitals. I find it difficult to accept that by spending as much if not more in money terms we will give the appearance of disapproval of abortions. Regardless of the decision that this House may make on the motion or the amendments, I believe that, if nothing else, the debate has served to remind and perhaps in some cases awaken the Australian population to the grave and continuing problem of the number of abortions in this country. I hope that the debate will enforce in the minds of honourable members the need for our continuing support of programs that will assist people to become better informed and, as a result, hopefully they will not find themselves in the position of having to seek an abortion. 
-I refer the Minister for National Development to the article in today's  Australian Financial Review  regarding a telex from Caltex Oil (Australia) Pty Ltd. Is the Minister satisfied with the security of his office? Would the interests of Caltex be served by the release of the telex referred to in that article? Has the Minister already dealt publicly with the fuel situation and rationing in an article published in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 10 March? Finally, does the Government agree that oil companies ought to be able to recover the higher costs of nondomestic crude provided such increases in domestic prices of fuel take fully into account the proportion of cheaper domestic crude to which the companies have access? 
Following my approaches to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, is he now aware that commercial TV stations include satellite pictures of cloud cover in their weather bulletins? Such photos would, of course, be of assistance to farmers but they are not provided in the Australian Broadcasting Commission's weather bulletins. Is the Minister aware that the ABC suggests that it cannot afford the $ 10 required to purchase the photos from the weather bureau? Will the Minister take up the matter with the ABC to see whether it can structure its expenditure to include cloud cover pictures in its weather bulletins? 
-Is the Treasurer aware that the South Australian Government has announced its intention to limit shareholdings in Santos Ltd? Further, is the Treasurer aware that shareholders with more than the prescribed holding may be required to forfeit their shares in a forced sale situation? Does the Treasurer agree that such action will harm Australia's and South Australia 's prospects for further investment? 
-Before discussing the matters which have been raised by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  I think it would be worth while going through the details of the Bill so that we know what we are talking about. It seems that both he and the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  have read only the letters from the union secretary and have not read the Bill. On many occasions members of the Public Service have come to me complaining about what they see as inefficiencies in their departments. Some have suggested that they have insufficient work to do. More often they have come complaining of others in their department who are not being fully utilised. I think this latter problem is one which can be deleterious to the morale of any worker, be he in the Public Service or within the private enterprise sector. People who are doing a normal day's work but who are consistently in the company of others who have little to do may feel distracted by the other person's obvious free time, or may become concerned about the apparently inequitable work load or be genuinely embarrassed by the waste of public funds. Of course, depending on the nature of the person involved, they may even feel jealous of those with little or nothing to do. This sort of problem can arise in the Public Service because of the nature of the work involved, where the work load can change dramatically at different times throughout the year. 
Another feature of the Public Service which concerned me was the lack of independent advice given to those responsible for the efficient working of the various departments or sections. I have spoken before in this House of the need for efficiency audits. I am pleased to say that these have now been implemented by this Government. These audits should enable an independent assessment of the means by which the objectives of the section or department are being met. I believe that this Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill will be of assistance in both areas which I have mentioned. The Bill aims to increase the efficient and economic use of staff within the Public Service. 
Clause 9 of the Bill states that the permanent head of a department is responsible for ensuring that the department operates in such a manner as to make efficient and economical use of the services of the persons employed in that department. It then sets out the means by which this aim is to be achieved. Surely the role of government is not only to provide programs to serve the needs of the Australian population but also to ensure that those programs are carried out efficiently. After all, it is the general public, the taxpayer, who is paying for such programs. 
This Bill enables employees to be redeployed. The objects are set out in clause 7. I think these objects are worth reading out to the Parliament. Clause 7 reads: 
) The objects of this Part are- first, to ensure, to the greatest extent that it is practicable, that each Department and each prescribed Commonwealth authority operates in such a manner as to make efficient and economical use of the services of the persons employed in the Department or by the authority; . . . secondly, to ensure, to the greatest extent that is practicable, that each employee in a Department, and each employee of a prescribed Commonwealth authority, whose services cannot, consistently with the achievement of the first object of this Part, reasonably be used in the department or by the authority . . . 
The clause then sets out the various grounds upon which employees may be declared to be eligible for redeployment or retirement. I think these are worth listing. They relate to people who, because of a physical or mental incapacity, are incapable of performing their duty or, secondly, to people who are excess to the number of employees required in that department or, thirdly, to those who come within the areas to be prescribed. The Government has already made it clear that it will be looking to prescribe those persons who no longer have an essential licence or qualification to be able to carry out the job, or those with limited efficiency or an incapacity to perform work at a standard consistent with the efficient working of the organisation. It is important to note that regulations prescribing these other reasons can be made only after the Public Service Board has consulted with employee organisations and reported to the GovernorGeneral on the results of those consultations. 
Take the case of a person who falls within one of these categories and becomes eligible for redeployment. Clause 10 of the Bill makes it mandatory for the departments and the authorities to notify the Public Service Board that an employee or group of employees has been declared under this Bill. The employee also must be informed. The Board then has a responsibility to endeavour to redeploy the declared employee or employees within another area of Commonwealth employment. Included in clause11 is the obligation on the Board to look at the feasibility of retraining any declared employee. The honourable member for Melbourne had not read the Bill. He knew nothing about that; he was saying: 'Why do we not put it in?' Under this Bill the employee also has rights of appeal to an independent tribunal against decisions taken under the legislation. Appeals can be made against the decisions of the department or authority to declare any employee to be eligible for redeployment. The employee can also appeal against a particular redeployment action proposed to be taken by the Board. For example, where a reduction in salary would be involved he has the right of appeal. Similarly, a decision by the Board that redeployment is not practical can be appealed against. Clause15, sub-clauses (5) and (6) of the Bill allow for other employees to be joined as a party to the appeal where they may be affected by the result of the appeal; for example, in a case where a department head decides that he has excess numbers in his department. 
It is these provisions which the Public Service unions have criticised. Newspaper reports suggest that the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association is to strike over the passing of this Bill. I have read all the documents which were sent to me by a  Mr Blunden,  who I think is the Australian Capital Territory branch secretary of the ACOA, and  Mr Munro,  the federal secretary. An example of the contents of that information which was sent to members of parliament was  Mr Munro  's statement, which reads as follows: 
There will now be machinery potentially capable of being used to dismantle or discredit any element of the Public Service which offers objective and independent advice to a nonreceptive Government. 
Those same words were used by the honourable member for Melbourne and the honourable member for Port Adelaide, who, as I have said, read the letters but did not read the Bill. I can understand  Mr Munro  's position as secretary of his union. Obviously he would want to obtain Utopian working conditions for his members if he could. However, members of this Parliament have a wider responsibility, both to the Australian public and to the Public Service. We must maintain a balance between the efficient management of Government programs while ensuring proper pay and working conditions for those in the employ of the Government. This Bill enables departments, authorities and the Public Service Board to adjust the staffing resources of the departments to meet the changes in policies or priorities that the Government might make. In taking policy decisions, in creating or doing away with certain departments, the Government is continuously accountable to the Parliament and ultimately to the Australian public at elections. If the Government does not like the news reports emanating from the Australian Broadcasting Commission, it can pass legislation to abandon the ABC, or just the news section of the ABC. However, I suggest it would be a brave Government which undertook such a move on a purely political ground. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! Would the honourable member for 
Barker resume his seat. The honourable member for Port Adelaide has been given enough time to make a passing remark to his friends. 
-I was saying that the Government could undertake a move on political grounds to abandon the ABC or abandon the news section of the ABC. Obviously it would take a brave government to do that. Certainly this Bill does not make such a move any more practical than the current situation allows, despite what the honourable member for Port Adelaide and the honourable member for Melbourne, as well as  Mr Munro  and  Mr Blunden,  might try to suggest to certain elements within the Public Service. 
I now move to the retirement provisions of the Bill. I understand that a number of people are looking forward to the implementation of clause 1 7 of the Bill, which will allow those who have given their service to the people of Australia in the Commonwealth Public Service to retire at 55 years of age. Some may feel that after many long years of service they have done their job or they may wish to move to other areas. Clause 17 of the Bill provides that they will be entitled to retire on a pension which is less than that which they would obtain if they retired at a later date. In general terms, a person retiring at the age of 55 will receive approximately 36 per cent of final salary as compared with about 45 per cent for a person retiring at 60 years of age. We now have the situation that if a person on a standard government financed superannuation pension retires at the age of 65, he will receive 50 percent of his final salary plus a refund of accumulated contributions with interest, which reduces to 45 per cent of salary at the age of 60 and 36 per cent of salary at 55 years of age. In those examples I have assumed that the person involved has had a service of about 30 years. Of course, he would get additional benefits for the number of years served. 
Clause 23 of the Bill provides the basis for making regulations for those employees who are being retired by management; that is, nonvoluntarily. It is intended that the regulations will provide benefits to persons who are retired by reason of their loss of qualification or limited efficiency of persons between 55 and 60 years of age. To them will be provided a lump sum payment equivalent to two months salary for each year of forgone service between 55 and 60 years of age. The other cases of management initiated retirement are already covered by the provisions of the Superannuation Act and determinations of the Public Service Arbitrators. Thus, a person who is compulsorily retired at the age of 55 could obtain up to 10 months salary as a lump sum compensation for service forgone. It is important to clarify this point because at first sight it could appear to be unduly beneficial to those who are compulsorily retired compared with those who voluntarily retire at 55 years of age. The person who is compulsorily retired gets this lump sum compensation which is not available to those who retire voluntarily. 
I telephoned a number of the larger Australian employers and, having discussed the matter with them, I was satisfied that these provisions did not fall into the pacesetter category, bearing in mind the size of the employer and the job prospects of the employee. It ought to be remembered also that those who voluntarily retire at the age of 55 or later presumably do so for reasons best known to themselves. They may have greener pastures to go to whereas those who are compulsorily retired at the age of 55 or above may well not have many job opportunities open to them. I wish to deal briefly with some of the points which were raised by the honourable member for Melbourne and the honourable member for Port Adelaide in previous speeches. They were clearly political speeches based on the letters that they had received from their union bosses in the Public Service. 
Unfortunately, they did not appear to have read the Act although they had read the letters. They quoted the letters but not the Act. They are very upset that people can be retired at the initiation of management or, as they like to say, sacked, without appeal provisions. I wonder whether the honourable members have read section 20 of the Public Service Act. It states: 
If at any time the Board finds that a greater number of officers of a particular classification is employed in any Department or Branch of a Department than is necessary for the efficient working of that Department or Branch, any officer whom the Board finds is in excess may be transferred to such other office of equal classification and salary in the Service as the officer is competent to fill, and if no such office is available the officer may be transferred to an office of lower classification and salary but if no office is available for the officer the Board may retire him from the Service. 
That is section 20 of the Public Service Act. That is already law. I ask the honourable member for Port Adelaide where is the right of appeal. There is not one, and that is the law now. They complain about our not giving public servants the right of appeal. That is already the law, and there is no right of appeal. Section 67 of the Public Service Act states: 
If an officer appears to the Board or the Chief Officer to be inefficient or incompetent or unfit to discharge or incapable of discharging the duties of his office efficiently, the Board may, after report from the Chief Officer, and after investigation into the circumstances, retire the officer from the Service from a date to be specified by the Board, or may transfer him to some other office, with salary appropriate to suchother office. 
There is no right of appeal or, if there is, perhaps the honourable member for Port Adelaide could inform me of it. It would seem to me that his Public Service union bosses do not fully inform him. They told him one side of the story but not the other. We are providing the rights of appeal that are not there now. The honourable member might say: 'Well, I do not like the appeal board '. Let us look at the composition of the appeal board. Clause 16 of the Bill, sub-clause (2), states: 
A Tribunal established for the purposes of an appeal under section 15 shall be constituted by- 
a Chairman - 
Plus one person, nominated by management and: 
one person nominated as provided in the regulations to represent employees. 
Not only do they have an appeal provision, they have a union member on the appeal tribunal. I find the political sorts of speeches that have been made by previous members on the other side of the House to be just that, pure politics and absolute nonsense. They are pretending to represent a section of the Public Service. I think if they start counting the numbers there are not very many. Most public servants want these provisions. They see that there is benefit in the provisions. I believe there are benefits for the whole of the Australian community. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Trade and Resources. The Deputy Prime Minister will be aware of the concern in the bush about rapidly rising fuel costs and the effect these will have on returns to farmers who sell on the overseas market. Does the Deputy Prime Minister believe that farmers should receive additional concessions on their fuel? If so, does he believe that such action is possible at present? 
I rarely feel sorry that a Labor member of parliament has departed from this House but having heard the speech from the newly-arrived socialist Left honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe),  I feel that many people in Victoria would be very disappointed at the loss of the previous honourable member for Batman, Horrie Garrick. 
-Unfortunately, the Australian Labor Party members of this Parliament do not realise that there is a world trend against socialist Left governments. 
-With that curly hair, the honourable member for Port Adelaide can come into my electorate at any time and they will give him a decent crutching 
-Tonight I want to talk about the Government's policy as it has been implemented so far and the need for the measures which were announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on Thursday night. There seems to be a lack of understanding by the general public about the way in which this 
Government's indexation has been implemented. Unlike the Labor Government, when this Government came to office it introduced tax indexation in its first year. It might well be remembered by the House that this action was different from the actions of the previous Government. In 1972 the then Leader of the Opposition made it clear how the Labor Party would obtain funds for its proposed programs by what he called the 'automatic and inevitable massive growth in Commonwealth revenues'. 
-Or breakfasts with Arabs or whatever. After only two Labor Budgets personal income tax collections had increased by 89 per cent. In its second Budget this Government further reformed the personal income tax scales by the introduction of a standard rate of taxation. 
I think it is worth noting the changes that have taken place by referring to the actual tax scales. In 1 975-76 people earning under $2,000 a year paid tax at the rate of 20c in the dollar. Of course, that amount could be varied by rebates but in the year of the Hayden Budget the tax rate for those earning $2,000 a year was 20c in the dollar. In the first year of office of the present Government the amount on which the minimum rate of 20c in the dollar was paid in tax was increased to $2,506. I am talking about the low income earners, earning under $2,000 in 1975 and under $2,506 in the next year. These are the people whom the Labor Party supposedly wants to help. In 1977-78 we increased the basic amount to $3,750. Not only did we increase it but also we abolished the payment of tax of 20c in the dollar on that amount. No longer do people have to pay $400 or $500 tax on that amount. They pay nothing on it. That is what this Government has done in realistic terms for the people about whom the Labor Party is supposed to be concerned. In the last Budget that figure was increased to $3,893. No tax is paid on that amount. The Labor Party says that it is worried about the low-income earners but it was a Labor government which taxed them most. 
It is not only income tax about which the Government has to be concerned; it also has to be concerned about expenditure. The difference between revenue collected through tax, be it income tax, company tax or other forms of tax and expenditure, has become crucial. In the three years to 1972-73 the Commonwealth Government had a Budget deficit which averaged 0.69 per cent of the gross domestic product. As a result of the last Labor Budget that deficit rose to slightly more than 5 per cent of the gross domestic product. That was an enormous increase. This year the anticipated Budget deficit will be about 2.8 per cent of the gross domestic product. That is a large reduction as a percentage of the overall wealth in this country. 
The Government has a further problem because it has been honest and indexed taxation. Personal income tax receipts are decreasing whereas social welfare payments, which this Government, unlike the previous one, has indexed, are increasing. There is a gap in the middle. That, of course, is the Budget deficit. It is generally acknowledged that the deficit has to be brought down. That is the reason why the Treasurer made his statement and took the moves on behalf of the Government to reduce that deficit in order to maintain economic growth in this country. It is fairly generally recognised among economically responsible people that the deficit in the present situation ought not to be too large. Unfortunately, members of the Opposition do not agree with that. I shall quote one line from the editorial of the  Australian Financial Review  of last Friday morning. It stated: 
The heartening aspect of last night's mini-Budget is that it faced up to the realities of the deficit target in both revenue and expenditure terms. 
The editor of that newspaper clearly believes that the deficit must be kept under control in order to maintain the economic recovery of this country and create more jobs in the private sector. The size of the public sector must be limited. The Treasurer made his statement on Thursday night in order to try to overcome some of the problems caused by the growing deficit. It is not all over yet. It is quite clear that the deficit is not the only problem we have. It is not the only factor that contributes to inflation. A number of factors contribute to inflation. The money supply is obviously one of them. However, from the beginning of the next financial year the steps taken will reduce the deficit from the expected deficit of about $4,500m. The moves that were announced on Thursday night will reduce that amount by about $ 1,000m through increases in revenue and decreases in expenditure. At this stage the deficit will probably be about $3,500m. I believe that it has to come down further. Unfortunately, it appears that the Opposition does not agree with that although I think a wealth of economic opinion does agree with it. 
Clearly there is a need to control the other factors which affect inflation. The deficit is one of them and the money supply is another. There has been an increase in the money supply which has meant that the Government has not been able to bring interest rates down as much as it would have liked but the increase in the money supply from the targeted figure of a growth of 6 per cent to 8 per cent to the current figure of something over 10 per cent is not of too great concern. There has been a fairly large increase in balance of payments in our favour. There has been a fairly large increase in the non-farm gross domestic product which of course is welcomed by the farming sector, especially those people in my area who have been affected by droughts in the past three years resulting in low returns. These things have in fact meant that the money supply has risen but the larger than expected increase in the money supply is required to take account of the larger than budgeted growth in the gross domestic product. So the money supply is not an enormous problem. I believe that the Treasurer's statement is realistic and will help to continue the progress which has been made on the inflation front in Australia. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer have been absolutely honest with the Australian public. They have said it will not be easy and we will not be able to solve the problems overnight. It will be hard to bring inflation down as fast as the Government has been reducing it to date. Bear in mind that it was 16 per cent and it has come down to just over 8 per centhalved in 3V4 years. It will be harder to reduce it a couple of per cent further but it will happen as long as we can keep control of the economy. That is a bit different from what the Leader of the Opposition and Labor Party supporters are saying. I think it is important to note what was said on the television program  Nationwide  on Thursday night after the Treasurer's statement was presented in this place. The Treasurer and the Leader of the Opposition appeared on that program. The Leader of the Opposition was asked what economic steps he would take but he did not given an answer'. All he said was: 'I would not have got into the problem '. 
-You say: 'That's right'. What would he have done? It is interesting to have a look at the Hayden alternative tax proposals that were announced to the public just after this Government's Budget was presented last year. Those proposals would not have got Labor into the problem much! He proposed a capital gains tax, a resources rent tax a tax of some sort on family trusts and a restructuring of the tax scales for upper income levels. 
I can read - 
-It will be interesting to hear it. Obviously he has a view that is different from that held by the Leader of the Opposition. He does not believe me. He should read the statement of the Leader of the Opposition of 15 March to the National Press Club. 
-Perhaps I should just tell the honourable member for Melbourne Ports - 
He needs more than instruction. He obviously disagrees with his Leader. The proposals of the Leader of the Opposition are somewhat unclear. Maybe that is the reason the honourable member is disputing that his Leader wants them. If the Labor Party in government were to restore the maximum marginal rate to the 65 per cent level- I think as most honourable members would know, especially the honourable member for Melbourne Ports after his $200,000 payout following service in another Parliament, the rate on the higher income bracket is now over 60 per cent- it would bring in Government revenue of about $50m. That would make a lot of difference! The Government's deficit is about $3, 500m and one of Labor's proposals would increase revenue by $50m. Perhaps that is not enough. Perhaps the honourable member for Melbourne Ports would be willing to pay more on the $200,000 he received. If the marginal rate went up to the unprecedented level of 70 per cent- that is, out of every dollar over about $30,000, 70c would go in tax, which is the sort of thing that the Leader of the Opposition wants- it would bring in $100m. It is like a drop in the bucket. They are Labor's great alternative tax proposals. They would get us an enormous way. The Leader of the Opposition seemed to be a little confused. Last September he said: 
The 1 980s will be a decade of despair. 
On 20 November 1 978 he said: 
The decade of the 1 980s will be a decade of gloom. 
Then on 26 November 1 978 he said: 
The decade of the 1980s can be a period of fulfilment, a period of great achievement. 
Then just before Christmas, full of Christmas spirit, he said: 
There has been too much despair and depression recently. 
He is a very changeable man. He obviously kicks with the wind. This Government is prepared to take the hard decisions and has made the right ones. 
-Following the question from the honourable member for Newcastle, I ask the Prime Minister whether he agrees that the overseas trips of this Government have resulted in access to overseas markets which was not available when this Government came to office. In fact, is the Prime Minister aware of any substantial gains to trade as a result of the overseas tourist trips undertaken by the previous Government? 
I will not take up much of the time of the House but I will make a couple of points, especially in relation to the royal commission to which the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  has just referred. It is interesting to note that in 1971-72 expenditure on health was $2,232m. That figure has grown to just over $7,000m in the last financial year. It is expected to be around $8,000m this financial year. Last financial year's health expenditure represented about $504 for every man, woman and child in Australia. In the past three and a half years this Government has made real progress in reducing markedly the rate of acceleration of increase in the nation's health expenditure. However, costs are still far too high. Therefore, the Government has attempted to control expenditure in the most costly area, that is, hospital costs. Clearly, any such moves cannot put at risk the proper concern for the safety and welfare of the patients. In attempting to control health costs, especially hospital costs, two factors ought to be borne in mind. 
Firstly, the Minister gave details of the net operating costs per occupied bed day from 1979-80. They were estimated to be as follows: In New South Wales, the figure was $1 19.33; in Victoria, it was $142.28; in Queensland, it was $124.82; in South Australia, it was $140.54; in Western Australia, it was $158.25; in Tasmania, it was $155.05; in the Australian Capital Territory, it was $167.32; and in the Northern Territory it was $226.20. The variation itself shows that some States could perhaps learn from others in order to obtain the most efficient hospital administration possible. The second factor that ought to be borne in mind is the findings in the report of the South Australian Public Accounts Committee concerning South Australian hospitals. Let me outline some of the findings of the report by way of example. The number of staff employed in metropolitan general hospitals increased from 3,981 in June 1967 to 10,317 in July 1978. That is an increase of 159 per cent. The average daily number of in-patients increased from 1,515 to 1,937, an increase of 28 per cent. So there was a 159 per cent increase in the number of staff and only a 28 per cent increase in the number of people using the hospitals. The staff employed in the central office in South Australia increased from 91 in June 1967 to 278 in July 1978-a 205 per cent increase. The total number of staff in all three categories, that is, the metropolitan psychiatric hospitals, the general hospitals and the central office, has increased by 145 per cent while the overall number of daily in-patients has fallen by 1 37 or a decrease of 3.7 per cent. 
An investigation in South Australia reported on some of the problems that were occurring in some of the hospitals. In April 1976,  Mr J.  A. Epps of the Auditor-General's Department reported on food costs at Northfield wards and recommended that a further investigation be made into the control of food costs at other hospitals. Despite this recommendation, two years later the South Australian Government had still taken no action. The Epps report estimated food losses at Northfield between 1970 and 1975 to the value of $80,000 per annum. In this regard I mention a transcript read to me over the telephone tonight of an interview held in 1977, prior to the State election, between  Mr McEwin,  a reporter in Adelaide and  Mr Dunstan  the then Premier of South Australia. During that interview,  Mr Dunstan  first said that he had not read the report and that in any event the waste was much less than $80,000 a year. When pressed, he still denied the waste but later said that he had seen the report. I think it is lucky for Labor and  Mr Dunstan  that  Mr Dunstan  got out of politics. 
Although evidence of misappropriation at Queen Elizabeth Hospital was not uncovered, the police reported 'gross wastage caused to some degree through mismanagement by hospital supervisors'. Since then, meat consumption at Queen Elizabeth Hospital has fallen by 20 per cent, which represents a monthly reduction of two tonnes of meat valued at $3,600, or an annual saving of $43,200. Of course that figure would be a lot higher now. I believe that these two factors- the variation in State operating costs and some proof of waste in South Australian hospitals- are two good reasons for the Commonwealth's holding an investigation into health costs with a view to increasing the efficiency of hospital administration in Australia. 
The other factor to which I wish to refer very briefly is the isolated patients' travel and accommodation assistance scheme. This scheme, which commenced on 1 October 1978, provides financial assistance to help meet the travel and accommodation expenses incurred by people who travel more than 200 kilometres to receive specialist medical attention. Previously, these people could have been faced with considerable expense when they required specialist medical attention. The scheme was a great innovation by this Government. However, there were some anomalies. Clauses 4 to 8 of the National Health Amendment Bill and the regulations proposed to be made give effect to changes which will overcome a particular problem on Kangaroo Island in my electorate. As will be known, the allowance was paid only to those people who lived beyond 200 kilometres from the place where the specialist was giving treatment. Obviously the people of Kangaroo Island had to bear costs which were far in excess of costs being borne by people just over 200 kilometres from Adelaide. The people of Kangaroo Island were not entitled to the allowance because they did not live 200 kilometres from specialist services. Some parts of the island are in excess of 200 kilometres away from Adelaide, but most of the population lives within the 200-kilometre radius. 
I give credit to the Minister for Health for the fact that when I pointed this out to him he said that clearly those people were meant to be included because they probably incur higher costs than those who live on the land 200 kilometres from specialist services. So he has introduced these amendments to the National Health Act to allow people on that island and on a number of other islands to become eligible for the allowance. Those people were obviously in the mind of the Government when it introduced the initial legislation. This legislation is of great benefit to people in the country areas of South Australia and in the country areas of Australia in general. I believe that the Government is to be commended for this great improvement in the scheme. 
Has the Minister for Trade and Resources noted the market place response to the Budget, especially the response on the Australian stock exchanges? Further, can the Minister say what the implications of this response are for the future of the minerals and energy industries in Australia? 
-Is the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware of the genuine concern about the lack of industrial development in South Australia? Is South Australia lagging behind the other mainland States? Is the Minister able to give a reason for the relative decline in South Australian industry? 
-There is no doubt that this Budget is the right one for Australia at this time. There has been a return towards a more fundamental strength in the Australian economy. Solid progress has been made by the Government in correcting the imbalances in the economy. The most obvious success of the Fraser Government's policies has been the reduction in inflation. Table 6 of the Budget Papers at page 21 clearly shows this. In 1974-75 the inflation rate was 16.7 per cent. Thereafter it fell year by year. In 1975-76 it was 13 per cent, the following year it was 13.8 per cent, the following year it was 9.5 per cent and last financial year it was 8.2 per cent. This clear trend downwards has been interrupted recently by a number of external events over which the Government of Australia has little or no control. 
The first and most obvious event which immediately comes to most people's minds is fuel prices. The increase in the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries price of oil, with the Government's policy of parity pricing, has clearly put an upward pressure on fuel prices. This price increase has brought to the attention of all Australians the scarcity of this resource and the need for conservation. The flow through of the OPEC price increase for oil will clearly affect the inflation rate in this country. It is worth mentioning that as a measure of the Government's concern over the fuel situation, this Budget provides incentives for exploration, research and development. The Budget also provides an outright tax deduction for firms converting oil-fired equipment to other energy sources, such as gas. Clearly, all three of these moves will help to conserve our scarce oil for our cars and tractors. However, I repeat that there is no doubt that the increase in the price of fuel will be reflected in the consumer price index. It is worth noting that whilst we pay a little less than 30c per litre for fuel in the capital cities, the equivalent price in Australian cents per litre of motor spirit is 48.9c in Japan; 46.5c in the United Kingdom; 41.7c in West Germany; 49.8c in France; and 51.6c in Italy. I am advised that among our major trading partners the United States and Canada are two of the few countries which have pump prices lower than our own. 
Another external factor which has had an effect on our inflation rate has been the strong demand for beef in the United States and other overseas markets. We have long been waiting for a boost to our beef exports and a recovery in incomes for those relying on this trade. However, there is no doubt that the subsequent price increases for export beef have fed through to higher domestic prices and as housewives and families switch to other meats those prices also have increased to meet the increased demand. This has resulted in a welcome increase in farm incomes. However, it has had an effect on pushing up the rate of inflation. The increased farm output and exports result in increased income in the hands of farmers, increased export income for all Australians and increased orders for plant and machinery for the manufacturing industry. The flow-on effects all these increases generate more employment and this benefits everyone. There is no doubt that these advantages outweigh the upward pressure such price increases have on the consumer price index. 
However, it is clear that whilst wage increases are linked to the CPI the inflation rate will not come down as fast as we would have liked.. There are two important, points as to the short term future and the prospective CPI increases for the next two quarters. The last CPI increase for the June quarter was 2.7 per cent. It will be recalled that early in July, following the OPEC price increases, oil price rises started to flow through to the petrol pumps. Similarly, the new medical insurance rates took effect from 1 September. These two prices could have a combined effect on the CPI perhaps of the magnitude of less than 2 per cent. Thus one may think that the September CPI increase will be an exceptionally large one, taking into account the petrol prices, the medical contributions and the other general price increases. However, I want to make two important points. I am informed that the fuel prices for the September CPI were measured on 15 July, before the full effect of the OPEC increases was felt at the petrol pumps. Therefore, the effect of the fuel price increases which could contribute about ohe per cent to the CPI increase, is likely to be included not in the September quarter CPI figures but in the December quarter figures. Similarly, I am advised that for the September quarter the cost of medical insurance was taken in the middle of August. Therefore, the increase in medical contributions which took effect from 1 September is also unlikely to be included in the September CPI increase. If the September CPI figure is about the same as the June CPI figureand honourable members will recall that that was 2.7 per cent- then clearly, without the inclusion of the price increases for fuel and medical contributions the December quarter CPI increase could be higher. This delay in reflecting price increases of fuel in July and medical contributions in September, which could add between one to two points to the December CPI figure, could well give a false impression of the direction in which the economy is heading at that time. 
The point I make is that whilst it is almost impossible to make accurate predictions of the inflation rate because of the effects of such things as overseas oil price increases, which are wholly beyond the control of our own Government, it seems clear that the inflationary pressure caused by the factors which I have outlined could well be easing by November-December this year and therefore people should not be unduly alarmed by a large December quarter CPI increase. It may well reflect only the lags I have outlined in the collection of data. 
I move on now to review the effect that this Government's consistent budgetary policy of fighting inflation has had on the economy. I refer to page 5 1 of Budget Statement No. 2. It reads: 
While success on the inflation side has been the more obvious, it is also clear that considerable progress has been made in righting a number of the other distortions in the economy. 
The Budget statement then discusses the need for moderation in wage increases and the need for company profits. However, it is worth noting that the statement goes on to say that as a result of our consistent economic policies, to correct the basic distortions which became apparent in the economy under the Whitlam Government there has been, quoting from the same page:  . . a marked improvement in Australia's international competitiveness, arising both from exchange rate adjustments and from the reduction in Australia's domestic inflation rate. While there are major conceptual and other problems in attempting to construct measures of international competitiveness, various unofficial indexes tend to suggest that Australian industry may now be about as competitive as it was in 1971. 
Let me cite some figures to show how after five difficult years we are starting to restore the economy to the more successful pre-Whitlam days. There has been a sharp turnround in rural exports which has played an important part in our improved international position. For the financial year just completed, the value of rural exports was some 16 per cent greater than in the previous financial year. There was also a strong rise in the volume of non-rural exports which resulted in a growth of some 1 7 per cent in the value of exports. Further, in the year to June 1979 exports by metal manufacturers increased by 3 1 per cent compared with an increase of just over one per cent in the previous year. The export of machinery and transport equipment last year was up by 23 per cent. Clearly our ability to export has been enhanced by our effort to reduce the rate of inflation in Australia. Therefore, the cost of our goods to those people who are buying them overseas is reduced. 
It will be recalled that at one stage under the Whitlam Government the rate of inflation was five points above the average rate for member countries of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Up to the last six months Australia's inflation rate of about nine per cent is nearly three points below the OECD average. Let me give some specific examples. In western Europe in the six months to June 1979 I am advised that inflation stood at about 10.7 per cent. In the United States of America it was 12.3 per cent. In France it was 10.5 per cent. In the United Kingdom it was 13.7 per cent and in Canada and New Zealand it was 10.1 per cent. Compare those rates with the nine per cent in Australia. Obviously while we can maintain an inflation rate lower than that of most of our trading partners our international competitiveness will be enhanced. I believe the figures I have cited show that we are coping better than many other countries with the problems of inflation and we are starting to reap the rewards. 
Another indicator which gives a hint of the view taken of the Australian economy by overseas investors is the inflow of foreign investment in enterprises in Australia. The Australian Bureau of Statistics in its 'Foreign Investment Series' for 1977-78 at page 38 reveals the total annual investments in Australia from 1947. It is quite clear from those figures that the foreign investment in Australia of about $ 1,400m in the early 1970s collapsed during the Whitlam years to under $494m. In other words, it was reduced by two thirds. In 1974-75 and 1975-76 there was a slight increase but investment from overseas was still less than $900m. 
However, in the last three financial years there has been a marked turnaround. In 1976-77 capital investment from overseas increased from $785m to $l,562m-it nearly doubled. In other words, the confidence that overseas investors expressed in the Australian economy following the introduction of this Government's first Budget was overwhelming. In 1977-78 the capital inflow was $ 1,276m. For the last financial year I am advised that that figure has further increased to $ 1,874m. Clearly, overseas investors believe that Australia is handling its economy properly. As a result, they are willing to invest here. Of course, their investment offers the prospect of future jobs. 
I believe it is worth noting that for the first time in six years there has been an increase in employment in the manufacturing sector of this country. I accept that it is only a very small increase but at least the indications are that with the increase in confidence in the business sector in Australia there will be an increase in employment. The employment growth of about 1 per cent over the course of 1978-79 was concentrated in the private sector rather than in the public sector. This is a most welcome sign because it was in private employment that jobs were lost. It is in this sector that jobs have to be regained. At the end of August unemployment was 5.8 per cent of the labour force as compared with 6.2 per cent a year earlier. 
Whilst there will be no miraculous turnarounds in the rate of unemployment it is quite clear that the signs of improvement are encouraging. There are, however, some worrying factors which must be taken into account and met head on. The general view overseas is that the outlook for the world economy is subdued and that we in Australia cannot expect to be completely immune from the consequences. However, it is clear from what I have said that we are in a sound position. In fact, the confidence of overseas investors in coming to Australia shows that we are in a sounder position than most of the industrialised world and thus are judged to be able to withstand such difficulties. If we can maintain our international competitiveness we will make the most of the international opportunities offering. Clearly another round of price hikes or wage hikes will eradicate that competitive edge we have built up over the past four years. 
I turn for a moment to some of the personal aspects of the Budget. It is quite clear that as from 1 December the surcharge will be lifted and people will pay less tax. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said in May this year that it may not be possible to reintroduce tax indexation and remove the surcharge in this Budget. That was a quite clear, precise and open statement made in this House. Therefore, anyone who suggests that this Government has tried to put one over the Australian public is just not telling the truth. The surcharge was introduced in the previous Budget as a measure, amongst other things, to reduce the Budget deficit. The need for the surcharge was explained to the Australian people. It was an open and clear tax. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  in his speech on the Budget of 22 August 1978, said, as reported on page 625 of  Hansard: 
For those in the higher salary range the surcharge will mean a tax increase of 2.5 per cent in a full year or 5 per cent in the eight months. I am hoping to persuade the House that this is another example of inequity, another example of Government policies which are giving more to those who have and less to those who have not. The surcharge will be a greater burden per cent on those with lower incomes than it will for those on higher incomes. 
So said the Leader of the Opposition after last year's Budget. One would think that if his statement is correct the benefit of the removal of the surcharge will go to those people whom he suggested at that time were to carry the greatest burden- that is, the lower income earners. Surely that would be the honest and forthright conclusion to draw. However, that is not the conclusion which he drew. 
-That apparently is the case. It seems that when we put the surcharge on in 1 978 we were harming those on lower incomes and in the lower income brackets. When we took it off this year he said we were only benefiting those at the top of the income scale. In this year's speech on the Budget, on 28 August, the Leader of the Opposition is reported on page 662 of  Hansard  as having said: 
. those families who finish up getting a dollar out of this latest tax rort can count themselves as doing well. I should point out of course, in the interests of balance, that those people at the top end of the income scale will do a lot better than a dollar. 
Really, the Leader of the Opposition just cannot have it both ways. If he says that the lower income earners were relatively worse off when we put the surcharge on, he cannot say a year later in his speech on the Budget that they are to receive the least benefit. I suppose the old adage that you can make figures say whatever you want is applicable here. However, I think that the Australian public deserve a little bit of consistency. This Budget is consistent with previous Budgets brought down by this Government. Our Budgets have endeavoured consistently to reduce inflation, large government and the deficit; to encourage private enterprise and initiative and in the long term raise the living standards of all Australians. This Budget sets the framework for further economic recovery for Australia. Let us all work together to achieve a better and more prosperous Australia so that we may all share the benefits which flow from prosperity. 
-Before I go on to the Bill itself I want to deal briefly with a couple of the points made by Opposition members who have spoken on this matter. The first criticism made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  was that the Bill had not been properly considered and no opportunity had been given to the union movement to consider the Bill. I think that was the major claim he made. That is an interesting point. It is worth looking back over history for a moment to recall that in the years before the 1972 election when the Labor Party came to power, there was the National Labour Advisory Council. The honourable member for Port Adelaide got up in this House and said that the Labor Party would consult with the union movement to do all the right things. It is interesting to note that that National Labour Advisory Council was never called to meet during the Labor Party's time in office. So much for the consultation throughout the Labor Party's period in government. 
It is also interesting to note that it was this Government which implemented the National Labour Consultative Council. Not only did we do that but also we have steadfastly maintained that Council as a basis for consultation. It may interest the honourable member for Port Adelaide that this Bill has been referred to that Council. How can we help it if the union representatives failed to attend? The honourable member said that the Opposition does not like this Government passing legislation which tries to assist industrial relations. It seems now that the Opposition wants us to pass bills to force union representatives before the Consultative Council. That council was set up precisely for the purpose of consultation between Government, the unions and the employers. Now really, I think it is going a little too far to try to expect us to force Labor Party members and union representatives to go to Consultative Council meetings. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide suggested that the Labor Party is more closely involved with the unions and is therefore in a better position to look after industrial relations in this country. That is an interesting proposition. If we look back again to the Labor Party's years in government, in 1973 there were more than  Vh  million working days lost and in 1974 there were over 6 million working days lost. The Labor Government was doing pretty well. In 1976, the first year that this Government came to office, excluding the Medibank strike over  Vh  million working days were lost. So, looking at these figures, who is the better at looking after industrial relations in this country? The Labor Party claims to have a monopoly on that, but the figures do not support its claim. 
In 1977 just over  Vh  million working days were lost and last year, unfortunately, the number increased to 2.1 million working days lost. But none of the figures for those years are anywhere near the figures of the years when the Labor Party held government. What happened to consultation then? What happened to the close affiliation between the Labor Party and the union movement? The Labor Party was not in touch and, quite frankly, I do not think it is in touch now. It seems to have lost all touch with the people of Australia. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide was involved in a television interview on the result of the South Australian election. It was a pretty disappointed person that appeared on television and one would think that some of the lessons of that election may have got through. Apparently they did not. It was during that election campaign that we saw some of the bus strikers in action. If ever a community has made a judgment on the sort of activity it wants to see in relation to the union movement, I believe that South Australians at that election clearly did so. The people do not want strikes. Certainly they want unions and they want unions to represent them and to look after their interests as long as these actions are reasonable. I believe that the Australian community just does not believe that many sections of the union movement are acting reasonably. 
The previous South Australian Government had planned some legislation which the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  would have loved. He has just confirmed in this House that he wants to put the union movement above the law, outside the common law. I make an offer to the honourable member for Melbourne and the honourable member for Port Adelaide to come over to Kangaroo Island and tell that to the people who were concerned in the Wooley and Dunford dispute during which bans were put on the normal trade of the people on the island by Dunford in South Australia. The only recourse those people had was to the common law. It assisted those people on Kangaroo Island and now the Labor Party wants to take that recourse out of the law. Members of the Opposition should ask the people in Australia whether they agree with the Opposition's view. I think that they do not. If honourable members opposite take any notice of election figures they will see that they just do not agree with them. 
The opposition says that ours is a confrontationist government. What we are trying to do is to protect the rights of the individual. Do honourable members think that it is confrontationist to provide for secret postal ballots for all elections to management positions in federally registered organisations? This government introduced that provision, not the Labor Party. Is it not worthwhile for the members of a union to have a vote? Provision has been made for the members of organisations to receive adequate notice of forthcoming elections. Is that confrontationist? Around Australia recently we have had the Hamersley dispute. It lasted for 10 weeks and we saw exports thrown to the wind by the unions in Western Australia. The Waterside Workers Federation of Australia and the Australian Workers Union were involved in a waterfront dispute over wheat with the Co-operative Bulk Handling Ltd in Western Australia. Again, exports were thrown to the wind. Export trade was under threat of being lost permanently because of the actions of these unions. We have had bus and railway strikes in New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. Honourable members opposite say that we should not be bringing in this legislation. The people of Australia have been yelling for this Government to do something and I believe that this Bill is just the right sort of medicine. We have got to do something. Industrial disputation is starting to increase in Australia and I believe we have to give the people within the unions the right to be heard. That is what this legislation is all about. 
There are five main parts of the Bill before the House. The first concerns the requirement for consultation with the Commission. The second concerns the jurisdiction of the Commission concerning strike pay. The third refers to the facilitation of references to the Full Bench, the fourth to standing down applications and the fifth to deregistration. I want to deal in order with each of those parts of the Bill to point out precisely what is involved. There has been a lot of emotion in this debate. Undoubtedly when people are in strife they look to emotion to get away from the facts, but I want to come back to the facts and to let the people of Australia decide whether the provisions of the Bill are reasonable. 
Looking firstly to the requirement of consultation by commissioners. The proposed amendment is designed to require a commissioner to consult with his deputy president, but not a deputy president to consult with a president, before making an award or varying an award with respect to wages and conditions. The purpose of the proposal is to facilitate compliance with guidelines or principles laid down by the Full Bench or by a Full Bench of the Commission. This consultative process will reduce the scope of individual commissioners for making independent decisions which lead to leap-frogging, or the application of wrong principles. There are about 22 commissioners and eight deputy commissioners, so it is not extraordinary that varying decisions have been given. The absence of the restraints imposed by this proposal concerning individual commissioners in making or varying an award has, in the past, led to considerable departures from guidelines and principles enunciated by the Full Bench. 
Some comment has been made already on the example of the independence of action which was shown by Commissioner Deverall in the making of the Transport Workers (Airline) Award in 1978. The details of that award are worth recording in  Hansard.  Prior to Commissioner Deverall 's decision, a Full Bench, after a lengthy hearing of a work value case relating to the Aircraft Industry Award, identified only two main areas warranting wage increases. Following this Full Bench decision, the work value case before Commissioner Deverall virtually ceased, but the Commissioner was able to award substantial increases in wages by circumventing the Full Bench guidelines through the expedient of restructuring the classifications in the existing award. On the basis of the restructuring, increases were awarded to employees as a compensation for increases in flexibility of work arrangements. On appeal to a Full Bench, the increases awarded were substantially reduced, but protracted industrial action at the time of the appeal subsequently led the employers to apply to the Full Bench for a review of the award to increase the rates applicable. 
The disruption caused to the airline industry, both by the granting of the initial award- claims for variations to other awards ensued- and the appeal and subsequent review of the award with its attending industrial action might have been averted had Commissioner Deverall been obliged to consult with a presidential member. Now that is what the legislation is about, and I do not believe that that is confrontationist. 
I refer now to the jurisdiction of the Commission concerning strike pay. The proposal is designed to prevent the Commission making an award, order or recommendation, dealing with claims for payments to employees in respect of time lost as a result of industrial action. The intention is to avoid any possibility of the Commission imposing upon an employer a legal obligation to pay wages to an employee in respect of the period during which the employee was on strike. It is also to prevent an employer being pressured' into making such payments by a recommendation of a member of the Commission acting in his official capacity, albeit that such occurrences are quite rare. 
The need for these provisions arises from a number of disputes and I give but one example which has been briefly referred to already in this debate. On 25 August 1977, in Melbourne, Commissioner Brown recommended that Costain Pty Ltd make a payment to building employees engaged on the State Bank site in Melbourne of a total of five weeks pay lost as a result of being either stood down or on strike during a stoppage that extended for seven weeks and two days. The recommendation was amended on 29 August 1977 so that the payment would be made on the proviso that all bans be lifted. I guess that that was some sort of advantage that was gained from the payment. Not only were they going to be paid for the days that they had been on strike but also the bans had to be lifted. The bans had been placed on various aspects of the site work and they were in support of $30 a week wage claim. 
I believe that those facts speak for themselves. There is a clear need for this provision and I believe that the amendment is a good one. I refer now to the facilitation of references to a Full Bench. The amendments proposed are designed to overcome weaknesses brought to notice by recent proceedings in the Commission concerning the claim by the Australian Telecommunications Employees Association for a 20 per cent increase in all wage levels of members employed by the Telecommunications Commission. Because of the serious consequences of the continuation of industrial action by the ATEA and the clear indication that the dispute would not be readily resolved by the member of the Commission dealing with it, it was desirable that in the public interest it be referred to a Full Bench. The effect of the proposed amendment is to enable the question whether an industrial dispute exists to be referred to a Full Bench, and to enable proceedings in relation to an industrial dispute to be referred to a full bench, whether those proceedings are at the conciliation stage or the arbitration stage. An amendment is also proposed in further response to the ATEA Telecom dispute to enable the  President  of the Commission to withdraw a matter from the member dealing with it, and deal with it himself by conciliation and/or arbitration, or refer it to a Full Bench of the Commission. 
I pass now to the standdown applications and the amendments in this Bill. A stand-down clause in an award authorises an employer not to pay some or all of his employees in specified circumstances, for example, where they cannot be usefully employed because of a breakdown in machinery or industrial action by other employees. Applications for stand-down clauses are usually dealt with by a commissioner or a  deputy president.  The proposed amendment requires the Commission, on a stand-down application, to act as expeditiously as appropriate, having regard to all the circumstances. Provision is also made for a stand-down application to be referred to a Full Bench upon application to the  President.  This will enable an applicant for a stand-down clause either to have the matter dealt with initially by a Full Bench or, where the matter is before a single member of the Commission, to have it referred to a Full Bench in circumstances where he considers the application is not being dealt with in a sufficiently expeditious manner. 
It is hoped that this proposal will encourage unionists as a whole to exert a moderating influence on particular union members or officers who are prone to strike, rather than use the umpire, that is, the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It will also protect employees against termination of their employment contracts. It is a pity that the honourable member for Port Adelaide and the honourable member for Melbourne do not want to help employees. Most commonly the Commission is concerned to insert such clause as an alternative to the applicant employer dismissing innocent employees because as a result of industrial action by other employees no work is available for them. In practice the Commission takes the attitude that an employer is not entitled to have such a clause in an award as of right. Moreover, a standdown clause is not granted automatically to safeguard an employer against economic loss. Evidence must be produced in support of such an application as it would be required in support of any other claim. 
Finally, I deal with the proposed amendment concerning deregistration of organisations. The main features are that the Minister- and I stress that it is the Minister- may apply to the Full Bench of the Commission for a declaration that industrial action by an organisation, or a group of its members, has had, is having, or is likely to have a substantial adverse effect on the safety, health or welfare of the community or a part of the community. I stress the words 'substantial adverse effect'. Where the Full Bench makes a declaration, the Governor-General may, within six months, direct the Registrar to cancel the organisation 's registration, or make orders suspending the rights, privileges or capacities of the organisation, or give directions as to the exercise of any of its rights, privileges or capacities, or for restricting the use of its funds or property to ensure observance of the order. 
The difficulties faced in invoking the deregistration sanction in section 143 of the Act are clearly demonstrated in the case of industrial action earlier this year by the Transport Workers Union. At that time, the Minister announced an intention to initiate proceedings for cancellation of registration under section 143. However, due to the court's interpretation of the requirements of the section the expectation of success of the application was minimal. In addition, the protracted nature of a section 143 hearing would have ensured that even if the application were successful substantial injury to the public interest would have occurred from any protracted industrial action. 
Having regard to the highly developed capacity of some organisations to inflict immediate and sustained harm upon the community, not only are the present grounds for deregistration under the Act inadequate to protect the demands of the public interest- after all, are we not here to serve the public- but the procedural delays involved in section 143 proceedings do not permit a sufficiently rapid response. Even where an application for deregistration is successful, the former organisation may again apply to the Industrial Registrar for re-registration and there is no certainty that, even though the rules of the organisation comply with the Act and the general law that, once again registered, the organisation will not continue to engage in the conduct which originally led to its deregistration. An examination of section 143 shows that it has been used in only five cases since 1948. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The National Companies and Securities Commission Bill is the first step towards providing a co-ordinated approach to the companies and securities industry. The honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  detailed complaints he had about practices in the financial markets. He was really talking about the legislation which is to follow this Bill once the Commission is set up.  His  comments related to the takeover legislation and the companies and securities Act which will come later. Unfortunately he was not dealing with the National Companies and Securities Commission Bill which is before the House. 
Let me outline the reasons for the introduction of this Bill and some of its history. For some time concern has been expressed by those in the companies and securities industry that it would be simpler and more efficient if there were one national companies Act rather than a multitude of Acts applying in the different States. Clearly, a company which operates beyond a single State has to be aware of the companies Act which is in force in the States of its operations. This has necessitated companies expending funds to ensure that they abide by the company law within a particular State. If they operate in a number of States the cost can be high. This problem will obviously be overcome to a great extent by a national companies Act. It is in the interests of those operating in the commercial sector that there be a greater degree of uniformity in both the law and administration. 
A national approach to the companies and securities industry will avoid wasteful expenditure by business and governments, both State and Federal, in the duplication of parallel authorities. I shall come back to this aspect later but I say now that this is one of the failings of the Opposition's amendment. A national approach will be capable of providing greater investor protection. I believe that this is important. After all, it is the investor's confidence in the institutions in which he desires to invest which is basic to our economic system. Without that confidence we will not have a free enterprise system as we know it. 
The Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange in 1974 investigated, amongst other things, some of the dishonest dealings during the mining boom. That Committee made the point that the present situation with different companies Acts in the various States meant that the regulation of the securities markets and the company law was fragmented and uncoordinated. The Committee proposed a national system of regulation. The method of the Government 's implementation of the Senate Committee's recommendation, whilst in accordance with the general community view, differs from the Opposition's view. The former Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  and the present Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  in line with the Government's policies set out to implement the national companies and securities legislation with the agreement of the States. I emphasise that it was with the agreement of the States. Clearly, it is the States which have the companies legislation currently in force. Therefore, they will be directly affected by a national scheme. 
Let me outline the history of this Bill. In 1974 the Rae report was released. Not long after we came to government, on 6 July 1976, the then Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs announced that the Government had decided the general approach the Commonwealth should take in the area of companies and securities industry regulation. On 24 September 1976, the Minister met with State Ministers to discuss proposals relating to the scheme. On 1 1 March 1 977 Ministers agreed to recommend to their respective governments a general framework for a cooperative Commonwealth-State scheme. On 17 March the then Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs made a statement in this House in relation to the progress of the legislation. On 14 May 1978 the Commonwealth and State Ministers reached final agreement for recommendations to their respective governments on a national scheme of legislation and administration. On 19 June the Commonwealth Government agreed to execute a formal document between the Commonwealth and State governments for a national scheme of legislation. On 1 December 1978 the Commonwealth and State Ministers announced that a formal agreement between the Commonwealth and each State government should be executed by the Prime Minister and State Premiers. That was done on 22 December 1978. 
The Opposition in its amendment suggests that we should have acted by imposing a national companies and securities Act on this country without the agreement of the States. It has taken some time from this Government's coming to power to the signing of the agreement last year but I suggest that the Opposition's approach is not consistent with our federalism policy or philosophy. Further, I have already stated that the States have a detailed interest in this area and are currently responsible for its administration. Therefore, I believe that in this situation a co-operative approach with the States is a reasonable, responsible and practical attitude to adopt. There is also some doubt as to the validity of an extensive national companies and securities legislation without State co-operation. Clearly, the Federal Government does have some constitutional power in this area. The question is the extent of such power. The safe alternative is to obtain the agreement of the States. This Bill is a good example of the co-operative federalism which has existed between the State governments and the Federal Government. 
It is in no small part due to the efforts of the previous and current Ministers for Business and Consumer Affairs that this Bill is now before the House. The introduction of this Bill has been unanimously agreed to by all the States. The States have agreed to introduce in due course corresponding legislation in their own State parliaments. The agreement to which I have referred, which was signed on 22 December 1978, sets out the obligations of all the parties. The obligation of the States and the Federal Government, is to set up the National Companies and Securities Commission which is the subject of this Bill. It is worth while looking at the agreement in order to see just what the intention of the parties was in setting up this Commission. The agreement which is a Schedule to the Bill provides in the preamble that the governments of the Commonwealth and States of Australia agree to provide for the uniformity of laws for companies and the regulation of the securities industry by establishing and implementing a cooperative scheme of objectives to ensure that the legislation relating to the scheme is and continues to be uniform throughout Australia at all times. The legislation is to be administered on a uniform basis through the Commission which is set up by this Bill. The Commonwealth and the States are to co-operate in the administration of the legislation and the legislation is to have the minimum of procedural requirements. Part IV of the December 1978 Agreement states that the Bill now before the House shall be substantially in conformity with the provisions of the various Companies Acts and securities regulations currently in force in the States. The Agreement requires that the National Commission shall have such functions and powers as are conferred upon it by the State governments which will enable it to carry out its functions in accordance with the Agreement. 
Clause 9 of the Bill provides that the Commission shall perform its functions and exercise its powers in accordance with the Agreement and shall comply in all respects with the provisions of the Agreement that are applicable to it. The Agreement provides in Part V for the registration of company names. Part VI provides for special investigations. Such investigations in relation to companies or the regulation of the securities industry can be undertaken by the Commission if ordered by members of the Ministerial Council; that is, the appropriate Minister from each State and the Commonwealth either collectively or individually. Each State Minister is empowered to order a special investigation where it appears to that Minister that the public interest is best served by such an investigation. Also the Commission itself can ask an individual Minister or the Ministerial Council to order a special investigation, the cost of such investigation being borne by the Minister or Ministers requesting such investigation. 
In order to prevent duplication and to ensure efficient operation of the new Companies and Securities Commission, each State and Territory, in accordance with the scheme as set out by the Agreement, will be required to carry out the administration of such regulations, subject to the direction of the National Commission. Such direction from the National Commission will not relate to the functions that the State administration performs under its own legislation which is not part of the national legislation. It is this prevention of duplication which I believe the Opposition's amendment overlooks. The co-operative nature of the Agreement is clearly set out in clause 38 of Part XI of the Agreement which states: 
The policy direction and general control over the administration of company law and the regulation of the securities industry throughout Australia by the Ministerial Council and by the Commission, in accordance with this Agreement shall, subject to part VI and to clause 25, and sub-clause 2, be exercised to the exclusion of individual ministerial direction and control by the responsible Minister of the Commonwealth or of the State. 
Finally, in relation to the Agreement which all States and the Commonwealth have signed, the Commission is required under the Agreement and by clause 52 of this Bill to report as soon as possible after 30 June and not later than 31 October in each year on its operations, together with financial statements in respect of that year. I welcome that particular clause in the Bill because I believe that some reports which are coming to this Parliament arrive far too late. I welcome this first step towards a National Companies and Securities Act. I believe that all Australians and their businesses stand to benefit from a more efficient and effective regulatory system. 
-Does the Minister for Post and Telecommunications recall David Hookes hitting five fours in succession at the centenary test on the Melbourne Cricket Ground in March 1977? Is the Minister aware that many rural cricket lovers were prevented from viewing the same David Hookes when he almost set a new record for a succession of centuries in Sheffield Shield cricket in Tasmania this week because the Australian Broadcasting Commission apparently continues to refuse the offer made by Channel 9 to allow the ABC to televise such matches? Further, is it true that such offer by Channel 9 to the ABC is free of charge to the Commission? Finally, has the Minister received the petition from hundreds of my constituents seeking to view such cricket matches and will he use his office to encourage the ABC to review its policy? 
