Does the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs continue to maintain, as he did in this chamber last Wednesday, that no part of the moneys raised by the 1.5 per cent increase in personal income tax is available for distribution to State and local government authorities under the tax sharing arrangements? If so, does the Minister agree that some $8. 5m will be denied to local government throughout Australia by his definition of the extra levy as a surcharge? Does the Government agree with the Minister's definition? 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  I rise to speak with a very acute sense of the honour and the responsibility which the electors of Tasmania have entrusted to me. I hope to serve them well from this chamber within which,  Mr President,  I look to the guidance, proper to your high office. I offer my congratulations to you on your election to this high office. I seek the indulgence of honourable senators to speak in general terms, as is permitted in a maiden speech. 
I believe a widespread apathy, mixed with restlessness pervades the whole of Australian society. Uncertainty as to the future grips our national life.  Senator Mason  spoke yesterday of a deep malaise. I believe it is partly due to the lack of national common goals and aspirations to which we could commit ourselves to give social meaning to our daily life. Certainly the dull and technical language of our Constitution conveys no sense of national purpose. I am not so presumptuous as to suggest a set of national goals: Other matters need attention first. Amongst them is the need to subject fundamental areas of our society to the scrutiny of imperatives which alone can ensure that our organisations and expenditures do serve the full human development of every person in Australia. 
I should like to indicate two areas where I believe this scrutiny ought to be undertaken- the use of armed force and the organisation of the economy. But may I in a preliminary way indicate my conviction that it is in this Parliament that such significant matters require to be resolved. We are the elected representatives of the Australian people and ought not to permit to other bodies the resolution of complex questions of our social arrangements. It is not for others to decide whether by our default or our permission- a default which allows elitist groups, whether in board rooms or in political cells to manipulate society- or a permission, or perhaps submission, which allows a non-elected bench of High Court justices to put parameters on our society. It is for us to decide and then submit ourselves to the electorate. To do otherwise is to evidence lack of nerve but what is worse to subject Australians to decision-makers against whom they have no political redress. 
As a senator I am conscious of being a custodian of a very unusual and vulnerable arrangement in human affairs. At the present moment it is unusual to have a system of government in the world which embraces the idea of a loyal Opposition- a system whereby the majority has the power to make the laws, but recognises the rights of minorities to dissent in practical ways which do not involve violence. Within such a system we may hope to come to a common understanding, not an imposed understanding, of our national destiny as Australians. It is an understanding which I believe is desperately needed if Australians are to see through successfully the construction of a society which will not be dependent on the earning of a wage or salary to secure the goods and services we can so abundantly make available. 
The two areas which I will indicate briefly as crying out for scrutiny are, firstly, the arms trade and the use of armed force and, secondly, the organisation of our trading and commercial life. As to the arms trade, Australia is involved both as a procurer and supplier in an arms trade which diverts resources on a massive scale from the relief of suffering. The arms trade kills the poor by causing them to starve. These are hard words but incontestably accurate. Confronted with unfulfilled basic needs of simple shelter, healthgiving food and clean water the nations spent billions of dollars on armament programs. In the face of such human need the arms trade is fundamentally unjust. It is a scandal that technology and manpower management can be coordinated on an unprecedented scale with the aim of killing other human beings. Yet a lifegiving program on an equivalent scale such as would use precisely the same skilled manpower seems beyond our imagination even before the question of political will arises. 
Would it not be likely to engage the support of the Australian people with all their skills and good will to embark on a clean water program for the countries of the developing world? As a Tasmanian, I am fully aware of the world leadership of Australian hydro engineers, but they are only one segment of the resources of this nation which could be harnessed to such a lifeenhancing project. 
To make clear my position, I am not advocating in this chamber unilateral disarmament in order to serve mankind by the diversion of resources to life-enhancing projects. My personal position is that the destruction of any human life is utterly forbidden. I intend to vote in this chamber in accordance with the tenets of the just war which permit armed collective resistance to unjust aggression- the so-called just defensive war. It is therefore incumbent on me to pursue, as I will in my term here, the answers to the question: What range of armed conflict is the Australian Government prepared to engage in either directly through its own armed forces or in participation with its allies and how do these preparations square with the rules of the just war? 
One of the most fundamental rules is that civilian populations are inviolable. On the small scale the principle is constantly violated by those terrorists who kill civilians in pursuit of a political purpose, and every honourable senator would condemn such terrorism. On the large scale it is violated by preparations for a form of warfare aimed at the destruction of entire cities along with their populations, or perhaps now with the neutron bomb, the preservation of entire cities with the destruction only of their inhabitants. Every honourable senator should condemn such terrorism by nation states. I believe that Australia should play no part in any strategy of nuclear warfare which encompasses such a possibility, and I intend determining while here whether we are currently so participating. 
One of the most disturbing features of our statute book with regard to this matter is the failure of the National Service Act to protect the conscience formed by the rules of the just war. The Act provides that the total pacifist, whose conscientious beliefs do not allow him to engage in any form of military service at any time, need not render such service. But the ordinary person, whose conscience distinguishes the unjust from the just use of armed force, is given no such relief- he must serve. Nor is adequate provision made for training in non-combatant resistance to agression. 
I believe that this chamber should be encouraging the exercise of moral discernment in the use of force and should provide for it. It will not be easy. Some will view as anarchic the proposal that a citizen could conscientiously disagree with his government's conduct of an armed conflict and be relieved from participating in it. 
This point may seem remote and not grounded in any crisis presently facing Australia, but I believe that not to act now, in this chamber, in a time of relative tranquility without an atmosphere of hysteria, will be to condemn future generations of Australians to cultural genocide, such that acting on individual conscience, the most potent insight of our Judao-Christian and Western tradition, will be as remote a possibility as it is in most of the world. 
Conscientious dissent from the program of one's government is described as 'sluggish schizophrenia' by the Institute of Psychiatry of the Soviet Academy of Medical Sciences, one of the symptoms being a paranoid delusion about reforming society. Conscience, I hope, will never be regarded as a disease in Australia. Rather we as legislators ought to be reinforcing the individual conscience as that which culturally makes us what we are- a society where the common good cannot be secured by means which destroy the individual personality. 
The second major area which should be subjected to imperatives of social significance is the organisation of our trading and commercial life. At the moment its only subjection seems to be to the idol of efficiency judged in international competitive terms and, like any false god, it is claiming its victims. The human sacrifice in my State of Tasmania is appalling in its dimensions, and I should say now in this chamber, which symbolises the federal element in our political structures, that failure to devise national policies to deal with this human tragedy will inflame the embers of secession. 
Tasmanians have been prepared for variousreasons to contribute massively to the economic health of this nation for small return. For example, the value of our overseas exports in the year ended 30 June 1977 was $828 per head of population. This compares with a mere $55 1 per head for New South Wales and $589 per head for Victoria. The total value of our overseas and interstate exports in the same period was approximately $860m while imports were $690m, a difference in favour of exports of $ 1 70m. 
We in Tasmania are producers not consumers of wealth. Tasmania was never a mendicant State for any reason to do with our work, productivity and enterprise. Tasmania has also contributed in a substantial way to overcoming the energy crisis in industrialised society. In fact we export energy in refined products. To give honourable senators some idea of the scale, the energy consumed in the refining or production of aluminium and zinc in Tasmania is slightly more than that consumed in the whole of Perth and its suburbs in any one year. With all that massive contribution our income per head of population, as shown in the national accounts for 1976-77, was approximately $4,700 which is about $450 less than the average per capita income in New South Wales and Victoria. 
Tasmanians are not envious. As a result of living in decentralised areas of small population with easy access to an unsurpassed natural environment we have not been angered by the unjust concentration of sumptuary incomes and wealth in the south-east mainland. What is intolerable is that we are part of a federal nation which appears incapable of devising policies which could harness our resources, technology and manpower to relieve the suffering of unemployment. A total of 6.9 per cent of our Tasmanian labour force, over 12,000 persons, are seeking work, and the average duration of their unemployment is 6 months. In Burnie on the north-west coast almost half of those unemployed, 758 out of 1,540, are under 21 years of age, and there are only 34 registered junior vacancies. 
The figures are stark enough. They indicate the human tragedy involved. The false god claims its victims as the social costs of unemployment are seen, particularly in the demoralising impact on our young people who become listless and less and less able to offer skills in the work place. I do not pretend to know the total solution. If the whole of the Tasmanian pulp paper and printing industries were duplicated tomorrow, 6,500 people would still be out of work. 
I am convinced that this national Parliament needs to be possessed of adequate power to deal with interstate trade and commerce and with the business organisations engaged in all aspects of our economic life. We have been fettered and hindered in the task of developing forms of commercial life appropriate to the critical needs of the Australian community by the non-elected Bench of High Court justices, particularly in the period immediately after the Second World War. They have deigned in recent times to allow us to control some trading activities of corporations, but in the absence of reasonable judicial interpretation this national Parliament should be freed by referendum in order to subject our economic life to the common good. I do not mean that we should exert totalitarian control; far from it. I believe that a mixed economy is essential. Complete state collectivism is incompatible with democratic socialism. 
Let me indicate my thought with an example. I applaud the Government's decision to form a joint development and marketing partnership with two private firms to exploit  InterScan,  the aircraft landing system known to honourable senators and developed in the radio physics division of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. This type of cooperation should be the pattern of the future. 
It is not good enough for the nation merely to tax profitable enterprises, although it ought to do that, especially by a resources levy when great natural energy resources are being exploited for extraordinary profits. This is instanced by Utah earning $91m in a recent six-month period from Australian coal resources or Esso-BHP being guaranteed a windfall profit of over $300m this financial year solely because of a Government decision that it may charge import parity prices for 20 per cent of its oil production. That ought to be done. But in order to ensure that the community is well served by these firms the nation should be taking the further step of participating in the ownership and management of these enterprises, whether they are dealing with our natural resources or those resources which simply flow from our community expenditure on education, research and technology, as with 
InterScan. 
The community is well served when jobs are created or at least preserved. However, a business organisation at the moment is not required to make decisions in the light of the impact it may have on its employees. The business merely has to be conducted honestly in the interests of its owners. 
At present, on the west coast of Tasmania a highly skilled labour force which has mined copper without a major industrial dispute in 60 years is in jeopardy. Within the community of Queenstown and dependent services and industries on the north-west coast at least 2,000 jobs are at stake. More than that, the entire region may be devastated if the mine is closed. I intend to say nothing at this point about the corporations involved because this might prejudice the outcome of Federal Cabinet's decision on assistance to this industry. I look forward to an early and just decision to maintain assistance. 
My point is that this Parliament expressly requires the Industries Assistance Commission to have regard to the regional, economic and social consequences, especially the unemployment consequences, of any report it hands down. No private corporation ought to be able to do less when making a decision as to the best use of shareholders' funds. This chamber should be investigating ways of making that social dimension an operative part of directors' obligations. Unless steps such as these are taken to humanise our trading and commercial life then I see no point in Tasmania remaining part of the Federation to the economic prosperity of which Tasmania contributes so much. 

 Mr President, I have touched upon some of the issues which I believe this Parliament should tackle. In particular, I consider that the Senate has a special role to play because the committee system enable it to reflect in a non-partisan way on such fundamental matters. 
I hope I am not naive, but I do insist on the right of all young men to dream dreams. I believe that if we take up the challenge we will help lay the foundations for the creation of a national spirit which may bind us as Australians and enable us to contribute creatively and justly to the history of our region. 
I support the Opposition in opposing this measure. The audacity of the Government in bringing forward this measure at this time is really quite breathtaking. It is in charge of Government Business in this place yet it brings on for debate legislation to provide rebates to crude oil producers before it brings on for debate the legislation which imposes the vicious inflationary tax on consumers of oil products. This chamber is being asked to agree to the forgoing of revenue from the producers of Australian crude before it is being asked to agree to the placing of an extraordinarily unexpected impost on the Australian people. I believe that this timetabling speaks eloquently of the Government's priorities and of the lobbies to which it responds or which it is most anxious to appease. The consumers of oil products can wait for parliamentary debate on the legislation which will impose this tax. In the meantime the extractors of our energy resources have the Government 's ear. The rest of the oil industry and its consumers have the Government's foot, dealing blow after blow. 
The Opposition has over the past several years indicated its general support for a gradual move to import parity price being paid for Australian crude. A gradual move is what we have supported, not this sudden and unexpected surge to immediate parity. We have all the time, as was pointed out by  Senator Walsh,  reserved the right to examine the structuring and the components of this so-called import parity price. After all, the price is composed of various elements, very few of which have any relationship to reality in the sense that the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries prices are set by a cartel of producers. The price OPEC establishes bears no relationship whatsoever to the production costs in the Middle East. It is a means whereby money is obtained from the international consumers of oil. The freight component in the import parity price also is most questionable. As I understand it, the large element in the freight component is the socalled AFRA- the average freight rate assessment- which bears no relationship whatsoever to the average cost of long term charters used by many companies which bring oil to Australia and of course bears no relationship to the question of transport in oil-company owned vessels where transfer pricing is practised and abused. We may well bring this up in the Committee stage. 
The Labor Party has in reserving at all times the right to question the actual components that go into the structuring of the import parity price in general agreed to a gradual move to parity, but what we of the Opposition do object to and why we oppose this measure is the fact that this Government's pricing arrangements as announced on Budget night make an immediate impact on refiners, distributors and consumers of oil products. There are 16,000 distributors throughout Australia- ordinary service station owners. There are refiners throughout Australia who now find they need greatly increased working capital to purchase stocks. Out of the blue a company like Caltex Oil (Australia) Pty Ltd- for which honourable senators might not expect me to express sympathy, but I can understand its predicament in this instance- finds on Budget night that it needs millions more dollars than it had expected to need for working capital. There may be a significant decline in sales in the immediate short term whilst motorists reel under the impact. At the same time refiners will find that the cost of their raw materials will rise by 50 per cent overnight. 
Of course the same applies to the ordinary service station proprietor who has to pay for his stocks. Throughout Australia 16,000 distributors suddenly find that the cost of acquiring their raw product has gone up overnight. Where will they obtain the extra working capital? The Prices Justification Tribunal will not permit them to pass on any costs related to the obtaining of this extra working capital. It is quite clear- I accept thisthat no firm or individual can be immune from a change in his financial position on Budget night. When a clear understanding was fostered by the Government that the move to import parity would be only gradual then one can describe what happened on Budget night- the move to full import parity to refiners- only as the culmination of a massive deception which led business to make decisions in good faith. It now finds those decisions valueless. I can assure honourable senators that no future Labor Government will treat industry in such a contemptible manner. 
Not only is there an immediate apparent effect on the refiners and the distributors of oil products but also there is a massive inflationary impact on consumers. Let me give the Senate a couple of down to earth examples of the inflationary effect of this measure. Firstly, I deal with the transport of goods and persons throughout Australia. Outside this building earlier today we saw those great semi-trailers which roll down the highways between the State capitals. These vehicles carry about 20 tons in freight and average about  4lA  miles to the gallon. A semi-trailer uses about 124 gallons of petrol on the 560-mile trip between Sydney and Melbourne. The increase of 16c in the price of a gallon of petrol as a result of the Budget will add about $40 to the cost of transporting each lorry load of freight between those cities. That simple sample is an indication of the impact which this measure will have on transport throughout Australia. Anyone who talks, as I did earlier today to the chaps who drive those semi-trailers, will be assured that as a result of the decision announced on Budget night there will be many more semi-trailers in the repossession yards in the great cities throughout Australia. 
It is quite clear that high fuel prices are significant in their impact on the economy. As was pointed out by my colleague  Senator Walsh,  the impact on an island State such as Tasmania which is dependent largely on airlines for personal travel to the mainland will be severe. Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia can each expect about $14m to be added to their costs in the next financial year. It has been estimated that on that basis we could expect a price increase in domestic fares of over 3 per cent- yet another effect of the Government's hasty move announced on Budget night. Perhaps what this Government is doing can be illustrated best by considering a simple staple food such as bread. Wheat farmers will spend an extra $700 harvesting their crop, as a result of the impost announced on Budget night. It will cost more to truck wheat to the silos, more to haul it in diesel trains to the cities and more to mill it, and more to bake the bread and deliver it. Let us see how the consumer price index deals with this attack on a staple of everyone 's diet, such as bread. 
The cost to farmers is quite horrendous. Having just pulled out of a rural recession, they were greeted in the Budget with increased income tax on whatever they managed to make after paying the damaging extra slug in fuel costs. It is no wonder that we read statements such as that made by  Mr Barry  Cassell, a former director of the National Country Party. He made his statement on 4 July, a couple of days after the abandonment by the Government of the resources tax. He realised on 4 July that with the abandonment of a resources tax the consumers and not the extractors of petroleum products would end up funding the Government's Consolidated Revenue Fund. Is it any wonder that he made this statement which, one may think, makes a rather pointed observation about the futility of rural organisations supporting the National Country Party. He said in Rockhampton on 4 July: 
When rural industries collapsed and strong political leadership became necessary there was little evidence of a dividend return on farmers 'invested political funds. 
If a former director of the National Country Party on 4 July realised, as I have no doubt he did, that oil consumers rather than oil extractors would have to pay into Consolidated Revenue and went on record as saying that farmers are throwing away their money by giving it to the National Country Party, his words should carry some weight. However, being more perceptive, Tasmanian farmers and their organisations some years ago saw the move of the National Country Party towards appeasing the mining lobby rather than serving the interests of rural industry. Several years ago farmers in Tasmania and their organisations rebuffed the attempts of the National Country Party to organise in Tasmania, so much so that  Mr Bill  Cassimatty, a man of very considerable farming expertise and political talent in Tasmania, declined to field a National Country Party team in the last Federal election. So much for the National Country Party looking after the interests of those engaged in agriculture. We cannot expect it to say anything because its interests are now firmly attached to the mining lobby. 
Why then did the Government decide that despite the inflationary impact of this particular measure it should go ahead? The answer is clear. It was a measure designed simply to raise revenue, nothing more. Over one-third of the extra revenue to be raised this financial year, some $676m, is to come from the consumers of petroleum products as a result of this decision. There is no other reason for this measure. Some other reasons were advanced by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in his speech on 15 August. He spoke of the decision being taken in the light of both the budgetary situation and the desirability of improving energy use and the allocation of resources. That is absolutely ludicrous. Can any honourable senator opposite give me an indication of the comprehensive energy policy of the Government within which this sort of pricing arrangement might make sense? A statement by  Mr Newman,  the Minister for National Development, was reported in last Saturday's  Examiner.  In the context of  Mr Newman  defending the increase in oil prices, the report states: 

 Mr Newman stressed that this pricing policy was the key to development of a national energy policy. It - 
That, is the pricing policy-  would provide a framework in which oil conservation, oil exploration and the encouragement of alternative energy strategies could be further disclosed. 
There is the admission that this Government determines a pricing policy in order to fund the Budget. In other words, it determines a revenue raising policy- that is the key element- and the energy consumption patterns will develop within that framework. No doubt that is the case; but would it not be more rational for the Government to devise an optimum energy consumption policy, bring it before the nation for debate and refinement, and then effect a price structure in order to serve that energy policy? An energy policy comes before a pricing decision. To have the pricing decision first as the framework within which an energy policy should be developed is ludicrous; but it shows how threadbare is the reason given by the Treasurer to the public on Budget night. 
If I thought for a moment that any of the extra revenues accruing to the Government or the money channelled to Esso-BHP were to be used in the pursuit of an advanced energy conservation program or research into alternative sources of energy, many of which were indicated by  Senator Collard,  I could be somewhat sympathetic to the proposal.  Senator Collard  mentioned that there is need for research into, for example, the sugar beet industry in Tasmania as a possible source of ethanol. There is also the question of refinement and further use within Australia of valuable and wasting assets, a scheme which is envisaged by the proposed petrochemical plant in South Australia. If there were any indication that any of the extra revenues going to either the Government or EssoBHP would be directed to these ends I could go along with the Government's proposal to an extent. No doubt the Tasmanian and South Australian Liberal senators, despite the fact that there is no indication that this is where the money will go, will vote for this measure. After all, apparently they cannot dissent even in the party room on any aspect or line of the Budget; so we cannot expect them to dissent in the Parliament. 
The key point is that there is no provision in this Bill for the directing of any part of the forgone revenue- the rebate of hundreds of millions of dollars which this Bill effects- to exploration and development in the energy sector as a whole or in the oil sector in particular. In the  Australian Financial Review  on 7 September, the Chanticleer column has an article headed: 'BHP robs oil to pay steel and minerals'. The article shows clearly that for most of this decade BHP has been using cash generated from oil to invest in steel and minerals. It shows that the company generated cash of $446m from Bass Strait, after exploration expenses, in the last four years of which only $ 1 94m was invested in capital works in the oil division, including $6 lm spent on buying into and paying calls on the North West Shelf venture. By contrast, capital investment in steel and minerals was well in excess of cash generation. The gap was made up with oil money plus loan and equity raisings. The article does not take into account sums representing working capital. 
It is quite clear that BHP's steel and minerals division has been extremely successful in getting funds from the greatly enhanced cash flow and profits from the oil division. My point is this: What BHP has done is perfectly legal, honest and proper, and I do not agree with the title which Chanticleer gave to his article- 'BHP robs'. That is emotive and gives an unfortunate impression of the situation. What the community needs to understand, to use a well known expression, is that by forgoing a resources tax and allowing the company to retain these huge profits, as it does by virtue of this rebate, the community is paying for the development of BHP's steel and minerals division. The community is paying for exploration and development that might take place in the oil fields. BHP is, in effect, selected by the Government as its agent. If that is the case, vigorous supervision should be exercised to ensure that the agent puts money where the community desperately requires it, namely, into energy exploration and development. That is not done under this measure. We are forgoing revenue from the public purse. We are granting rebates of hundreds of millions of dollars, and nowhere is there an assurance given that the money will be spent in energy resource exploration or development. I have not been able to trace what may happen to the funds going to Esso, but I can assure the Senate that I intend to find out. The point I have made is that the Government ought to announce a policy of directing these funds to the sorts of projects about which  Senator Collard  talked at length. 
What does this Bill do? Let us get down to the basics of it. In respect of 80 per cent of old oil in the Gippsland Basin, the producers will receive $12.59 a barrel from the refiners and consumers. Of that $12.59, they will pay $10 a barrel to the Government. There is no rebate. In respect of 20 per cent of old oil in the same basin, the producers will receive $12.59 a barrel from the refiners and consumers and pay only $3 a barrel to the Government after this rebate. As far as 
Esso-BHP is concerned, this measure brings about an average return of $4.30 a barrel for the whole field, of which BHP's share is 75 million barrels. As the years go on, the proportion of oil in respect of which the oil companies pay only $3 a barrel rather than $10 a barrel- that is, after they get the rebate-will be 20 per cent, increased the following year to 35 per cent, increased the following year to 50 per cent, and thereafter it is negotiable up to 100 per cent. Correspondingly, of course, government revenue decreases. This obviously generates a massive cash flow, which is probably more important to consider than any profits which must also result. 
As was pointed out by  Senator Walsh  as recently as last- September,  Mr Anthony  in replying to a question without notice said in respect of this tremendous cash flow:  there are good and sound reasons for looking at a secondary tax or a resources tax in respect of oil that has already been produced in Australia and in respect of areas in which profits will be greatly increased because of government decisions'. 
The Labor Party believes, and until 2 July the Government believed, that these extraordinary profits created by government fiat- they bear no relation to the cost of production but are necessitated by the action of the OPEC cartel- should be shared between the community and the companies in an equitable manner. The 1 977-78 Budget gave windfall profits to producers. In 1977-78 Esso-BHP received $1 19m in windfall profits. This year it will receive $298m. As I said, there is an indication by Government that the proportion of oil which will attract $3 a barrel levy rather than the $10 a barrel levy will increase to 35 per cent of production next year, 50 per cent the year after and so on. It is negotiable up to 100 per cent. Despite that tremendous cash flow, for some reason on 2 July the Government abandoned any attempt to recover part of those extraordinary profits. 
The Labor Party does have a constructive alternative to this approach by the Government. What we would have done, of course, was gradually move to world parity within an overall energy policy. That opportunity has now passed. We would have levied a resources tax on extraordinary profits. In respect of the Esso-BHP field, I fear that that opportunity has probably passed also. When we present our Budget in a couple of years' time it will unfortunately be too late in that the production from those fields will by then be declining. The years in which to levy a resources tax on the production from that particular basin are 1978 to 1981. 
Many people do not understand or are fearful of the notion of a resources tax but, of course, such a tax applies only when the profits are excessive. It applies in a clearly understood sense- in the sense that they represent a rate of return on funds employed in excess of the rate required to attract funds to an industry or project in question. With regard to oil we would probably have calculated a threshold rate separately for each project and then taxed the profits which remained after the deduction of the company income which corresponded to the return necessary to attract or to retain the investment in that project. Thus, by definition and certainly by consultation with the companies concerned- this Government appears to have lost that art if it ever possessed it- the levying of a resources tax has no adverse impact on decisions to explore, to produce or to invest, for it deliberately levied on those profits which remain only after we deduct the level necessary to attract investment to the project. 
This is not something which is taken out of the academic air or out of some ideological preoccupation. A study of the risk borne by companies engaged in oil exploration and development was conducted by BHP and that company presented the results of that study to the Industries Assistance Commission's inquiry into crude oil pricing. BHP concluded, and the IAC agreed more or less, that investors required an annual return 12 per centage points higher than the long term government bond rate in order to compensate them for the higher risks of investing in oil shares rather than in government bonds. On the basis of that submission the IAC suggested that a threshold rate of return of, say, 25 per cent may be reasonable for the petroleum industry. Those figures were on a before-company-tax basis. Expressed on an after-company-tax basis it is about 15 per cent. Using that basis of a threshold rate of return of 1 5 per cent after company tax, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table prepared by the Finance, Industries, Trade Development Group of the Legislative Research Service which shows the revenue raising potential of a resource tax applied to Gippsland crude oil, natural gas and liquid petroleum gas production. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="078232197809124_33_0.jpg"></graphic>

As mentioned earlier, an after-company-tax threshold rate of15 per cent has been used. However, because most large capital outlays associated with the project were incurred before 1976, and given the high profitability of the project, all capital outlays and past losses are likely to have been recouped (with interest) by 1978-79, the first year for which figures are given in the table. Consequently, the figures in column 7 are the same as in column 6. 
Columns 1 to 4, assessable receipts, are based on estimated crude oil and natural gas production figures supplied by industry sources, and on the crude oil pricing policy announced in the 1977-78 Budget. It is assumed that all the natural gas is sold at 32c per thousand cubic feet, whilst the parity and non-party prices for crude are assumed to be $ 13 and $2.33 per barrel respectively.* 
* Figures were supplied by industry sources. 
Pricing and production estimates were not available for LPG. Consequently, some very rough approximations had to be used. It was assumed that, on average, LPG annual production would be about1½ million tonnes, at an average price of around $100 per tonne. This would give an annual revenue from this source of around $ 1 50m. 
Column 5, deductible payments, consists of estimated current operating costs (excluding depreciation and interest), company income tax liability and capital outlays in the year incurred. It has been assumed, for ease of calculation, that the company income tax system is also levied on the basis of immediate expensing of capital outlays. A company tax rate of 46 per cent has been used. The cost figures have been privately confirmed by industry sources as providing 'reasonable estimates'. 
The sixth column (and, for reasons explained earlier, the seventh column) is simply the difference between columns 4 and 5. 
Columns 8 to 1 1 show estimated receipts from the resources tax levied at the rates of 40 per cent, 50 per cent, 60 per cent and 70 per cent respectively. All figures in the table are in 1977 prices. 
The table shows that at even the lowest conceivable rate of a 40 per cent resource tax on excess profits some $588m would be raised for the community revenue over the three years 1978 to 1981. Those moneys- almost $600m- would then be available for the vigorous investigation of alternative energy research and development so needed in Australia. I believe that this perfectly reasonable scheme of support for oil exploration and development is backed by the overwhelming majority of Australian public opinion. When one speaks to members of the community one realises that they can appreciate the difference between ordinary profit and excess profit. They recognise excess profit and they feel that there is no interference with the ordinary course of industry decision making in a government coming in and taking some of the cream which results from government decision. For some reason the imposition of this particular resources tax was abandoned by the Government on 2 July and the only reason in the absence of any technical Treasury reasons advanced by the Government- that has not been done- is simply that the Government is succumbing to political pressure from those industries which extract Australian natural energy resources. 
No other reason has been advanced, senator. 
There is a very bland, four paragraph statement by the Government of 2 July which gives no indication of any technical reason why a resources tax could be levied. The most that the statement does is to repeat what is a complete misunderstanding of a resources tax. It states that such a tax would discourage exploration and development decisions. By definition, as the Industries Assistance Commission accepted, the whole nature of a resources tax is such that the tax is levied only at such a rate and on excessive profits as would take into account what moneys are required to attract investment to the particular project under consideration. By definition, a resources tax can have no adverse effect on exploration, development or investment decisions. There was simply a refusal by the Government to do what ought to have been done- what I believe even an editorial in the  Sydney Morning Herald  indicated should be done- namely, to take an equitable share of the tremendous profits generated by the Government's own decisions, which profits bear no relationship whatsoever to ordinary market forces. 
In any case, I believe that the Australian people are beginning to see that this Government does not regard our natural energy resources as belonging to the community. In law our natural resources do belong to the community, as the mechanism of vesting legal title in the Crown shows. The Australian Labor Party strongly believes that these natural energy resources belong to the Australian people. We of the Labor Party will act on that belief. After generously rewarding business enterprise for taking risks in exploring and developing our community resources, the community should get the major benefit of the revenue flowing from these extraordinary profits. As consumers of dwindling energy commodities the community has had to bear extraordinary prices. We would bear them with a better grace if we knew that some of those profits were being returned to Consolidated Revenue for community purposes. For these reasons, I am pleased to support the Opposition in its opposition to this rebate of revenue which properly should go to Consolidated Revenue. 
Sitting suspended from 5.52 to 8 p.m. 
I will be speaking extremely briefly but relevantly to the motion for the first reading of the Pig Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill. I rise tonight to congratulate the industry in Tasmania which has adapted very well to the change from a skim milk based diet to a grain based diet in the production of pig meat. Honourable senators may know that feed costs account for about 75 per cent of production costs in the raising of pigs. Problems have been experienced in Tasmania, as they have right throughout the Australian industry, with the periodic rise in the cost of food and falls in pig prices which obviously drastically affect profitability. Nevertheless, the Tasmanian industry has fared well and is making good progress. 
The technology of pig meat production is at a pretty high level. The main problems relate to the alternative sources of energy and protein components needed in the diet to counter the price fluctuations to which I referred previously. The increase in herd sizes with fewer producers has also created some problems with housing and effluent disposal, but considerable progress is being made in overcoming these problems too. Part of the problem is getting housewives to purchase pig meat. In this respect, the program of the Pigmeat Promotion Advisory Committee, towards whose projects some of the levy money goes, has had an impact- particularly its promotion of the super porker concept, whereby a large carcass produces a much wider variety of cuts and so on. 
I must agree with those who say that the annual report of the Pigmeat Promotion Advisory Committee is not detailed enough. The industry in general and this Parliament, which is the authority that imposes the levy, ought to be given a far more detailed resume of the activities of that Committee. I will not go into that aspect any further. We look forward to a more detailed report next year. On the other hand, the report of the Pig Industry Research Committee for the year ended 30 June 1977 is commendable in its detail and its listing of projects funded. Here again one may be surprised, nevertheless, to find that the sorts of projects which are funded do not touch, for example, one of the major problems encountered by pig producers, namely, the fact that some 2 per cent of pigs slaughtered are rejected for human consumption because they suffer from poly-arthritis. Some $4,000 out of a $500,000 research budget was allocated to the solution of this particular and urgent problem. Although I am no expert, I would say that more funds should have been directed to poly-arthritis in pigs than to some of the more esoteric projects which have found favour with the authorities. 
Tasmania had 64,000 pigs of all ages and sexes on 31 March 1978. These included about 10,000 breeding sows. The numbers are currently fairly static. The main breeds are large white, berkshire and landrace. Most commercial production, of course, uses cross-breeding methods. The annual slaughter is about 96,000. So the levy in Tasmania will raise quite a deal of money.  Mr President,  I had wondered whether in fact we might not discuss this Bill cognately with une Departure Tax Bills which are to be brought on later. There is certainly no more final a departure as far as the pigs are concerned than the trip to the abattoirs. You may say that that would equate pigs to human beings and it probably would have been ruled out of order. However, a most interesting article appeared , in the Queensland  University News  for September 1978. It shows many similarities between the pig population and the human population. It may say something for our present society. 
I will quote from  Animal Farm  before I finish my remarks. This article refers to the fact that the sterile environment in the modern large-scale piggery is causing very antisocial behaviour. We have many instances of ear and tail biting and bullying. This anti-social behaviour unfortunately begins when pigs are only several weeks old after weaning. At best the biting habits produce some discomfort but at worst canibalism has been known with pigs being partly or wholly eaten by other pigs. One finds that this particular anti-social behaviour assumes violent dimensions when a pen of new pigs is sorting itself out into a hierarchy or pecking order. This is not widely known,  Mr President,  hence my bringing it to the attention of the Senate. The dominant pig attacks others, while the pigs at the bottom seem resigned to their lowly role. Both the top and the lower pigs in any pig population are resigned or happy with their roles and hence do not develop ulcers. 
The interesting thing emerging from this study is that middle order pigs are continually attacking each other and challenging each other's status and as a result they suffer severely from ulcers. That, of course, affects their market price and hence we have the report before us. 
I am talking about most of us who are just struggling to the top. The article stated:   . . the offending pigs vigorously thrust their snouts into the soft part of the belly of other pigs who were resting quietly on their sides. This thrusting continued until the resting pig moved and the new victim was chosen, 
This is sheer bullying. The culprits are large and small, male and female, and nothing sexual motivates these particular attacks. What results is what they call the 'skinny pig' syndrome which is the result of the ulcers resulting from this tussel for status within the piggery. We are told by the researcher,  Mrs Blackshaw 
While research is still far from complete, there is promise- 
These are ominous words, I would have thought-  of a surprisingly simple solution to the social problem, a wooden box in the otherwise open pig pen. 
To me the wooden box is ominously like a final solution. However it does seem to provide some solutions and gives some interest to the otherwise sterile environment. It is worth noting, as  Senator Harradine  suggested we ought, that there are similarities between pigs and humans. We will all be aware I am sure of the final paragraph of  Animal Farm  by George Orwell where he records the animals going back to look in the windows of what was Manor Farm and Animal Farm and back to Manor Farm looking at the pigs which had taken control of the destiny of the other animals on the farm. The Senate will recall that the liberators of the oppressed had become the oppressors again. The paragraph reads as follows: 
Twelve voices were shouting in anger, and they were ail alike. No question, now, what had happened to the faces of the pigs. The creatures outside looked from pig to man and from man to pig, and from pig to man again; but already it was impossible to say which was which. 
It is a frightening prospect which George Orwell brings before every reader of his splendid little book and I think that coupled with  Mrs Blackshaw  's research it should give us all cause for consideration. 
My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, follows an aspect of the question asked by  Senator Puplick  earlier. Is the Attorney-General aware of the widespread concern expressed by competent professional institutes concerning the Government's declining financial and philosophical commitment to the provision of legal aid for those without sufficient assets to engage a private legal practitioner? Is it a fact that the Australian Legal Aid Office very successfully confronted the old slogan 'guilty until proved wealthy'? Did the student mentioned in the previous question apply to the Sydney office ofthe ALAO for legal aid in the matter referred to? If so, with what success? Is it a fact that the Estimates reveal that 44 fewer legal officers will be employed by the ALAO this financial year than last year? 
by leave- I enter this debate because I entirely support the remarks made by  Senator Missen.  We are dealing with the very heart of the democratic process in this respect. No laws are to be made in secret and any reasonable citizen by diligent inquiry ought to be able to ascertain his legal position. Any commercial firm ought to be able to ascertain its legal position in respect of penal legislation or legislation which confers some sort of benefit or opportunity. In a purely professional capacity as an academic lawyer I was continually frustrated by the lack of current annual volumes of Commonwealth statutes and reasonably up to date consolidations with their helpful indexes and so on. It is one thing to say that the Acts are available in separate pamphlet form; it is much more helpful to have them in volumes properly indexed and presented. 
I am disturbed that the Joint Committee on Publications should make findings of fact that the publication schedule is as incoherent as the Committee's conclusions would indicate. It would seem that the administration is inadequate for the task, or- let us put the responsibility where it ought to lie- that ministerial pressure or direction has been inadequate. I hope that the Minister concerned can ensure that the funds which  Senator Missen  pointed out were allocated to the task are used in order to remedy an intolerable situation in this democratic State. 
I would like to be informed of the components that go into determining the price of imported stabilised crude petroleum oil. What are the components that enter into the price? I think, for example, of freight. What other components go into making up that price? 
I would like some indication from the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  if possible, as to whether the average freight rate assessment component is still used in the calculation which leads to the price for imported crude oil. If that is still the case, will the Minister take note of the comments of the Royal Commission into the Petroleum Industry which indicated at page 338 that the average freight rate assessment is in no sense equivalent to the long term charter rate which is the rate which bears closest resemblance to actual market conditions. AFRA- the average freight rate assessment- is an average of monthly rates from all sorts of sources, and there is no actual relationship to long term charter entered into by say the Shell Company six years ago- I am speaking hypothetically- at the bottom of the charter market. In other words, it could bring oil to Australia in vessels chartered, say, six years ago at a very low rate but claim as part of the component in the price of the landed crude the AFRA rate, the current monthly average rate of all charter rates throughout the world. I should like to have that matter attended to, if possible. 
Another problem in this area is in relation to transfer pricing. It is obviously in the interests of oil companies to move profits to havens where as little tax as possible is paid. That is a very businesslike mode of operation, lt means, of course, that a company which has several divisions throughout the world can get one division to charter a vessel at, say. $40,000 for a voyage- I am using purely hypothetical figuresand charge the Australian division of that company $80,000 as the freight component in getting the oil. A profit of $40,000 goes straight to the tax haven. These are the sorts of problems which need to be looked at when deciding on the validity of the freight component in the cost of imported crude oil. 
-The Opposition associates itself with the conclusions and the general tone of this report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on the priority of Crown debts. Honourable senators may know that the preferential treatment which traditionally was accorded the Crown in the recovery of debts had its origins in the common or customary law. It is an aspect of the royal prerogative which need not greatly concern us this evening. 
I would prefer to go on to the the modern justification for Crown priority in bankruptcy proceedings, or liquidation proceedings where a company is concerned. That modern justification is that where the assets of a person or firm are insufficient to meet the claims of all creditors the community's claims should take priority over the claims of individual persons or firms which have provided goods or services, including labour, to the person or company whose financial position has so drastically deteriorated. 
Of course, the equating of the community interest with those of government revenue which is implied in the giving of preference to the Crown in the distribution of what assets remain of a bankrupt or liquidated company is a trap into which I hope we will not fall in considering this report. In fact, one must seriously doubt whether the community is advantaged in any way by putting employees who are unable to recover payment for annual leave or even ordinary wages or ordinary unsecured creditors who have provided goods or services at the end of the queue, behind the Commissioner of Taxation who is seeking, for example, to obtain payas.youearn instalments notionally held by the employer or trying to recover one year's personal income tax in the case of a bankrupt. 
As I understand it, the amounts of revenue presently obtained by the insistence on Crown priority are miniscule. The priority might apply to tax debts in the region of $5m to $8m. Even that figure is highly speculative and is offset by the fact that under the scheme proposed in the report the Crown would still rank as an ordinary unsecured creditor and receive probably partial repayment of its debts in most insolvency administrations, alongside other creditors. More than that, the sums returned to the community via other creditors will increase revenue because of the reduction in bad debts. Further, under the scheme proposed in ther report there is an added incentive to proceed with liquidations promptly and for other creditors to pursue their interests very actively and therefore to recover greater sums. This would be a stimulus to other creditors, whereas at present ordinary creditors, once they learn that the Crown is a creditor of a bankrupt or a company in trouble, are dissuaded from pressing their case because they know that the Crown takes priority and probably will absorb any assets that are available from that bankrupt's meagre funds. 
The healthy commercial effect of reducing the Crown to the same status as other unsecured creditors in this respect was commented on by the Commercial Law Committee of the Law Council of Australia, which expressed the view that the reduction of the Crown to the same status as ordinary creditors would improve standards of commercial morality and observance of the law by corporations and their officers and this must flow from more vigilant protection by ordinary creditors of their legal rights. At the moment they are dissuaded from coming into the picture once they know that the Crown will take priority. 
This report of the Senate Standing Committee has been welcomed generally by all sides of the commercial and trading life of this nation. Certainly I am confident that it will be supported by employee organisations. I shall take a minute to explain why the latter is particularly so. Time and again on the bankruptcy of a person or the winding-up of an employer company sufficient funds have been found to pay only the group tax, the pay-as-you-earn instalments, due to the Commonwealth Crown. Quite commonly, all funds are absorbed in that payment. Families of employees have been left in extreme hardship because, as I said, that payment to the Crown of group tax has absorbed all available moneys. 
I shall give a couple of representative examples that are referred to in the report. It was reported by two very experienced liquidators that in the case of one employer- a large firm called Harry McEvoy Shoes Pty Ltd- employees were not paid the moneys due to them. One employee in particular, who had worked with the company for something like 30 years, lost his job on the winding-up of the company and received nothing; but the Crown got what was due to it. The other company which the liquidators recalled was R. G. Brooks and Sons Pty Ltd. This was a case where the Commissioner of Taxation absorbed all the moneys in hand and none of the employees received moneys due to them. Many of them had long service leave entitlements dating back 17 years. These cases are merely representative of many insolvency administrations. The proposal in the report is that the Crown should not take such priority as to disadvantage employees dependent on such assets as may be available in the winding-up of the firm. 
As I understand it, most State Companies Acts provide for priority for payment of wages up to a certain level to employees and even long service leave and workers compensation entitlements before the State Crown recovers its debts. I think that is generally true. But the Commonwealth Crown has taken the view until now that, in particular, pay-as-you-earn group tax ought to take priority over the commitments of the firm to its employees and certainly to unsecured creditors who have provided goods or services to the firm in question. It is to the Commonwealth Crown that this report is directed. In fact, one may say, and I think it is said in the report, that whilst the States have been reasonably co-operative over the years and tried to reach an amicable agreement with the Commonwealth, the Commonwealth has been remiss. Therefore, the Committee was driven to quite pointedly say to the Commonwealth: 'Do not hide behind the pretence of needing to engage in further Commonwealth-State dialogue. Good faith virtually has not been shown by the Commonwealth up till now in such dialogue. Do what has to be done '. 
The beneficial impact on employees is sufficient reason to endorse this report. One could add to the reasons for the adoption of the report the problems of complexity which are revealed in its analysis, the problems of delay, and the inhibiting effect which I already have pointed out of the Crown's priority over the vigorous action which might be expected otherwise from other creditors. A further problem is that where the Crown through the Commissioner of Taxation forbears from pressing its prior debt it creates an apparent liquidity in an employer which may be very misleading to other creditors. The Commissioner of Taxation is doing what he conceives to be the fair thing in extending credit to the firm or person in difficulty but, this extension, this grace, this forbearance is unknown to the employees and to other ordinary creditors of the person or firm concerned. Thus, an apparent good situation of liquidity is portrayable by that employer or debtor to the public, and that situation can be quite misleading. 
Another reason to support the proposal of the Committee is that, as is revealed in its report, receivers are put in quite a dilemma in trying to reconcile conflicting Commonwealth and State legislation in this matter, to which  Senator Wriedt  alluded, and this problem is so well outlined on page 38 of the report that really I can add nothing to it except to point to a letter forwarded by  Mr L.  B. Hunter, a very prominent Sydney chartered accountant, who makes a plea to the Committee to take account of the invidious position in which he was placed by the conflicting requirements apparently imposed on him by Commonwealth and State legislation. Such a conflict may or may not be resolved by litigation but litigation in itself involves considerable delay and, what is worse, very considerable expense which further depletes the assets which are available for creditors. My main point is that every employee throughout Australia could rest assured, if this report were acted upon by the Government, that in the event of his employer being unable to meet his debts, the employee's wages and salaries up to a moderate limit and then his workers compensation and leave entitlement will be met before the Crown comes in with its claims which, under the Committee 's proposal, are to rank with those of ordinary creditors. 
This is the first report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs which I have had the pleasure of perusing as a senator. It is of a remarkably high standard and my predecessors on the Committee and the officers who serviced it are to be congratulated both on their conclusions, which have found a ready response throughout the community, and for the professional way in which the proposal is argued. It is the Opposition's hope that the proposal finds favour with the Government in the very near future. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry recall his answer to  Senator Archer  last Wednesday concerning the disease free status of cattle in Tasmania in which the Minister indicated a lack of interest 'on the part of many of the people who are involved in government there at the present time'? Is it correct that the Tasmanian Agricultural Department constantly informs the Australian Bureau of Animal Health as to the disease status of the Tasmanian livestock industry? Will he acknowledge the successful efforts of the Tasmanian Agricultural Department, in conjunction with cattle producers, which has brought about a situation in which Tasmania is the State with the fewest cattle diseases? Is it in harmony with national policy that an individual State not obtain a declaration of disease free status to avoid a clear implication that mainland cattle are disease ridden, which would prejudice exports of livestock from the mainland? Finally, will the Minister withdraw his imputation against the Tasmanian Government and in particular against the conscientious officials of the Tasmanian Agricultural Department? 
The Minister representing the Treasurer will recall the social and industrial unrest midway through this year caused by the threat of increased taxation on subsidised housing provided for rural and mining workers and salary earners outside major metropolitan areas. I ask: What is the present status of any direction to the Commissioner of Taxation on this matter? Can the Minister indicate the stage at which the Government inquiry into this matter has reached? Can the decentralised rural and mining communities of Tasmania especially expect a favourable yet equitable Government decision in the near future? 
-My remarks will be very brief. I wish to refer to one aspect of the growth of the tax avoidance industry in recent times. As with any industry, the tax avoidance industry depends at least partly on advertising to attract new clients or users of its services. I want to look very briefly at the nature of that industry and the advertising which serves it. I am certainly not one of those who regard the tussle between the Treasury and tax avoiders as some sort of sporting contest. I have no hesitation in saying that tax avoidance poses a real threat to our society. I say so because I believe that it threatens that cohesion which can be sustained only if citizens believe that the burdens are shared equitably in the creating of the sort of society that we want. 
The greatest burden obviously is taxation, whether it be direct as with income tax or indirect as with sales tax. Fairness and equity both demand that those with like incomes or making like purchases should be treated alike when it comes to paying taxes, to contributing to consolidated revenue. Instead of that, what do we find? We find that promoters of tax avoidance schemes have the gall to advertise in the national Press. On the very day that a prominent national newspaper contained an article about further measures to block tax avoidance schemes it contained an advertisement which promoted such schemes. The Senate will excuse me if I do not name the newspaper but I do not want to give any more credence to this advertisement than is necessary. The main headline on the first page of this national newspaper reads: 'Howard's assault on tax avoidance game'. However, on page 3 of that newspaper we find an advertisement with the heading: 'Total tax wipeout'. The advertisement states that a particular publication: 
. has first details of a new tax plan which can totally wipe out income tax. 
It can be used by salaried executives, professionals, companies and almost any income situation. 
It is one of the neatest and safest tax plans we have seen. It is so good it may possibly outstrip the legendary Curran scheme. 
The advertisement goes on to state: 
This issue also shows: How to avoid sales tax on cars, et cetera . . . 
I said that the promoters had the gall to put that advertisement in the national Press, but it is more than gall or daring. I call it totally immoral. It is an outrage against public morality. It is against the peace, order and good government of Australia. I say that because in my view advertisements in the national media which are concerned with the proliferation of artificial schemes to avoid lawful contributions to revenue offend against the public interest in two senses. Firstly, they offend against it in the very obvious sense that revenue does not flow to government in the way it might reasonably be expected to flow as a result of laws passed by this Parliament, which is responsible to all Australian taxpayers. Perhaps we should coin a new phrase- that is, no representation without taxation because the situation is arising in which people take advantage of this Parliament and the democratic processes set up in this society but make no contribution whatsoever to sustaining the sort of government services that we provide from this Parliament. But, more than that, this activity offends against public morality in the sense to which I alluded earlier in that only a very small segment of the population can take advantage of these taxation avoidance schemes. The advertisement is pitched to salaried executives, professionals, companies and so on. People on ordinary salaries or wages from which income tax contributions are deducted by employers under the payasyouearn scheme normally do not have these sorts of opportunities open to them. I say that the ordinary wage and salary earners of Australia are becoming extremely disturbed and angry at the ways in which people who derive their income by other means are able to afford the right sort of advice and thereby avoid their social responsibilities. The ordinary wage and salary earner in Australia is made to look like a mug. I believe that no Australian will tolerate that status for very long, nor should he. 
I remember as a young boy watching my father make out his tax form every year- he normally did so on the dining room table- and worrying himself about the honesty with which he filled in that form. Obviously he was looking to protect the family as far as possible. I remember that he went through all the chemists bills and doctors bills for the previous year to make quite certain that he behaved in a fairly responsible way towards the revenue. Was he a mug? There is certainly no doubt what the answer of the promoters of these tax avoidance schemes would be to that question. They would say he was a mug. I would say that the great majority of Australians should not tolerate a situation in which they are made to contribute an unequal share to consolidated revenue whilst those who are able to afford the best possible advice from accountants and lawyers manage to avoid their social responsibilities. 
I do not want to talk tonight about tax avoidance in general. The point I want to make tonight is a rather more narrow one. I say that we should drive the promoters of these schemes underground where they belong. I would like the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  or the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)-  perhaps the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  who is in the chamber, will pass on my request- to examine ways in which the tax power, the broadcasting power or the interstate trade and commerce power of the Commonwealth might be used to prohibit this antisocial advertising. 
They will operate anyway. These sorts of promoters will find clients. I say that they should not use the national media in order to parade their anti-social intentions. In that sense the result will be that they will be driven underground. It is not my intention that they should operate at all. 
I would prefer the sort of spotlight that I am referring to than that given by an advertisement of page 3 of a newspaper which has a national circulation. The honourable senator would not be supporting the promotion of these schemes in the public media. If necessary, let it be an exercise in federalism. I cannot think of any State government that would refuse to assist in this area if required, but I would much prefer to see the Federal Government dealing with these schemes. I would like to see it use its inherent power to protect itself against internal subversion. I characterise these sorts of tax avoidance industry schemes as no less than a sort of internal subversion that is directed at the necessary revenues of government. The advertising and promoting of these subversive enterprises should be dealt with severely and promptly. I would like the Government to give some indication of possible action in this area. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I ask him to draw on his extensive brief on the relation of the Budget to the construction industry from which he has drawn today. Is he aware of the detailed analysis of the impact of the recent Federal Budget which was given national Press coverage yesterday and which was prepared by building industry economic consultants John Jackson and Associates? Has he had its conclusions drawn to his attention, namely, that only a massive rescue operation by State governments can now save the Australian building industry from a further contraction in activity imposed by the Federal Government and, further, that the cutback has been accentuated by a further swing in the pattern of Federal Government expenditure towards current consumption and away from long run infrastructure investment? If he is not aware of this report, does the Minister concede that his brief is inadequate and that his answers so far are ill informed? 

 -Mr Deputy President, I wish to address my remarks also to the marihuana question and to place on record my belief which is known in the Tasmanian community that the social and recreational use of small amounts of marihuana for personal use ought not to attract a criminal penalty. I should make it clear that I in no way advocate the use of marihuana. In fact, I would discourage its consumption as a matter of caution, even though the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare remarked that given the length of time cannabis has been in use, nothing has manifested itself in the community in the form of physical ill-health directly attributable to cannabis use. As a matter of caution, I certainly do not advocate that people should consume marihuana. 
I believe that the crux of the marihuana debate lies elsewhere than in the question of its adverse effect on health. This is the point that  Senator Puplick  made and with which I agree. I believe that the focus lies entirely in the civil liberties area. After all, we are talking about offences where a simple fact is pursued. Is the accused in possession of or using marihuana? The court is bound to ignore any effect on family, employment or society at large. There is no question of nuisance such as there is with the offence of being drunk and disorderly. Immediately one can perceive a striking difference between this offence and almost every other criminal offence. The repercussions on other people involved in almost every other crime such as theft and murder are specifically excluded from consideration. The law fastens on the offender as a solitary person engaging in a particular activity. There is no complainant seeking the protection of the law. This should immediately alert us to the fact that something unusual is going on. A person is being subjected to the police power of the state, with the possibility of incarceration and certainly the payment of a fine, without any claim being made by society that any other person is affected or even that the offender is affected. For example, there is nothing in the offence equivalent to a person being drunk and incapable of taking care of himself. The mere fact of possession or use by a person is enough to establish that an offence has been committed. 
I believe that we are confronted with a cultural phenomenon where society provides an elaborate mechanism for the supply of approved drugs. We can obtain alcohol at licensed premises. We can get tobacco at every shop. We can purchase analgesics at chemist shops. Society has an elaborate mechanism for the supply of approved drugs but turns savagely on the users of this nonapproved drug. By such medical criteria as exists, the list ought to be reversed. As  Senator Grimes  pointed out and as I think even  Senator Walters  pointed out, society certainly should turn savagely on the providers and promoters of alcohol, tobacco and analgesics rather than marihuana. 
You may know,  Mr President,  that I have made a personal protest on this point. I have given up the use of alcohol, which was my social and recreational drug, enjoyed in moderate amounts. However, people who use another drug, less devastating than alcohol in its individual and social consequences, can have their lives completely disrupted by a criminal conviction.  Mr President,  the first occasion on which I had to refuse a glass of wine with a meal was in your dining room when you entertained new senators. I had regretfully to say 'no' to the offer of wine from your own estate. 
Present penal laws are a cultural phenomenon and suspect that the lifestyle within an anti-social sub-culture imagined by many upholders of the present law to be associated invariably with the use of the drug is a major cultural reason behind the total prohibition mentality. I will make an obvious point about the creation of that subculture in a moment, although it has to be explained and emphasised, as it was in the report to which I am not really alluding, that all strata of society and all types of Australians have used this drug regularly. I think that the Senate Committee accepted the figure of 8 per cent for people who have tried the drug and 3 per cent for people who have used it regularly. But the image in the public mind is of the rebellious youth, contemptuous of society's mores, indulging in this activity. I believe that that image in the public mind is important and explanatory. As a person interested in the legal process and civil liberties, I repeat the words of Lord Justice Lawson in a recent English case, in which he said: 
The first thing to be said, and said very firmly indeed, is that Her Majesty's Courts are not dust bins into which the social services can sweep difficult members of the public. Still less should Her Majesty's judges use their sentencing powers to dispose of those who are socially inconvenient. If the courts become disposers of those who are socially inconvenient the road ahead would lead to the destruction of liberty. It should be clearly understood that Her Majesty's judges stand on that road barring the way. 
I agree entirely with the sentiments there expressed. In case honourable senators think I am speaking abstractly, I point out that it is remarkable how the detection and prosecution of this offence feeds the myth in the public mind that the persons who indulge in this use are all young people rebelling against society's mores. The statistics which I am going to quote, I believe, are a reproach to us all. As legislators we should be concerned to protect the poor and the defenceless in society. But those people who are most vulnerable are those against whom this law is enforced, as  Senator Puplick  pointed out. Those people who are more sophisticated in their clandestine enjoyment of this drug escape detection or, if not detection, certainly prosecution. 
Honourable senators can draw the appropriate conclusions from the following facts: In Tasmania in 1975-76, of 821 convictions for marihuana use 111 convictions were recorded against labourers and 288 convictions were recorded against unemployed persons. Over 50 per cent of the convictions were recorded against labourers and unemployed persons. This small segment of small society was vulnerable because of its lifestyle. It would be a brave man who would claim that 50 per cent of the users in Tasmania belonged to those two categories of persons. They were vulnerable; they were the ones detected; they were the ones prosecuted. 
I advert very briefly to the report of the Senate Committee. I am not dwelling on that report, because I do not think it goes far enough; but, as I understand it, the report recommends that penal criminal sanctions should be removed from the use or possession of small amounts of cannabis and that small monetary penalties, not in the nature of criminal sanctions, be applicable. I believe that that would go some of the way towards mitigating the harshness of the operation of the present system, under which untold damage can be done to the career prospects and social life of a person stigmatised with a criminal conviction. Even the prospect of a criminial conviction can be disruptive of a career, particularly when an employer suspends an employee, as most often occurs in the Public Service or education areas, until the matter is determined in court; to say nothing of the adverse personal effect of the anxiety generated by the prospect of criminal conviction. I hold a personal view, and it is a personal view not shared by my party in Tasmania, that this report does not go nearly far enough. My main objection and my main fear is that this type of proposal leaves the trade, the supply of cannabis, in the hands of the same unscrupulous traders as at present. It leaves the moderate social user in jeopardy. It creates the very situation which society fears. In its submission to the Select Committee on Victimless Crime in Tasmania, the Catholic Diocesan Pastoral Counciland I emphasise that that Council did not endorse decriminalisation of mariuhuana- nevertheless submitted: 
We are particularly concerned about the development of sub-cultures associated with the use of alcohol and drugs that seem to lead to alienation from families and the general life of the community. It seems to us that it is in such subcultures that the progressive theory of drug use is most likely to operate and it is in them that those trafficking in drugs can most readily encourage such a progression. 
Very succinctly, that sums up my fears in this respect. Our youth, and increasingly our young adults, are being forced to deal in a criminal subculture. All the lessons of the total prohibition era in the United States seem to have been unlearned. 
Who benefits from the present situation? The answer is obvious. It is the criminals. At $400 a lb for marihuana, the distribution of this drug is highly profitable and provides funds for the more sinister and nefarious activities of these criminals. Society ensures the liquidity of their operations. Who suffers in this situation? It is the user. He or she is exposed to unscrupulous traders who have an all too evident interest in greater profits and in leading the user to the use of truly dangerous drugs, deadly and inimical to the user's health and well being. One often finds that when marihuana supplies decrease in a particular area, for example, in the north-west coast of Tasmania, simultaneously heroin becomes available. That is the technique these distributors use, and of course the users of marihuana are locked into that criminal sub-culture and are easy prey. That is the danger, and it is my fear. 
I put forward an idea to which I am not finally attached but which I believe ought to be considered, namely, that the State should be the only authorised processor and dealer in marihuana- dried-leaf cannabis- marihuana of a definite potency and purity. The State would probably grant a monopoly licence to a statutory corporation. In other words, distribution of the drug should not be in the hands of either unscrupulous criminals or private traders, as presently is the case with alcohol and tobacco. This would take marihuana trafficking out of the hands of the criminal element and allow the community to establish its effects rationally in a Western industrialised society. I admit that certain offences would have to be created and ought to be policed. These would be unlicensed cultivation, unlicensed trafficking, and use of a motor vehicle or industrial machinery while under the influence, the latter being the equivalent of using such machinery or driving such a vehicle under the influence of alcohol. 
That is the proposal I put forward. I believe that the gains to society, even in adopting the more limited approach of merely taking away criminal penalties for the use and enjoyment of moderate amounts of marihuana, would bring about considerable gains for the reasons I have outlined. But even more is involved, and in this I agree once again with  Senator Puplick.  I believe that the comprehensive moral value of tolerance needs to be fostered in our society. To quote again from the Catholic Diocesan Pastoral Council submission: 
Law must keep close to the moral sense of the community and the moral sense of the community must inspire law. This is not repressive of minority opinion because in a civilised and Christian community tolerance of differing moral viewpoints and practices will be part of that general moral sense. 
I consider that this is also a political value of high importance in our sort of democracy. Representative democracy does not exist only where the majority makes laws for the time being. That is part of it, but that can lead to authoritarian rule. Representative democracy exists where the majority for the time being makes the laws but tolerates the advocacy of different points of view and the living of different life styles which do not involve violence. I think that the marihuana case is really a touchstone of democratic values. 
I agree. That is why I have said that the driving of a motor vehicle or the use of industrial machinery whilst under the influence ought to be an offence. 
I agree that that is extremely important. I am in entire agreement. I believe that in our reaction to the social use of small amounts of marihuana by Australians we have one of the indicators of the health of our democracy. I hope that all honourable senators will accept that that is my concern. I believe it is not inimical to the general health of the community. I believe that my suggestion of taking the users of marihuana out of the criminal subculture, in which they are led at times to the use of other drugs, will actually lessen drug dependence within Australia. In any case I wanted to put that on record as a contribution particularly to the drug debate in Tasmania which will be stimulated by the tabling of the select committee's report- according to  Senator Harradine  it was tabled today- which I have not had an opportunity to peruse. The mandate of that committee was to monitor community opinion within Tasmania. I regard my contribution tonight as a help to the formation of a rational debate within Tasmania. I hope it leads to some sort of just conclusion. 
Is the Minister for Administrative Services aware of the very costly change of plaques on a Federal Government building in Hoban indicating that it is now to be known as the Commonwealth Government Centre rather than the Australian Government Centre? Is this step being repeated throughout Australia? If so, what is the estimated cost of this Australia-wide conversion process? Why and when did the Government take this decision to use scarce tax dollars to expunge the title 'Australian Government ' from its buildings? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Science who will be aware of the recommendations of the Australian meat survey mission to the Middle East some three months ago. Amongst those recommendations is one that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation should give priority to research into ways and means of overcoming claimed taste differences between Australian sheep meat and other sheep meat available to consumers in the Middle East and Iran. Has the Minister informed himself on whether the CSIRO has undertaken such a research program as a matter of urgency? If he has, can he inform the Senate of the state of the project? If he has not informed himself, or if the CSIRO has not commenced such a study, will the Minister ensure the speedy implementation of this aspect of the mission's report in order to help the Australian sheep industry? 
I rise a little out of order in this debate in the sense that perhaps my colleague  Senator Button  ought to have spoken first on behalf of the Opposition. He graciously deferred to me because I have another engagement later.  Senator Button  will indicate in more comprehensive terms than I that the Opposition supports this measure. I wish to direct my remarks to those aspects of the reorganisation of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation which have to do with creating or aiding innovation in Australian industries. This principal function of the Organisation is set out in clause 6, which contains proposed new section 9. The Parliament will require the Organisation to carry out scientific research for any of the following purposes: To assist Australian industry; to further the interests of the Australian community; or to contribute to the achievement of Australian national objectives. 
I see these required functions of the Organisation as interrelated. It must be an Australian national objective, it must be in the interests of the Australian community, that Australian industry be assisted by the research and development efforts of the CSIRO. The sad fact is that there is really nowhere else for Australian industry to go. The contribution of Australian industry is appallingly low in the field of research and development. In fact I believe that the situation is one of great danger to our future as a trading nation. This is particularly so in relation to the manufacturing sector where our major post-war development has been based on imported technology relating to process or product technology. This manufacturing strategy is based, as is well known, on import replacement and guaranteed by various import controls and tariffs. But, of course, many of the countries from which we derived this imported technology, or other countries which have adopted and adapted such technology, can offer equivalent products to Australian consumers at much lower prices than Australian industry can produce them, or can put these products on markets to which we would like to export. We cannot rely on imported technology to bring about a resurgence of Australian manufacturing activity. In fact, I adopt the words of  Sir Ian  McLennan in his presidential address to the Australian Academy of Technological Sciences in 1 977 when he said: 
A high level of indigenous product and /or process technology must be preserved by continued research and development to ensure that a competitive advantage is maintained. 
That was after he referred to the fact that we must move away from reliance on imported technology as the salvation for Australian industry. He advocated a progressive development in this country of specialised high technology products capable of finding a place in world markets. But the fact is, as the Australian Science and Technology Council's report for 1977-78 stated, industrial research and development in Australia has decreased substantially and is still decreasing, due in large part to inadequate government incentives. 
I am not seeking in any way to score political points. That last cause for declining research and development in Australian industry has been put forward by perhaps the most illustrious panel of persons available in Australia to consider this problem. I prefer to emphasise another major reason why Australian industry has not been able to undertake the necessary research and development effort. The fact is that half our manufacturing value is produced by some 200 large firms. The remainder is produced by about 30,000 small enterprises. Obviously on the whole they are too small to mount any viable research and development effort. I guess that is the major reason why we need to turn to government sponsored research institutions to have any hope of injecting into Australian manufacturing industry that innovative technology required, in  Sir Ian  McLennan 's view for our survival as a trading nation in any manufactured goods. 
What does this Bill propose? The Bill deals with the CSIRO 's role in encouraging or facilitating the application of the results of its research. I am not utterly convinced that the CSIRO should be the only body to have access to its research results for the purpose of determining whether those results are or should be made available for application in industry. Rather I am inclined to the view- I would like the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  to remark on this matter- that an Australian research and development corporation should be established which had access to promising discoveries made in government laboratories, such as the CSIRO or defence laboratories, and which also had access to tertiary education establishment laboratories and research establishments as well as to industrial research and development, provided industry is prepared to offer to the corporation a part interest in the discovery in return for development funds. Such an Australian research and development corporation, based on the United Kingdom model, which has succeeded beyond anyone's dreams, could advance money where necessary to finance the development and demonstration phases to bring inventions to a commercially viable state. 
I draw the Minister's attention to the remarks in this regard of the Australian Science and Technology Council in its annual report, particularly to its conclusion. It stated that an Australian research and development council, properly operating, would indeed facilitate rather than discourage existing and future contacts between the CSIRO and industry. 
It is to that specific relationship that I now turn. The Australian Parliament this year is voting $ Ulm to the CSIRO; in fact, the amount is a little more than that. Therefore it is well within our competence to examine the way in which, if at all, the CSIRO is satisfactorily discharging its mandate to ensure that Australian industry is provided with the most innovative technology available. Australian industry must get a discernible return out of the CSIRO 's proposed expenditure of $141,244,000. I do not say that the CSIRO should get a return. In fact, I note in the estimates that it is expected to obtain only some $42,000 from patents and licence fees. But Australian industry must get a discernible return from this expenditure of a very large amount of money. As I now see it, a duty is in fact placed on the CSIRO by clause 6 of the Bill that is being discussed to ensure that transfer of its research to Australian industry. 
I woul like to know exactly what mechanisms exist within the CSIRO to ensure that this responsibility is discharged. Procedures should be devised and implemented from the initiating scientists level right through to the chiefs of institutes level to ensure that the commercial viability of any research is properly assessed. When I say that the commercial viability needs to be assessed I am not so barbaric as to say that this should be the motivating force in every project undertaken by the CSIRO; far from it. It has a very valid role purely as a scientific establishment. But once a research project comes to a conclusion Australian industry and, in fact, the Australian community needs to be assured that mechanisms exist for the proper assessment of the commercial viability or possibilities of that particular discovery or improvement in technology. 
There is something disquieting in the fact that the independent inquiry into the CSIRO found that out of 100 cases of patented research results an estimated 48 failed to attract any industry interest and a further 34 did not reach the marketing stage. The independent inquiry remarked: 
We are concerned therefore that the CSIRO may be offering too many research results to industry which are commercially not viable. 
Conversely, and just as worrying, there is no published mechanism to enable challenge of the decisions taken presently at the chiefs level not to apply for a patent. 
There appears to be no published mechanism to enable a challenge to be made to decisions by chiefs not to proceed to patent a particular research result. Perhaps these are further reasons for the Minister to consider very seriously the formation of the Australian research and development corporation as envisaged by ASTEC. Perhaps it, having more entrepreneurial skills, could make the necessary assessment. Even if that is not gone ahead with, I would like to hear from the Minister as to whether the proposal that a sixth institute be formed and be called the scientific services institute is being actively taken up and prepared for and exactly what this sixth institute might have to contribute in this regard. 
This transfer of results to industry may involve some development work within the CSIRO. I note that there has been a slight increase in the moneys appropriated. Some $345,000 is being set aside for this task of developing processes and products to potential application stage within industry. But I must say after sitting in on several Estimates committee meetings- I am thinking in particular of the estimates for the Atomic Energy Commission- that I have noted the effect of the numerical ceiling having a particular impact on organisations carrying on research and development at the skilled tradesman or technician level. These levels appear to be more mobile and when an organisation loses a member from that area that person is not replaced in order to keep within the numerical ceilings. I am wondering whether the CSIRO, in voting more money to the development aspects of its work will in fact find that its workshops- its technician level- are able to cope with this particular aspect of its work, given the ceilings that have been applied generally throughout the matters under Commonwealth jurisdiction. I notice that approximately a quarter of a million dollars is allocated to contract such development work to private industry. I think that this will be a useful stimulus to industry. 
The major transfer of research into the industrial life of Australia is made by simple publication which makes the research available for free use within Australian industry. I guess that this is the best way for such research to become integrated into our commercial and trading life. There will be occasions where the patenting of an invention and its licensing will be essential if CSIRO is to fulfil its charter. Occasions could arise where the free publication of a particular process could lead to such a poor implementation of the development that the process would be brought into disrepute. On several occasions CSIRO has had to license a particular manufacturer undertaking the use of a discovery in order to ensure quality control in its implementing. Siroset is perhaps the best example of that. A more obvious example is where it may be necessary to encourage a firm to undertake expenditure necessary to take research through to the commercial stage. An exclusive licence could be granted to an industrial concern so that it knows others are not able to compete within a certain period. Repco Ltd spent half a million dollars taking CSIRO 's new method of manufacturing spun yarns- the self-twist spinner. For that expenditure Repco required an exclusive licence. That is a very sensible arrangement. 
It is essential that CSIRO as far as possible make its research available through free publication rather than by patenting or licensing arrangements. It certainly should not regard these arrangements in any sense as a revenue raising device. I do not believe that it does. The mechanism should be used only where, in the judgment of CSIRO, it is in the best interests of Australian industry. I further commend the present practice of CSIRO whereby licences invariably are first offered to Australian firms, and overseas firms, when they are licensed, are licensed only on the understanding that CSIRO retains the right to licence an Australian firm to manufacture or use the process either within Australia or in seeking its own export markets. I think that this particular mode of operation by CSIRO is to be encouraged. It is nothing to be embarrassed about. In fact it will be essential if it is to fulfil its charter under the duties the Parliament lays on it now in proposed new section 9 of the Bill. 
I turn finally to what I believe is the most challenging power to be conferred on CSIRO by the Bill when it becomes operative. I refer to proposed new section 9AA (b) which enables CSIRO to join in the formation of a partnership or company for the purpose of the commercial development of a discovery, invention or improvement which is the property of the organisation. It is thought that such a venture is not presently able to be undertaken by CSIRO. This joint partnership consortium venture type proposal is undertaken by some tertiary education institutions in Australia, The Western Australian Institute of Technology, I believe, has such an organisation, as does the University of New South Wales. I am pleased to see that CSIRO is to be free to undertake such joint partnerships or to take part in the formation of a joint company to enable it to supervise the research in its application to Australian industry. 
In my maiden speech I applauded the Government 's decision to form a joint development and marketing partnership with two private firms to exploit InterScan, the aircraft landing system which is known to honourable senators, and which was developed in the Radiophysics Division of CSIRO. I said then that this type of cooperation should be the pattern of the future. I realise that the consortium dealing with this InterScan proposal has been set up by the Department of Productivity. I would be interested to hear from the Minister whether that was done merely because no mechanism was then available to CSIRO to participate and what use he might expect CSIRO to be making of this particular provision. Whilst the use of that provision is subject to ministerial direction- as outlined in proposed new section 13- the contents of that directive have to be published in the annual report of CSIRO in future. I am wondering whether the Minister will indicate for the help of honourable senators and for the interest of the Australian community whether such guidelines have been formulated in anticipation of the Bill coming into operation and, if so, whether such guidelines might be made available to the Senate even before the publication of CSIRO 's report so that we might understand in what context CSIRO is expected to operate in this regard. I hasten to come to the end of my remarks. Because of the excellence of its research and the high regard in which it is held internationally I believe Australians have cause for very great pride in CSIRO. I believe that this Bill guarantees a similar future for this splendid organisation. 
I present the following petition from 1 33 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the provision of payments for induced abortion through items of the Medical Benefits Schedule is an unacceptable endorsement of abortion which has now reached the levels of a national tragedy with at least 60,000 unborn babies being killed in 1977. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will so amend the Medical Benefits Schedule as to preclude the payment of any benefit for induced abortion, except one performed when a mother's life is endangered. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
ACT Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 
I present the following petition from 95 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth:- 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 1 6 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to:- 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present the following petition from 8 1 3 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth:- 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to:- 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
ACT Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 
I oppose the motion for disallowance for two principal reasons. The first is the dangerous and unpredictable consequences which will flow from the disallowance- consequences of uncertain duration and consequences permitting the establishment of private abortion clinics. The second principal reason why I shall be opposing the motion is that I believe that the organisation of public health facilities in the Australian Capital Territory is a matter not for this chamber but for the Capital Territory Health Commission acting under its Ordinance, as sanctioned by this Parliament. I will elaborate on my understanding of the Ordinance a little later. Before doing so I wish to emphasise, along with  Senator Hamer,  that we are not considering any expansion or change of the legal criteria governing the provision of an abortion. However, I feel that it is probably necessary, as this is the first occasion on which I have spoken in the chamber on this topic, to indicate to honourable senators my personal view simply as a matter of honesty and then to put that matter to one side. My own view is that abortion does involve the destruction of an immature human life. That is my conclusion as to the question of fact. Then arises the question of what might justify the destruction of that life. Here I maintain that the bounds of natural morality, the natural human right to proportionate self-defence, ought not to be exceeded; that is, if the life of the woman who is pregnant is threatened by the continuation of her pregnancy, she is entitled as a matter of natural law to the abortion. Very briefly they are my views. I do not intend to elaborate on them here but I put them to the Senate to make clear my personal position. 
The debate today concerns the disallowance of an ordinance. We are told that the purpose of the disallowance motion is somehow to bring about a situation in which all of the recommendations of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly may be implemented. I intend to address my arguments solely to that aspect. My contention is that this Ordinance does not require or demand but does enable the major recommendations of the Legislative Assembly to be carried into effect by the appropriate authorities. No further ordinance is required. If we want to achieve the situation in which that democratically elected and representative Assembly's recommendations may be implemented, there are various means by which that can be done. To my mind the Ordinance in no way prevents the recommendations from being carried out. I am conscious of the time but I think that at this stage I should read that sub-section of the Ordinance which will go if the disallowance motion is carried. It states: 
A registered medical practitioner shall not carry out treatment for the termination of a pregnancy otherwise than at a hospital conducted by the Capital Territory Health Commission. 
This sub-section has two aspects. Firstly, it prohibits the termination of a pregnancy by a registered medical practitioner otherwise than at a hospital conducted by the Health Commission. Clearly abortions carried out in private clinics are thereby prohibited. Conversely, it allows for termination of a pregnancy by a registered medical practitioner at a hospital conducted by the Health Commission. This is precisely the situation sought to be achieved by the Legislative Assembly. The Ordinance is in harmony with its recommendations. Let me explain. 
No. One starts with the basic common law, which is that it is lawful for a registered medical practitioner to carry out an abortion anywhere at any time where he honestly believes on reasonable grounds that it is necessary to preserve the life of the mother or her health, whether it be mental or physical. That is lawful. Thus, it is lawful and requires no ordinance for the Health Commission to provide abortion facilities in public hospitals conducted under its auspices. The designating of facilities - for example, the setting aside of some portion of a building and calling it a clinic- the provision of certain procedures and the provision of counselling can all be provided for by the Health Commission. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was inviting honourable senators to oppose the disallowance motion on either of two grounds which may appeal to them. Firstly, I was speaking of the dangerous, unpredictable consequences which will flow from the disallowance, consequences of uncertain duration and consequences permitting the establishment of private abortion clinics. Secondly, I was putting forward as a reason for voting against the disallowance motion the fact that I believe the organisation of public health facilities in the Australian Capital Territory is a matter not for this chamber but for the Capital Territory Health Commission acting under its Ordinance as sanctioned by this Parliament. My contention was that the Ordinance enables the major recommendations of the Legislative Assembly to be carried out. No further ordinance is required. Action by various authorities is required. I was demonstrating that it is lawful and requires no ordinance for the Health Commission in the Capital Territory to provide abortion facilities in public hospitals conducted under its auspices, and manifestly it does. 
Since 1 January 1977 during the currency of the Ordinances, in terms with which we are now familiar, 233 abortions have been carried out in public hospital facilities in the Capital Territory. Those have been lawful abortions. The designating of facilities- for example, the setting aside of some portion of the building as a clinic in which counselling and termination of pregnancies may take place in the first 1 1 weeks of pregnancyand the provision of in-patient care for women between the 11th and 20th week of pregnancy are matters for the Capital Territory Health Commission acting under its own Ordinance. They can be done lawfully if this Ordinance stands. I contend that both facilities would be at a hospital. Anyone who has languished in a hospital knows that they are full of various clinics. There is no magic in the term. After all, the recommendation of the Australian Capital Territory Assembly is that the clinic be within the grounds of the hospital. In fact, that is necessary if recommendation No. 7, namely, that there be provision for emergency treatment of a woman in case of some distress or for some medical cause during the termination procedure in the clinic, is to be carried into effect. 
It is clear that both day care and in-patient facilities can be made available at a hospital as permitted by the Ordinance. I contend, and I invite honourable senators to agree with me, that the Health Commission is the proper forum for making those decisions within the usual constraints of its Ordinance. The Health Commission cannot escape its decision-making role. It cannot deny its political character. It is for the Health Commission to provide for the implementation of those recommended procedures if it considers them appropriate, given its other expenditure commitments.  Senator Hamer  was nearly right on the point when he indicated that perhaps citizens in the Australian Capital Territory could raise funds for such a clinic. He was nearly right in the sense that it is a matter for the Australian Capital Territory people. Of course, the Commission may be subjected to ministerial direction, although I am not aware of an explicit one. But that would be in accordance with the Ordinance governing the Commission as promulgated by this Parliament. 
The Health Commission must wage its own battles. Is there any evidence that it is? Is there any evidence that the three members of the Commission who are themselves members of the Legislative Assembly are pressing for the implementation of the Assembly's recommendations? If the Territory wants home rule, let the Assembly exercise its political skills. Do not let its members ask me to come to the national Parliament from Tasmania to decide on the public health facilities that can be lawfully provided by the Health Commission. I repeat that no ordinance is required concerning public facilities. Our role as legislators in this matter completely escapes me. I believe that this is recognised by the Legislative Assembly report. It makes no request for an ordinance to carry into effect its recommendations concerning the termination of pregnancies at public hospitals. But an ordinance is required to ban private abortion clinics. Otherwise, their operations are legal, given the basic common law position which I outlined earlier. That is the only ordinance requested by the Legislative Assembly, and that is what it has. 
The effect of disallowance would be to allow the basic common law to revive and to permit the carrying out of abortions anywhere in the Territory but, relevantly, in private abortion clinics conducted for commercial gain. I cannot support that proposition, and therefore will vote against the disallowance if it comes to a vote. I must also note the consequences of disallowance. They are entirely unpredictable in duration and in effect. Without the law, private abortion clinics may be established. Without a special Senate procedure, no ordinance which has as its consequence the banning of private abortion clinics may be introduced for six months, whether it is framed in identical terms or in some widely differing language. If it has the same consequence, it cannot be introduced for six months without a special Senate procedure. I emphasise that even with the special Senate procedure of recision there is no guarantee that a new ordinance will be introduced expeditiously. This is the terrible risk inherent in  Senator Rae  's contingent notice of motion of recision. He proposes recision, a procedure, by the way, requiring an absolute majority of 33 votes. He proposes that recision motion to give the Minister an opportunity to introduce a like ordinance.  Senator Rae  can do nothing by way of extracting a guarantee from the Government that that like ordinance will be introduced within six months, let alone within a week or before the Senate rises for Christmas. 
I agree that no guarantee is given that it will be introduced, even within a lifetime. I am an apprentice in this place but I regard this contingent notice of motion as breathtaking in its naivety. My guess would be that the Government is much more likely to allow the political blame for opening up the possibility of private abortion clinics to fall on the Senate or, more accurately, on those honourable senators who vote for the disallowance of the Ordinance. Why should the Government hasten to rescue from the political repercussions those honourable senators, particularly within its own Party, who have not supported the Ordinance? The Government will not rush in. It will allow us to sweat during the summer. Honourable senators can take my word for it. During the summer we will all be watching to see whether the Phillip Clinic to be conducted by Population Services International (Australia) Ltd is about to open. 
The consequences will fall on us or, more accurately, on those honourable senators who vote for disallowance if there is any suggestion that the clinic is to open. I believe that if it were clearly about to be opened the Minister would act. In the meantime, the Minister will act late in the autumn as the hero without depending on a Senate recision motion and do what everyone concedes must be done. He will do what  Senator Ryan,  the Legislative Assembly and almost all honourable senators to my knowledge believe must be done. He will then introduce an ordinance prohibiting the carrying out of abortions in private clinics. There is no guarantee that the possibility opened up by  Senator Rae's  recision motion will be acted on expeditiously.  Senator Rae's  motion gives no reason to support the disallowance. I believe that it is too dependent on matters outside our control in the Senate. If the recision revived the disallowed ordinance, it would be another matter. It does not. The ordinance is void and of no effect forever. In addition, the whole operation bears the appearance of the slightly ridiculous. In one hour we disallow the ordinance; in the next hour we recind the disallowance motion. 
I therefore conclude that the motion for disallowance should be rejected for two reasons. Firstly, its immediate consequence is that abortions may be performed in facilities conducted for private gain, which result neither the Legislative Assembly nor  Senator Ryan  desire. Secondly, its aim, somehow to force the Government to establish a public abortion clinic, not only is not achieved by the disallowance but further it misconceives our role in these matters of the organisation within the Capital Territory of that which is lawful. The political fight for the reorganisation of facilities and procedures within the public health system here should be conducted within the Legislative Assembly and via its representatives on the Health Commission acting within the scope and constraints of its ordinance. I see nothing in the ordinance that gives the Senate any sort of indication that it was intended to interfere in the Commission's relationship with those bodies which have part time commissioners- such as the Legislative Assembly which has three part time commissioners- on the Health Commission; nor are we meant to interfere with the relationship of the Commission to the government ofthe day. 
If the Territory wants home rule let us see the ACT constituted bodies act as politically mature bodies. Let us indicate in our debate our support for the institutions which are part of the ACT structure- the Assembly and the Commission. Let us encourage them to act without timidity, but let us not usurp their roles. Therefore if this matter proceeds to a vote I will vote against it and I ask other honourable senators also to vote against it. I still ask  Senator Ryan  to seek leave of the Senate to withdraw her motion. I believe that her motion initially was based on a misunderstanding of the role and relationship of the Minister to the Legislative Assembly, which misunderstanding was generated deliberately by the Minister in an answer to a question in March 1977. 
He attributed to the Assembly a capacity, a constitutional power, beyond its constituted limits. He called what might have turned out to be its recommendations its 'decisions' and gave an impression that its decisions would be simply transformed into the appropriate legislative form.  Senator Ryan,  I believe, and other citizens of the Territory were misled into thinking that conversion or transformation into an ordinance was required. As the recommendations were not transformed holus-bolus into an ordinance they thought that was the end of the matter. As I have demonstrated, that is not the end. There are other appropriate procedures by which the lawful provision of abortion facilities in public hospitals can be carried out. I believe that the fact that other procedures are available is conceded in the addendum to the motion which has been circulated in that it states, amongst other things, that one of the aims is to enable the Government to take such other administrative and legislative steps as are necessary. There is a recognition there that other proper avenues are available other than through this chamber where the provision of public facilities is to be decided. 
Before I resume my seat, I wish to add that I dissociate myself from those people who have sought to misrepresent  Senator Ryan's  aim or desire in this matter.  Her  aim has always been, to my knowledge, to resist the establishment of private abortion clinics in the Australian Capital Territory. I also deplore and dissociate myself from the hectoring and scornful tone of many of the submissions that we as parliamentarians have received and many of the letters which no doubt all honourable senators have received. I believe that simple courtesy and restraint in language would seem to be particularly appropriate in discussion of such matters. Nevertheless, I oppose the motion. 
I address my question to you,  Mr President.  In view of the recent decision in the Sankey case in which the High Court indicated that certain documents such as Cabinet minutes or communications between heads of departments would not automatically be immune from disclosure to the Court if public interest required it, could you make available to the Senate an opinion as to the impact of this decision on the ability of honourable senators to obtain such documents either by request within this chamber or in Estimates or other committees? Can you indicate where the assumptions and procedures of this chamber might be affected by the Sankey decision? Surely this democratically elected chamber should not have restrictions placed on it from which the High Court- that non-elected bench of justices- has managed to escape.  Mr President,  might you yourself assume the role of deciding whether a document is entitled to privilege or confidentiality if you are requested to give a ruling? 
I second the motion. As  Senator Rae  said, it is an entirely reasonable proposition that the whole of a department's proposed expenditure be scrutinised by the Estimates committee concerned. This recommendation is in no way designed to displace the function of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts but it would seem that in order to enable the Estimates committee to fulfil its proper role, a role which is conferred on it by the Senate, it should have available to it, concurrently for its scrutiny, the details relating to the Advance to the Minister for Finance. I emphasise that the recommendation came from a bipartisan Estimates committee. I take pleasure in seconding the motion. 
I second the motion as amended by  Senator Rae.  The proposed amendment is desirable and clarifies the situation. I express my pleasure that the Government has acceded to the motion in its new terms. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate notes with concern the lack of action by the Australian Government to relieve Australian citizens of the disadvantages of dual nationality, particularly as experienced in visiting former homelands, and urges the Government speedily to implement the recommendations contained in the report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on dual nationality, tabled in the Senate on 14 October 1976. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that many traders and employees throughout Australia are disadvantaged during an insolvency of a debtoremployer by the Crown's taking priority for the payment of its debts such as pay-as-you-earn tax instalments? Can the Attorney-General give an indication of when the Government intends to announce any decision on the Senate Committee report on priority of Crown debts in bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings? May we expect some response before we rise for the summer recess? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It follows a line of questioning initiated by  Senator Missen  and taken up by  Senator Wriedt  yesterday. Is the Government seriously considering the imposition of a retail tax or value added tax on ordinary food and clothing throughout Australia? I ask  Senator Carrick  whether he has noted this comment of the Treasurer as reported in the  Laurie Oakes Report  of 4 October: 
One of the obvious disadvantages of it - 
That is, the retail taxis  that it can fall more severely on low income earners, certainly in those areas where the effective choice is in theory only. You don't really have an option about buying clothing, do you? 
Is it a fact that anticipated problems have been so significant as to cause the national governments of Japan, the United States and Switzerland to reject proposals for broad based taxing of consumption? Does the Minister agree that to impose such a tax within Australia at the present moment would be inflationary and inequitable in its impact on pensioners and low income earners? 
-This Bill carries into legislative form the Federal Government 's part in a tripartite agreement between it, the Tasmanian Government and the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd. It requires the taxpayers of Australia to underwrite operating losses of the copper mining venture at Queenstown up to the end of 1980 and up to a limit of $3. 8m. It is fair enough to ask why this massive subsidy should be made available to a venture which depends upon buoyant world prices for a commodity which it extracts, admittedly, from fairly low grade ore, though in great quantities. 
One answer could be that it is a very good risk indeed. The trend in copper prices, as  Senator Archer  pointed out, is favourable. Prices are improving, so much so that the  chairman  of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd,  Mr A.  C. Copeman, was able to tell the annual general meeting in Sydney- this was reported on 29 September 1978-that the Mount Lyell company was very close to its cash break even point at present copper prices and mine costs. So it would seem that very little of the promised funding from either the Federal or the Tasmanian Treasuries will be required. If it is required there is every probability that repayments will commence quite quickly from the cash flow generated by improved prices. 
Whilst that particular justification for making the subsidy available is a possible factor, and no doubt was a factor in the Government coining to its decision, I believe it does less than justice to those in government who have taken this decision in the face of considerable political pressures from within the joint Party room, in the face of the Industrial Assistance Commission report which was quite firm in its conclusion that aid should be refused and in the absence of any sort of regional development policy to cope with such a situation as this. I believe that in the face of all those difficulties the Federal Government has come to a decision which must be commended. What moved governments was the realisation that what was at stake here was the whole hardworking community of Queenstown and associated industries around the west and north west coast of Tasmania. One thinks of the port of Burnie, of the North- West Acid plant, and of Tioxide. One could go on. Inter-relations are well known to all Tasmanians in this chamber and no doubt to others who are as interested. In other words, the impact could not be confined to one town. The devastation that would have been wreaked by the closure of this mine would have been Tasmania-wide with particular impact in the west and north-west region, which is perhaps the most important region in Tasmania. That situation could not be tolerated. I wish to commend the Governments involved for preventing the intolerable. 
Having said all that I mention very briefly two matters which have caused me some disquiet in considering the Mount Lyell situation. I believe the matters that I will advert to are of somewhat wider concern than simply the situation at Queenstown. To what extent should people's lives and livelihood be jeopardised by a reorganisation of the methods by which a parent company deals with its subsidiaries or other firms in which it is an influential shareholder? Honourable senators will know that Consolidated Gold Fields Australia Ltd holds a controlling interest in Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd. On 14 June 1975, this stood at about 56 per cent. On that day, Queenstown Investments was formed. During the year, virtually the entire Mount Lyell shareholding in an adjacent tin producer, Renison Ltd- another West Coast mine- was transferred to Queenstown Investments. Some people say that this provided many millions of dollars to Mount Lyell to enable it to continue to operate. But I put another interpretation on the matter. The Mount Lyell directors had very prudently acquired a 44 per cent holding in Renison Ltd. This holding was stripped from that company via Queenstown Investments in a way which enabled Consolidated Gold Fields Australia Ltd to acquire a controlling interest- 51 per cent- in that very profitable Renison Ltd. How profitable is that company? One has only to look at the  Age  of 28 September to see that the directors were able to state that Renison was paying a 50c final dividend on its 50c shares following a huge boost in profit for the second year running. Exceptionally buoyant tin prices led directors of that Tasmanian tin mining company to report a 68 per cent earnings jump to a record $ 1 7.9m in the year to 30 June. 
The latest profit compared with $ 10.7m a year earlier, which itself was three times the 1975-76 result. I agree that these profits were generated by a tremendous upsurge in tin prices. The point I am making is that at the end of the day Renison dividends were not directly available to the Mount Lyell company as they otherwise would have been to help it through its critical period. Would this help have been sufficient? I cannot say. What can be said is that without this assistance Consolidated Gold Fields is able to point to an isolated company stripped of its earning potential from profitable investments in ventures other than copper mines and to say: 'We cannot bear continued losses. We decide to close it down'. This faces governments and communities with an intolerable situation. Further, no call was made on shareholders of Mount Lyell on the partly paid shares which formed 45 per cent of the capital of almost 30 million shares. They are only paid to 10c and carry a liability of 75c, comprising 15c capital and 60c premium. No call was made. As I said, stripped of the very profitable earning potential from Renison tin, Mount Lyell was left isolated and Consolidated Gold Fields took the decision that it ought to close down the Mount Lyell mine with all the consequences which Senators Wriedt and Archer have adverted to- an increase in unemployment in Tasmania of 2,000 people, representing an increase of 16 per cent, and the devastation of a region. This must be regarded as reprehensible. 
In my maiden speech, I made this point and I restate it with as much conviction as I did then: This Parliament expressly requires the Industries Assistance Commission to have regard to the regional, economic and social consequences- especially the unemployment consequences- of any report it hands down. No private corporation ought to be able to do less when making a decision as to the best use of shareholders funds. This chamber should be investigating ways of making that social dimension an operative part of directors' obligations'. Since I spoke on this subject, I have been pleased to discover a White Paper published by the United Kingdom Government in July this year which goes some of the way in this regard. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  certain draft clauses of a proposed United Kingdom Companies Act which have the effect of introducing a duty on directors to have regard to the interests of employees as well as shareholders in carrying out their functions. It also reverses the rule in the Park v.  Daily News  case so that it will be lawful for a company to make provision for employees and former employees when closing down the whole or any part of its business. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  draft clauses 46 and 64. 
Leave granted. 

 The clauses read as follows- 46.- ( 1 ) The matters to which the directors of a company are to have regard in the performance of their functions shall include the interests of the company's employees generally, as well as the interests of its members. 
Where in any proceedings it falls to a court to determine whether a director of a company is in breach of his duty to have regard, in the performance of his functions, to the interests of the company's members, the court shall take into account the fact that the director is also required to comply with the duty imposed by this section. 64.- ( 1 ) The powers of a company shall, if they would not otherwise do so, be deemed to include power to make the following provision for the benefit of persons employed or formerly employed by the company or any of its subsidiaries, that is to say, provision in connection with the cessation or the transfer to any person of the whole or part of the undertaking of that company or that subsidiary. 
Sub-section ( I ) above relates only to the capacity of a company as a body corporate and is without prejudice to any provision in a company's memorandum or articles requiring any exercise of the power mentioned in that sub-section to be approved by the company in general meeting or otherwise prescribing the manner in which that power is to be exercised. 
I thank the Senate. Those clauses merely attempt to import into company law directors' social obligations towards employees. They are to have a lawful duty to consider much more than the interests of shareholders. Given the brief time available to me I do not pursue that point now. 
I turn, now to a matter of equal concern to me, namely, the attitude taken to this Bill by some members of the coalition parties in the House of Representatives. It is unfortunate that an impression was given in that place that somehow Tasmania once again is seeking to be parasitic on the Australian body politic. I know that  Senator Rocher,  who will follow me, will not be taking that line in his speech. I simply say very firmly indeed that that attitude perpetuates a vicious myth which seriously disadvantages Tasmania when it comes to arrangements that emanate from this Parliament or city. It is utterly untrue that the richer States subsidise Tasmania. On the contrary, Tasmanians have contributed massively for many years to the economic health of this nation for very small return. 
Mainlanders may be said to be parasitic on Tasmania. For example, Tasmania's exports in the year ended 30 June 1977 were $828 per head of population. This compares with a mere $551 per head for New South Wales and $589 per head for Victoria. I could go on and on to give other examples. The fact is that we in Tasmania are producers, not consumers, of wealth. Tasmania was never a mendicant State for any reason to do with our productivity or enterprise. This has been forced on us by certain federal arrangements. We provide overseas earnings for Australia but then we have to pay for manufactured products from the heavily protected manufacturing industries of the south east mainland. Our standard of living in Tasmania would skyrocket if we imported manufactured products with earnings from our exports. We have decided not to do so because we recognise that we are part of a federation with various States requiring various types of employment base. In the south east mainland, manufacturing industry is required; in Tasmania, as part of the Federal deal, we require support from other States for our mining and primary industries. 
Let us not forget that Tasmanians are also contributors to Federal revenue. We contribute in ways which are masked, which allow other mainland States to take advantage of our contributions. I shall explain. Tax on income earned in Tasmania, for example, may be collected and credited in another State where a firm is operating in Tasmania but has its head office in, say, Melbourne or Sydney. In purchasing goods originating on the mainland or overseas, Tasmanian consumers pay excise or customs duty which is incorporated in the price of the goods. But the actual excise payment of course is credited and paid into another State. These facts are rarely acknowledged which I bring to the attention of honourable sentors to show the ways in which we contribute to Federal revenue. It is not asking too much that at a time of crisis- with a guarantee of repayment given an ascending level of copper prices- that the Federal Treasury help Queenstown through this monetary crisis in its long and successful history. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-On 15 August I assumed my place in the Senate and when I did so made the affirmation rather than take the oath. I did so for my own reasons, based on injunctions in the fifth chapters of both St Matthew and St James to say yes or no rather than use oaths at all. No doubt each senator comes to a decision whether to take the oath or make the affirmation for reasons that he or she finds compelling or, at least, attractive. It is an option which is permitted under the Constitution but I would say that it is permitted as a matter of law rather than, in a sense, as a matter of practice I felt that the making of an affirmation was somehow regarded as culturally deficient. It did not have the majesty and tradition of taking the oath; it was rather regarded as a concession. As I have said, it did not have the cultural backing that is associated with the taking of the oath. 
At the reception after the installation of new senators I had the temerity to bring the matter to the attention of  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral. I made the point that whereas those who took the oath had the privilege of receiving from  His Excellency  a Bible signed by the Governor-General, those who made the affirmation had no such memento of the occasion provided. I felt that perhaps something could be done in this regard. So I made a request that the Governor-General perhaps consider the matter and I also brought it to the attention of officers of the Senate for their consideration and action. I was delighted to find today that my request apparently fell on fertile ground. Today I was informed that a document has been prepared on behalf of those senators who made the affirmation. I understand that it is to be signed by  His Excellency  tomorrow. 
This particular document I think has been sighted by most honourable senators during the day. This is a cause of great satisfaction. It will be satisfying to have such a memento. It is a matter of pride to have a record signed by the Governor-General of that particular event which is auspicious in the life of any senator. It also in my view brings the practical cultural status of the affirmation to the proper level. It brings it into line with the constitutional legal status that it has of being on a par with the taking of an oath. I rise tonight very briefly to thank all the officers of the Senate who have prepared the documentation in such a short time and have supervised its production in conjunction with the Government Printer who is also to be commended on the job he has done. I thank you,  Mr President,  for your role in encouraging this particular project and of course, if it is proper to do so, I thank the Governor-General for so promptly acceding to this request. I am sure that all honourable senators would join with me in welcoming this particular innovation in our proceedings. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I believe that the introduction of these amendments to the Atomic Energy Act amounts to an admission by the Government of how inappropriate this Act is as the legislative framework for the development and exploitation of uranium within Australia. This conclusion of mine is not simply something to be deduced from the provisions of the Bill; it is quite explicit in the admission by the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony),  in his second reading speech in another place where he says, of the Atomic Energy Act, that provisions to cover mining on a commercial basis were never included. He goes on to say that despite the fact that amendments have been introduced, this does not indicate that the Government has in mind using the Act for other mining projects. That disenchantment with the Minister in another place is understandable because, as I say, the Atomic Energy Act is quite inappropriate as as vehicle for the exploitation of mining of uranium for peaceful purposes and for commercial profit. I would go further and say that not only is the legislative framework as a whole inappropriate and totally inadequate to deal with the situation but also that the decision of the Government to continue using this Act in the face of the admitted inadequacy alerts us to a possible further reason for maintaining the Atomic Energy Act as the legislation governing the development of the Ranger project. I will come to that later but it is for that larger reason that the Opposition is determined to oppose these amendments. 
We say that no amendment can save the basic impropriety of using an Act which was formulated in the early 1950s to deal with a completely different defence situation, namely, the exploitation of the Rum Jungle deposits in order to aid the nuclear weapons programs of our allies. We say that that Act was drawn on a completely different basis to that which is said to prevail at the moment, namely, that we are trying to develop these deposits to help an energy starved world and for commercial profit. 

 Senator Young said that the amendments would make the Act more responsive to ordinary commercial principles governing mining. It is true that the amendments confer security of tenure on the joint venturers for a period of 2 1 years from the commencement of mining and allow for a further renewal of the period if the consent of the appropriate land councils can be obtained. But as I read the amendments, revocation of the authority by the Minister cannot occur. Perhaps I should say that revocation can occur but only on the application of the joint venturers. It is true that if the conditions or the restrictions in the authority are not complied with, the Minister can take certain action which has the effect of preventing mining for a limited or stated period; but what is not included in these amendments is the normal provision one finds in State mining laws and no doubt in the Northern Territory mining ordinance, which allows, in terms of State mining laws, for forfeiture of the lease. There is no provision here giving the Minister any authority to revoke the mining authority given to the joint venturers. That, I think, gives the lie- if I may use that expression,  Mr Deputy President-  to the claim made by the Minister in his second reading speech. In any case it shows the confusion the Minister is deliberately trying to create in the public mind when he says that the purpose of the amendments is to bring the Act into line with normal provisions governing mining in the States. I think really that much of what  Senator Young  said when he was speaking about the Bill thereby falls to the ground. In no way are these provisions equatable with the ordinary provisions of mining Acts in the States in that no absolute forfeiture at the instance of the Minister is provided for. 
It is true, as  Senator Button  said, that the effect of the passage of this legislation will be that a future Labor government will not be able to revoke the authority to mine. It will, of course, always be able to prevent the export of the products of that mine, But a future Labor Government will not be able to revoke authority to mine on the ground, say, of insufficient safeguards for the disposal of waste or for the international movement of these materials. That is merely a special vice of the amended legislation that will emerge later today. No doubt it is an important factor, perhaps the dominant factor, in the Government's desire to push these amendments through and is reason enough for the Opposition to oppose them. The decision of the Government, as expressed in these amendments, flies in the face of recommendation No. 6 of the First Report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry, known colloquially as the Fox report. Recommendation No. 6 states, in part, it should be assured: 
. that the Commonwealth can at any time, on the basis of considerations of the nature discussed in this Report, immediately terminate those activities, permanently, indefinitely or for a specified period. 
These amendments, in failing to follow the normal course of State rnining laws to give the Minister the ability to revoke or forfeit the authority, fly in the face of that recommendation of the Fox report. The Ranger Inquiry made that recommendation consequent upon recommendation No. 3 which states: 
The nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increased risk of nuclear war. This is the most serious hazard associated with the industry. 
It suggested that certain steps ought to be taken to reduce that hazard. If, at some future stage, that hazard should be realised, there is nothing in these amendments which would allow the Minister to reduce it. In fact these amendments prevent the Minister from revoking the authority as the Inquiry suggested he ought to be able to do in recommendation No. 6. There is no need to labour the point. It has been stated already by  Senator Button  that on 25 August 1977, barely a year ago,  Mr Anthony,  when presenting to the Australian people the Government's response to the Ranger Inquiry, stated that recommendation No. 6, giving the Commonwealth the flexibility and the necessary power to intervene should some hazard arise in relation to the international movement of this material or in relation to the disposal of waste, would in fact be carried out. But that promise, that undertaking, we now find abandoned. Of course, this can hardly be surprising to honourable senators. The use of the Atomic Energy Act is in plain contradiction to the views expressed by the Ranger Commissioners. 
I come now to the fundamental protest of the Opposition to the use of this Act, even as amended- perhaps especially as amendedbecause the amendments give it a veneer of ordinariness which can hardly be said to be deserved. There is a fatal flaw, a comprehensive flaw, distributed throughout the whole of the Atomic Energy Act. I stress that the use of this Act in 1978 in relation to the development of this Ranger resource for peaceful purposes to serve an energy starved world and for commercial profit ought to be recognised to be in a completely different context from that which led to the promulgation of the Act in 1953 when, as I say, we were concerned to provide from Rum Jungle weapons materials for the programs of our allies. We in the Opposition say that a legislative structure should be devised which is more in harmony with, more akin to, ordinary mining laws although, of course, taking account of the special nature of this particular energy source. I repeat that the Cabinet, in the face of the recommendation of the Fox report, decided against acting in accordance with the recommendation which is found at page 248 of the second Fox report. It states: 
We strongly recommend against the use of that Act for the grant of an authority to Ranger to mine uranium. 
The report makes that recommendation for the reasons I have outlined. 
It is true to say, and I think it needs to be freely admitted, that the Labor Government decided that this Act was suitable as an initial legislative base for the Ranger venture; but that same Government then set up the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry and, I believe, undoubtedly would have acted on the recommendation of the Ranger Inquiry to abandon this Act- a recommendation which was based on most cogent considerations which I will outline to the Senate shortly. However, the fact is that this Cabinet, faced with the Fox recommendation, decided to maintain the use of this particular legislative structure. 
Why am I and the Opposition concerned? And why did the Government so decide? I really think that if one outlines some of the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act, the answer to both questions emerges. Under Part IV of the Act, the conveying of information concerning the composition of the ore body, if not otherwise published, is assumed to be prejudicial to the defence of the Commonwealth, as it is the conveying of restricted information. Paragraph (a) of section 47 of this Act concerns the prosecution of a person who relays this information, and states: it is not necessary to show that he was guilty of a particular act tending to show an intent to prejudice the defence of the Commonwealth and, notwithstanding that no such act is proved against him, he may be convicted if, from the circumstances of the case, his conduct, or his known character as proved, it appears that he acted with intent to prejudice the defence of the Commonwealth; 
Earlier this afternoon a proposal was put forward in a report presented by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs that Bills should be scrutinised in order to ensure that they are not in conflict with our ordinary civil liberties. I say without any hesitation that had that provision been referred to such a scrutiny Committee it would have been the subject of a special reference to this Parliament for its serious consideration. 
Perhaps more disturbing is section 54 of the Act. It states: 
No action lies against the Commonwealth, a State, the Commission, a constable or a peace officer in respect of an arrest, apprehension, detention, search, seizure or act in pursuance of or for the purposes of this Part, but, if the Governor-General is satisfied that an arrest, apprehension, detention, search, seizure or act was made or done without reasonable cause, he may award reasonable compensation in respect of it. 
The effect of section 54, of course, is to grant immunity in advance. Commonwealth Police officers know of the existence of this section and know that they are assured of immunity in respect of illegal detentions, arrests of persons, the searching of premises or the seizure of property. This granting of immunity from legal repercussions in advance is precisely the technique employed by the Smith regime in Rhodesia in regard to members of its armed forces who were told in advance that they could carry out actions against the general population in Rhodesia without any risk of criminal sanction. The result of a section like section 54 is obvious: A situation is created whereby with political connivance on the part of the Minister, co-called security action and harassment can take place with impunity. Police and so-called peace officers can enter homes; they can seize property and can search, detain and arrest without any risk of being called before a court to explain their actions. 
It may be, too, that under section 60 of this Act, the whole Ranger project has become an Approved Defence Project because of the contribution by the Atomic Energy Commission of working capital for the project. If that is the case, and there is a very respectable argument that it is the case, then the project comes under the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act of 1947. Under that Act, if any person boycotts the project- say, by withdrawal of labour- or speaks or writes in advocacy of preventing the carrying out of some aspect of the project, then that person is guilty of an offence. So, under the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act, ordinary civil rights of protest, whether by withdrawal of labour- after all we are not yet a conscripted slave society- or by normal peaceful practical measures of dissent, such as circulating a pamphlet, marching in a street or giving a speech- all these non-violent means of protest which ought to be positively encouraged in a demoracy- may lead one to be convicted. 
What is worse is that the offence can be prosecuted either summarily or upon indictment. The conclusion, depending on which way the prosecution is mounted, can be liability to a fine of $1,000 or six months' imprisonment if the offence is prosecuted summarily or a fine of $10,000 or 12 months' imprisonment if the offence is prosecuted upon indictment. So, quite an extraordinary and undue discretion is given to the Attorney-General to decide on what basis a prosecution will take place under the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act. 
Yes, that is right. The whole point is that whilst these provisions have not been brought into operation at the moment, they are potentially available to Government. This must be the explanation for the Government continuing with the Atomic Energy Act as the legislative framework for the development of the Ranger project, despite the very clear recommendation against it by the Ranger Inquiry Commissioners. In other words, the fact that we are presently free to advocate a timetable other than that of the Government is merely a privilege. It is a permission; it is something allowed to us by the Government for the time being. However, to be granted the privilege by the Government to engage in peaceful protest is not to enjoy a civil right and, surely, that is really what democracy is all about. In a democracyadmittedly, for the time being- the majority makes the laws but the minority is entitled to dissent from the Government's program by peaceful, non-violent means. That is a right, not a privilege. 
I am coming to the end of my remarks and I hope that honourable senators perceive why it is that the Opposition finds that merely to amend the Atomic Energy Act is in no way to ameliorate the situation created by its provisions. We say that if development is to go ahead it should be within the framework of laws more akin to the ordinary mining laws of the States and the 
Northern Territory, making due allowance for the special nature of this particular metal. We believe that the legislation which at the moment governs the development of the Ranger project is quite incompatible with our ordinary civil and political liberties. For those reasons the Opposition very strongly opposes the Bill. 
Four or so years ago it was alleged that Santo and Gaetano Oteri some time between 20 and 24 January 1 974 stole crayfish pots and tackle while on the vessel  Providence  on the high seas about 22 miles off the Western Australian coast. The Privy Council eventually decided that because they were naturalised Australian citizens and British subjects and owners of the vessel, the vessel was a British ship within the meaning of an imperial statute of, I think, 1799 and that the criminal law of England- in this case the Theft Act- applied. In other words, in relation to an offence committed off the Western Australian coast by naturalised Australian citizens on board a fishing vessel normally operating out of Fremantle and licensed to do so under Western Australian law the ordinary jurisdiction of the Western Australian courts was not applicable and Western Australian criminal law could not be applied. The case fell to be determined within ancient admiralty criminal jurisdiction. I believe that that situation is intolerable to any Australian, but particularly to those of us who believe that our national status demands that Australian citizens be subject only to legal rules devised by Australian courts or by Australian parliaments and not by bodies in the United Kingdom, in particular. 
This Bill seeks to deal with that situation which would, I believe, if left unremedied by any action of our Australian parliaments, amount to a very serious derogation from our national sovereignty; and, more than that, I believe it would be an affront to ordinary commonsense. It would be contrary to the expectations of ordinary people, as  Senator Missen  pointed out, if I, when returning to Tasmania, to that efficient and beautiful port of Devonport across Bass Strait, were subjected to assault by somebody with a deadly weapon and, rather than bring that culprit to justice under Victorian or Tasmanian law, had to seek to bring him to justice under United Kingdom statutes. The Bill proposes to fulfil ordinary, normal, commonsense expectations that Tasmania or Victorian State law would apply. 
I am also particularly pleased to see that in clause 7 it is proposed that the provisions, for example, of the Tasmanian Criminal Code would be applicable to an Act of a person who commits on board a foreign vessel an offence such as murder whilst in the course of a voyage, say, from Auckland to Bell Bay, or whilst on board a fishing vessel fishing for squid off the east coast of Tasmania. I believe that as joint fishing ventures become more common the use of this legislation will also become more common and very helpful. 
I do note the defence available in clause 7- that a person may not come within the terms of the Act if the offence with which he is charged is not an offence in the country of his nationality. I assume that this would not happen often. Most countries have laws relating to ordinary crimes such as murder, theft, robbery and assault. I am wondering whether laws relating to the possession and use of drugs are the most likely ones to fall within this defence. I am wondering whether the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  might give some indication of the type or scope of actions to which this defence might be thought to be applicable. 
It was indicated by  Senator Button  that the Opposition supports and commends this legislation as the fruit of collaboration between the Attorneys-General. It is a good example of federalism at work. We have had the complementary State legislation brought to our attention- at least, that enacted by Victoria. It appears that it will, for example, cover purely intrastate voyages. 
Apparently it leads the way in this matter. Of course, in four months Victoria will lead the way on a whole range of matters. It needs to be emphasised, however, that this legislation in no way detracts from the total sovereignty of this Parliament over the waters, seabed, et cetera, adjacent to the Australian coast from the low water mark outwards. That was the effect of the High Court decision in the Seas and Submerged Lands Act case. This legislation in no way retreats from that position- nor could it, of course. It is on that basis that the Opposition supports the Bill wholeheartedly. We maintain that resources in the seabed and waters adjacent to Australia are properly thought of and properly to be exploited as Australian national resources, belonging to the whole of the Australian people without regard to State boundaries or claimed State interests. 
These former colonial boundaries, now State boundaries, should be ignored in regard to matters beyond the low water mark. What cannot be ignored is the absolute need to ensure that where breaches of the normal rules relating to the protection of life, liberty or property are concerned, some law be certain and available to deal with them. Having to resort to the ancient admiralty jurisdiction in order to discover what law is applicable would be intolerable. It has proved intolerable. It is most convenient then that the criminal laws of the States and the jurisdiction of State courts be able to fasten on to the alleged offender and allow for the matter to be tried. This cannot be done directly. For example, State criminal law could not constitutionally apply to Oteri 's case with the crayfish pots. 
Commonwealth law cannot do the unconstitutional. Therefore I do not think that the Attorney-General is quite correct. Elaboration at least is needed when he said in his second reading speech that the effect of the Bill is to apply the criminal laws of an appropriate State or Territory to offences on or from Australian ships on overseas, interstate and Territory voyages. Rather the Bill takes, as I understand it, the State law as denned, whether written or unwritten, and adopts its terms as the terms of the Federal law applicable to the situation. It is simply that this Parliament, rather than take the time to enact an ordinary criminal code to deal with all matters beyond a low water mark, as it could within its power- it is entitled to do so- is proposing in relation to offshore offences, connected with Tasmania for example, to take and adopt the provisions of the Tasmanian Criminal Code and transmute them into the provisions of a notional Federal statute to deal with offences at sea, off the coast or related to Tasmania. 
I seek the Attorney-General's comment on this way of putting the legal situation created by the Act. I do not do so for any narrow, legalistic or pedantic purpose but because I consider it crucial to policy, and in any case constitutional, to make it clear that the Federal Parliament is not abandoning its total ability to determine what shall or shall not be offences beyond the low water mark and the manner in which they are to be determined and disposed of. It is simply that in this case, on the whole, the Parliament thinks it convenient and suitable to cause the least disruption to ordinary expectations by adopting convenient State legal systems as its own. On that basis the Opposition commends the Attorney-General and his counterparts from the States and the Northern Territory and their various officers for devising a very neat scheme which claims for this nation its rightful jurisdiction over criminal offences, admittedly beyond its low water mark, which are its proper concern. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
1 ) Is the television reception available to residents of the East Devonport and Spreyton areas of North-West Tasmania sub-standard. 
Will the Minister approve the erection of commercial and national television translators on Kelsey Tier. 
Will he grant his approval fora translator to be erected and used by TNT9 if the national translator cannot be provided immediately. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. The Attorney-General would be aware of the collapse of Associated Securities Limited, which perhaps appears likely to leave many tens of thousands of shareholders and investors without effective redress- certainly without their money. He would also be aware that the commonly advanced reason for the failure was the disintegration of the real property market some years ago. Can the Attorney-General indicate any steps which the Government has instituted in response to this collapse or does it simply regard the failure as an unfortunate, likely happening within our present economic system? Will the Attorney-General seek an early meeting of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General to ensure that proposed State legislation to deal with the securities and finance industries includes provision for the requiring of disclosure of the difference between book and market values of interests in land? In the absence of State action in this matter will the Attorney-General consider introducing legislation into this Parliament, similar to that introduced by former  Senator Murphy  in his Companies and Securities Industry Bill 1974, to ensure that shareholders and investors are given a true picture of the value of real property held by corporations? Finally, does the Attorney-General agree that, quite apart from legislative command, directors of finance companies, and indeed other companies, would do well to present realistic valuations of property by way of self-regulation of their industry? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. The Minister will be aware of the announcement of the closure of the North West Acid Pty Ltd plant in Burnie with the obviously consequent very serious effects on unemployment within that plant and in various related industries or enterprises in the north-west of Tasmania. Can the Minister give an undertaking that the Commonwealth Employment Service will be speedily and fully involved in helping employees to find alternative employment both within the north-west area and elsewhere? Will he consider supplementing the Burnie staff of the CES to advise those who will be without employment from 6 July? Will he ensure that the procedures and qualifications for the relocation allowance are well publicised and applied in a helpful fashion by the CES? 
I congratulate  Senator Hamer  on bringing forward this motion. I do so however not to endorse in any specific part the proposals he has advanced but because I believe that the motion as a whole takes a correct perspective and is based on a proper premise which is in harmony with the basic thinking within the Australian Labor Party on the relative role of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the two chambers of this Parliament, in relation to government. The basic principle adhered to by the Australian Labor Party is that the House of Representatives is the chamber whose confidence is required for the formation of a government and whose confidence must be retained for the continued existence of a government but that the confidence of the Senate should be irrelevant to the formation and continued existence of a government, that is, of a ministry. That is why I am in sympathy with the general thrust of  Senator Hamer's  proposal. 

 Senator Hamer's motion describes one way of creating political arrangements to give effect to the fundamental constitutional arrangements which we see as proper. It does so by making it clear, with one exception, that the members of the government, which in our parliamentary system is simply an Executive composed of members of the parliament, should come solely from that House whose confidence they must obtain initially and retain for the duration of that parliament. I am not saying that  Senator Hamer's  proposal is the only or the best way to express by way of practical arrangements that conviction concerning the relative role of the chambers in relation to the formation of a government. 
The reason I entered the debate tonight at short notice was to say that if  Senator Hamer's  proposal is the sole reform proposed to give expression to that principle of linking government and the House of Representatives and breaking the link between the government and the Senate, I predict it would be unacceptable to the Australian Labor Party, which would want to see such a reform coupled with the removal of the claimed power of the Senate to dismiss a government by withholding supply. We maintain that responsible and effective national government in Australia cannot be reconciled with a form of parliament in which each ofthe chambers, possibly with majorities of politically different persuasions, is empowered to reject Supply. 
I do not want my remarks to be interpreted as some sort of knee-jerk reaction to the events of 1975 but I must emphasise the principles which the Australian Labor Party then saw as being at stake. No reason has emerged in the years that have intervened between those hysterical times and the calm of this chamber tonight to alter our basic belief, which, I reiterate, is that it should be sufficient for the continued existence of the government that it continue to enjoy the confidence of the House of Representatives. After all, the creation of the government depends on the initial confidence of the House of Representatives. 
No one has suggested that the Senate should pass some resolution approving the creation of the Prime Minister. Nor should his continuing in office depend on the continuous approval of the Senate. To put it another way: If the Senate passed a motion of no confidence in the government, surely there is no suggestion that the government should resign or advise a dissolution of the House of Representatives. It seems anomalous that such a result might be obtained through the refusal of Supply, which is in fact the traditional sanction for refusing to yield to a no confidence motion. 
More than some sort of anomaly is involved here, as has been pointed out many timeslatterly by  Senator Thomas.  The Senate is as much a party House as is the House of Representatives. We believe that no mechanism should be available to a naturally hostile Opposition to force an election at its will. The issue is not whether there shall be an election to determine the government. There must be an election within three years of the summoning of the Parliament. But when that election shall occur and by whom it shall be called is the issue involved. To entrust such a power to the opposition- that is, to the minority group within the House of Representatives- is destructive not only of responsible government but also of stable government. In that respect, with the conduct of important national economic affairs, that proves disastrous for no government can afford to court unpopularity in the short term by pursuing policies which it believes will benefit the nation in the long term. 
I believe that  Senator Hamer's  proposal symbolically deals a severe blow to the supposed link between the Government and this chamber by the proposed insistence that departmental Ministers of State do not sit here. Certainly the consequence of the motion, if carried, would be to emphasise the proper link between the government and the House of Representatives. What we say is that that link should be to the exclusion of all others. To have brought this matter so dramatically and symbolically to the attention of the Australian community alone merits praise for  Senator Hamer,  but I believe that it will not engender widespread bipartisan support if left as a solitary proposal. It must be part of a wider and deeper breaking of the government-Senate nexus. 
If I may speak more positively, the whole endeavour, as I see it, of  Senator Hamer's  motion is to strengthen this chamber's role as a House of review. Both  Senator Hamer  and  Senator Thomas  have spoken eloquently to that effect. I do not intend to dwell on the merits of the proposal as they were well outlined by them. But I would make some minor comment about the proposal to strengthen the powers of the Senate standing committees and estimates committees by enhancing the status of their chairmen. It seems to me to be slightly putting the cart before the horse. In my view the matter and events should flow the other way, that is, if a Senate committee were required, as it would be in the absence of Ministers in this chamber, to summon before it the Minister of State responsible for the department with which it is concerned, I believe, as was rightly pointed out by preceding honourable senators, that the committee's role within this parliament would be enhanced or strengthened in a way which would then reflect merited glory on the  chairman.  If it proves to be the case that he requires more staff and resources to carry out this greater scrutiny of government proposals then so be it. But do not merely bestow the perquisites of status on the  chairman  as an initial step, or at least be prepared for that status to flow from the really enhanced work and strengthening of the committees. 
I, too, am only speaking very briefly. Therefore I return to my beginning, which was to congratulate  Senator Hamer  for bringing forward this motion. I do not endorse it in any particular respect but because, as I have said, the motion adopts a premise or at least takes a certain perspective which is in harmony with much of the feeling within the community concerning the proper relation of the two chambers to government. It is for that reason that I maintain that the proposal warrants proper consideration as one part of the practical proposals that might be considered by the community in the general aim of strengthening parliamentary democracy in Australia. 
-The Foreign Antitrust Judgments (Restriction of Enforcement) Bill 1979 brings to a sort of finality a dispute which has been festering between the Australian and United States Governments for some years, particularly in relation to the United States Department of Justice. I say that it brings the matter to a sort of finality because no doubt this Bill, if it becomes law, will be seen to be only a step in the further negotiations with the United States Attorney-General in particular over the enforcement in Australia of judgments of United States courts in anti-trust proceedings. It is final in that at last the Australian Government has given notice of its answer to the question: To what extent will decisions by foreign courts concerning anti-trust matters be enforceable within Australia? The answer is very clearly given, namely, that Australian companies will be affected by United States judgments within Australia only if the Government thinks it is desirable. 
Clearly, in many cases the Government will make the judgment that in the public interestthe national interest, as it is called in the Bill- it is not desirable. This decision could be made on one of several grounds. The first is fairly simple and most obvious. The damages awarded, particularly under treble damages provisions, against Australian companies for colluding in arrangements which force up the price of metals sold in the United States, for example, may be so astronomical that the effect of allowing the enforcement of the award in Australia would be crippling to the companies concerned. The Westinghouse company alone, I believe, is seeking damages of some $7 billion from the cartel of uranium producers which it is alleged forced up the price of uranium on the American market to a very large extent. To have to share in even a very small part of the $7 billion which might be awarded against some 29 companies that are alleged to have acted in a consortium to bid up the prices would be to face the Australian companies concerned with crippling damages. It may be judged in the national interest that those companies should not be so subjected. Indeed, as  Senator Button  noted, part of the Bill provides that, even if the Attorney-General accepts that the judgment's validity ought to be recognised in Australia, the amount of the damages awarded can be reduced. 
The second major ground on which the Australian Government might consider it undesirable to have foreign anti-trust judgments enforced against Australian business enterprises lies in a changed perception by this Government of its proper role in helping Australian producers of minerals and energy resources to achieve satisfactory prices on the world market. There is, and no doubt there always will be, a basic conflict of interest between say, the United States purchasers of Australian resources, whether they be alumina, zinc, uranium or natural gas, and the Australian business enterprise exporting the commodity. The conflict clearly lies in relation to the price to be paid. Clearly a cartel of cooperative bidders in relation to a particular commodity is the last thing with which the United States purchaser wants to be confronted. Yet now, belatedly, following the dramatic initiative by the late Rex Connor when he was the Minister for Minerals and Energy under the previous Labor Government, this Government has acknowledged price fixing in the case of uranium, and in regard to iron ore, coal, bauxite and alumina the setting of prices below which commodity enterprises in Australia must not go in selling our mineral and energy resources abroad. That is now all part of Government policy. 
I should like to quote from a ministerial statement on our uranium export policy by the Rt Hon. J. D. Anthony, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Resources. The Minister, amongst other things, said: 
The Minister will also determine terms and conditions relating to the duration of the contract, the quantity of the uranium to be sold under the contract, the method of shipment of the uranium, the price payable for the uranium, the manner, including the currency, of payment and the use to which the uranium is to be put by the purchaser. 
We of the Opposition, of course, commend that approach. As far as the other minerals I mentioned are concerned, the Government also, as is well known, has taken the view in regard to iron ore, coal, bauxite and alumina that parameters should be set in respect of the prices which Australian exporters can negotiate in the world markets. We think that this is an absolutely necessary step to take in order to present to the invariably united purchasers of our commodities a united front by our producers. 
This legislation, seemingly so esoteric and dealing only with the legal process, is really part of that support by this Government for Australian commodity producers. For that reason the Australian Labor Party certainly supports the spirit of the legislation. This legislation is our legal system's answer to the use by United States consumers of their legal system to protect their interests. There is no doubt in my mind that the decision by the United States Department of Justice to enforce vigorously its anti-trust legislation against overseas resource companies selling minerals and energy products in the US is simply a part of the US consumers' effort to strengthen their bargaining position in the world market for the sorts of commodities that we can provide. It is very clear that what may be in the interests of 
US consumers will not coincide with the interests of this nation in securing a reasonable return for the depletion and exploitation of our resources. This legislation enables the Australian nation, acting in its national interest, to resist the enforcement of judgments favouring overseas consumers purchasing our products. To that extent, and for that reason, the Opposition agrees with the underlying principles embodied in the legislation, in particular the provisions in clause 3 (2) (b) which in part says that the AttorneyGeneral may, when he is satisfied that it is desirable for the purpose of protecting the national interest, order that the judgment not be recognised or enforceable in whole or in part in Australia. 
But it is a fact that the very vagueness of the criteria 'national interest', the lack of specifics and the lack of detail which could enable one to lay down certain measures against which to argue, have naturally led to the most important, perhaps legal, alteration to the present situation; namely, that the decision whether to enforce a foreign judgment is taken out of the hands of our superior courts and given to a Minister of the Crown. The member of the Ministry no doubt willmake his judgment of the national interest according to broad political criteria in assessing whether or not to enforce the judgment. We think that that obviously is necessary in that there is an abandonment of the usual specific criteria regarding the enforcement of a foreign judgment, such as whether the court gave its decision because of fraud, duress and so on. Given the broad criteria to which the Attorney-General is asked to address his mind, it is appropriate that he, as a political officer, be the one to make the decision. 
There needs to be some check on this, however. At first glance the Bill does provide a check in that either House of Parliament may set aside an order of the Attorney-General by moving in the usual disallowance period. But I must say that this seems to sit ill at ease with those provisions of the legislation which allow the Attorney-General 's order to be effective from the date of publication in the  Gazette.  For example- I pose this question so that the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  may be able to help the Opposition- if the Attorney-General were to decide that it is not in the national interest that some Australian company should pay some millions of dollars awarded by way of punitive damages in a United States judgment, but that in his view compensation might properly be payable to the US plaintiff for loss actually proved, and as a consequence ordered that the amount of damages for which the judgment could be enforced in Australia be reduced from say $3m to $500,000, then on publication in the Gazette would not the judgment for the reduced amount become immediately enforceable? No doubt the party who wished to benefit from the judgment would try, with great speed, possibly and probably even before either House of Parliament had an opportunity to move to disallow the decision by the Attorney-General, try to enforce the judgment. What would be the position if steps were taken to enforce the judgment before the period for disallowance was up? 
-Is that the answer? 
In the course of the remarks that I have made I have been helped to come to a fuller understanding of that provision. Whatever the answer to that question, the Opposition still believes that the Government ought to look at this Bill again to devise a means whereby each House of the Parliament may have an opportunity to consider the reasons which appear to the Attorney-General to be weighty enough to take the extraordinary course outlined by the Bill. We put it more strongly and say that the Attorney-General should make such an order only in consequence of or with the consent of both Houses, that is, of the whole of the Parliament. This seems entirely appropriate both because of the issues to be examined- the national interest is a broad matter and properly could be looked at by this Parliament- and because of the impact of the decision on our international relations. This power will be used very sparingly and in matters of great international interest, as demonstrated by the constant exchanges between the Attorneys-General of Australia and the US. Given the gravity of the matter as seen at a government-to-government level and a nationtonation level we feel that the national parliament ought to be the body which says to the US superior court system: 'Your judgment, for the reasons outlined by the Attorney-General and given to us, ought not to be enforced either in whole or in part in Australia'. In other words, this Parliament needs to be convinced before the Attorney-General's order ought to become effective. For that reason the Opposition requests the Government to take back the Bill and redraft it so as to bring about that result. We of the Opposition hope that that course of action commends itself to the Government. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Webster)  adjourned. 
-Tonight several senators have raised for the attention of the Senate, and in particular of the Government, the plight of the inhabitants of Eritrea.  Senator Missen  has outlined some of the facts of their tragic situation. He has done so very eloquently, and he has directed attention particularly to the intensification of their situation, brought about by the heavy Soviet involvement in the offensive that has gone on since 19 November last.  Senator Missen  has done that so well that I wish to confine my remarks to what I see as the proper response of Australia to the facts he outlined. Regretfully, Australia has had a very sorry history in understanding that region, in seeking to protect its inhabitants from the murderous invasions of colonialists, whether Italy in relation to Ethiopia or now Ethiopia in relation to Eritrea. It ought to be recalled with some shame that Australia publicly advocated the lifting of sanctions imposed on the Italian invaders in 1935 by the League of Nations and in fact was the first nation to lift sanctions. 
On a reading of the statement made some days ago by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  which contains a few threadbare lines on the threat in the Horn of Africa, one wonders whether the political and humanitarian challenges thrown up by the present invasion of Eritrea by the Dergue of Ethiopia, led by  Colonel Mengistu,  are going to be met with the same callous disregard for international morality and human suffering as the Australian Government displayed in the mid and late 1930s. It seems to me that we have to direct the attention of the Australian Government to the correct political and humanitarian response to the atrocity, the genocide, occurring at the moment in the Horn of Africa. 
That there is a breach of international law, or at least of expectation as outlined by the United Nations, is undoubted. In 1952 the United Nations intended that Eritrea be an autonomous unit federated with Ethiopia. Clearly, the elements of that formula would always be difficult to reconcile in order to attain an autonomous unit. But at the very least the culture of the people, whether they be Moslem, Coptic or Christian, ought to have been kept intact. Instead, the main languages of Triginaya and Tigre were suppressed. Rights to self-government surely are to be acknowledged when one speaks of an autonomous unit, but the Eritrean flag was dishonoured and banned. So the expectation of the United Nations in 1952 was completely overridden because, for the Ethiopians, Eritrea has always been simply a stretch of country astride its routes to the Red Sea. It is a necessary stretch of land inhabited, in the opinion of the Ethiopians, by an unnecessary people, and when that attitude prevails genocide follows. 
There can be little doubt that the vastly superior technology and tactics of the Russian commanders of this war will bring about a situation little short of the devastation of a whole people while the world and, apparently, Australia remain silent. Where is our protest at the integration of Eritrea as the fourteenth province of Ethiopia in 1961? Admittedly, that appears to have been condoned by the Parliament of Eritrea, but Ethiopian soldiers were patrolling its galleries. One is reminded of the Bolsheviks in Moscow; but a closer analogy, both geographically and historically, lies in the integration of East Timor by a so-called decision of its Parliament within the nation of Indonesia while Indonesian occupying forces guarded the town of Dili. One is allowed to wonder whether the Foreign Minister's abject acceptance of the forcible integration of that small people by Indonesia's military force now silences him equally on the utterly similar situation in the Horn of Africa. 
When will we hear of instructions issued to our ambassador in Nairobi, Kenya, to raise Australia's protest at this military adventurism by the colonels of the Dergue? Where is our call to the United Nations to regain for the Eritrean people at the very least their intended autonomy? Where is our straightforward condemnation of one of the world 's super powers joining in a conflict on the continent of Africa in order to secure for itself port and dry dock facilities on the Red Sea, across which lies the wealth and strategic importance of Saudi Arabia? It appears that we save our diplomatic spleen and posturing for those occasions when we can mimmick our major allies, as we quite rightly have done in condemnation of the Vietnamese and Chinese invasions of Kampuchea and Vietnam respectively? All the Eritrean people ask is that the same principled protests be applied to the murderous onslaught under which they are withering. Have we as an Australian Government the political insight and the courage to do it? 
I turn from the political response to the humanitarian response to the claims of the displaced families of Eritrea, the 1,200,000 persons who have been made homeless, of whom, in this International Year of the Child, 400,000 are thought to be children under 12 years of age. Will the Government channel aid to these defenceless, vulnerable, voiceless, dispossessed people? Surely ways can be found to get relief certainly to the refugee camps in the Sudan, as  Senator Missen  suggested, and even into Eritrea itself. Is it too much to ask that basic medical supplies be rushed to the victims and casualties of the war on both sides?  Senator Missen  has quoted from an article on Eritrea by John Pilger, which appeared in the  New Statesman  on 28 July 1978. Pilger spoke of Gebreab Tmarian who on average amputated a limb every other night by candlelight. What was unusual was that his precious hoard of anaesthetics ran out completely and he was forced to operate using only a saw, surgical spirit and a mouth gag. In his hospital', as in others in Eritrea, stocks of blood, antiseptics, antibiotics and antimalarials also expired and have not been replenished. 
I have the honour to be a sponsor of the Eritrean Relief Committee in Australia. Recently we received a letter from the Khartoum-based Eritrean Relief Association. In it the current situation is outlined very shortly; but, more importantly, attached to it is a very practical, detailed list of the humanitarian aid- whether by way of food, shelter, blankets, clothing or medical supplies- which the victims of this conflict require. I seek leave to have the letter incorporated in  Hansard.  I have already indicated the nature of its contents to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney). 
Leave granted. 
ERITREAN RELIEF COMMITTEE 
Acute Humanitarian Situation In Eritrea 
The Eritrean people have been subjected to man made displacement suffering for many years. These sufferings have now assumed unprecedented proportions and therefore require an immediate and substantial special attention. The root cause of the present sufferings is the Ethiopian offensive waged against liberated towns and areas of Eritrea. lt is to be recalled that the Ethiopian army, supported by the Cuban officers and troops and active participation of Soviet war advisers, had launched its first offensive against liberated Eritrea July last. In their first attempt, the Ethiopians were able to bring under their control the Asmara- -Adua road and all the towns of Debaroa Mendefera Adi Quala, along it; the towns of Tessenei and Agordat and the road joining them with Ethiopia's bases in the North Western Ethiopia. They also reoccupied the towns of Segeneiu, Digsa, Decemare, abandoned by the EPLF. This brought the south and west of Eritrea under their control. 
The present offensive started on 18 November. This one distinguishes itself from the first one by the very heavy Soviet involvement and its destructive capacity. Two Soviet Generals, eleven high ranking officers and hundreds of other military personnel are carrying military activities, including the piloting of Mig 23s, manning and servicing of the heavy artillery and handling of logistic support to the battlefields and medical services. It is stated that the Soviet officers actually plan the strategy of the present offensive and are in complete command of its execution. More than a hundred thousand Ethiopian troops with about SOO tanks and hundreds of heavy artillery and guns, several dozen planes and many Soviet war ships have been deployed for this offensive. Besides sophisticated equipment and methods of warfare, modern techniques are being used by the Soviets for reconnaissance and other military activities. The war and its destructive impact has therefore escalated to unprecedented proportions. 
Seventeen long years of bitter armed struggle for selfdetermination have been accompanied by destruction of homes, crops, property and means of livelihood of hundreds of thousands of people. 300,000 people have left the country and over half a million have been displaced within the country especially as a result of the heavy engagement since 1975. The present offensive was started by the Ethiopians on all three fronts simultaneously: in the east from Massawa, from Asmara in the direction of Keren and in the west from Agordat towards Keren. Hard battles with the involvement of tens of thousands of Ethiopian troops, bombings, straflings, heavy artillery and tank shelling in very large numbers have caused massive destruction of property and have inflicted heavy casualties. 
So far in large areas, especially north of Asmara in the highlands, most of the crops, now dry and ripe for harvest have been burnt to ashes; close to 40 villages of populations of about 1,000 persons have been totally ruined and over 100 more have suffered big damages; close to 5,000 civilians are reported dead and seriously wounded; 8,000 getting medical treatment. Heavy military activities, cast and north of Asmara, have forced 60,000 people to abandon their homes and flee to safer areas in the north. About 40,000 have been evacuated from Keren and its surrounding areas alone. As a direct and immediate result of the present Ethiopian offensive, therefore, a total of 100,000 persons have been displaced and made homeless. 
To satisfy the basic needs of food, shelter and medicine of these destitutes for given periods the items are listed below: 
Food: 
Durra, Wheat, Maize, etc.- 50 tons per day; Milk powder- 5 tons per day; Beans, Lentils, Peas, etc.- 3 tons per day; Oil, Butter, Fat- 3 tons per day. 
All food items can be purchased in the Sudan relatively cheaply. 
Shelter. Many displaced persons are just out in the countryside, living under trees, in caves and under makeshift shelters. 
Tents of various sizes are required. 
Blankets. 40,000. 
Clothing. Light weight, all sons. 65 per cent children 's, 25 per cent women's, 15 percent men's. 
Medical Supplies: 
Crystalline penicillin- ( 10,000 x 1 ml vials); Surgical gauze- (50,000 sq. meters); Elastic bandages- (25,000 rolls); Eurazin soluble dressing- (500 x 400 gm. jars); Bactrim tablets-( 100,000); Baralgin tablets--(50,000) Tetanus Anti-toxin-( 100,000 amps 1500 u); Baralgin ampules-( 100,000 amps). 
We therefore appeal to you in this emergency situation to secure in funds or in kind any amount of the above mentioned relief items urgently. 
Goods sent by ship to-ERA, P.O. Box 285, Port Sudan 
Air freighted goods to-ERA, P.O. Box 8129, Khartoum, Tel. 74175. 
All transfer of funds to be credited to our account No. M/2728, Sudan Commercial Bank, Khanoum. 
Please do not hestitate to contact us for any additional informations. 
With kind regards. 
ERA telex 55 1 Kameiroo Khartoum 
1 thank the Senate. Two days ago I was visited by two persons with an intimate knowledge of the situation in Ethiopia, the Sudan and Eritrea. One was Miss Valerie Browning, who has nursed in the refugee camps of the Sudan and travelled at great risk within Eritrea, relieving suffering. This young lady, who is a nurse, personifies a humanity and courage of which Australian youth is sometimes said to be incapable. That is certainly not so in her case. With her was Fesse Haie Abraham, a young Eritrean who is studying in Australia, a gentle and intelligent man who has worked for many months with Tadesse Kahsai to help their brothers and sisters at home. Together with Russell Rollason of the Australian Council of Churches, they have established an organisation that is respected for its integrity in explaining the Eritrean situation to the Australian people. Each member of this Parliament has received their pamphlet headed 'Eritrea- a forgotten suffering people'. I hope that that pamphlet and the contributions by senators tonight help to create a climate of opinion, especially amongst the Government parties, so that a formula may be devised to get substantial and appropriate aid to these people quickly. It requires the support of every 
Government member to rouse the Government from its lethargy. 
I have grounds for doubt about whether that lethargy will ever be displaced. In October last year the Australian Red Cross launched a Sim national appeal called 'Operation Distress' for the victims of famine and conflict in Africa. It raised only $153,000. Early in August Leon Stubbings, the Director-General of the Australian Red Cross, called on Andrew Peacock, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and asked the Government to support the appeal. Early in January the  Chairman  of the Australian Red Cross, Noel Buckley, wrote to the Prime Minister and again asked the Government to support the appeal financially. There has been no response. 
It may be that the Government is attempting to hide behind supposed diplomatic problems in channelling aid into a purported province of Ethiopia. Ways and formulas can be found if the will is there. The British Government- this is detailed in an answer in  Hansard  of the House of Commons of 5 July 1 978- was able to make a grant-in-aid of £150,000 sterling in support of the International Committee of the Red Cross in the Horn of Africa including Eritrea. We can and should do likewise, at least. I conclude by saying that I am particularly grateful that Senators Missen and Bonner, and perhaps  Senator Knight,  intend to convey to the Government their sense of the widespread bipartisan support which the Government would enjoy if it adopted the honourable and humane steps I have outlined. We hope it does so quickly. 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether he has had his attention drawn to an Australian Associated Press report out of Chicago yesterday, the first paragraph of which read: 
Australian Treasurer John Howard had a message for American businessmen and politicians today- Stick with a tough anti-inflation policy, even at the cost of rising unemployment, and it will work. 
Does this not indicate an awareness at the highest levels of Government that the pursuit of certain anti-inflationary measures causes unemployment? Given the trade-off of a 7.8 per cent inflation rate at the end of last year against 493,000 people unemployed, what further numbers of persons will need to register with the Commonwealth Employment Service as seeking full time work in order to achieve the Government's Budget target of an inflation rate of 5 per cent within the next three or four months? If the 
Government does not expect the level of unemployment to increase significantly, has the Government abandoned any hope of achieving its Budget promise of a 5 per cent inflation rate by mid- 1979? 
-As the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  has indicated, the Opposition certainly does not oppose this legislation. The Bill is designed to block off tax avoidance schemes involving the prepayment of interest and rent, trust stripping and trust income derived overseas. The thrust of this legislation- its purpose- is entirely in harmony with the policy of the Australian Labor Party, that is, that a tax system should be constructed, or at least operated, in a way which distributes the tax burden equitably amongst the community. Quite to the contrary, the present income tax legislation has created a very baffling and unjust situation which is merely tinkered with by this Bill. I do not say that the Bill is mere tokenism. It is effective in respect of the matter with which it deals and the Opposition should commend the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  for galvanising the community, in a way which hitherto Treasurers have not done, into some sort of assault on the privileged tax avoiders in our community. I call them tax avoiders and not tax evaders. 
Some members of the community and even some members of Parliament, such as the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  take the view that there is a distinction between tax evasion and tax avoidance. They suppose that tax evasion is illegal, a sort of nasty and dirty activity such as not letting the Commissioner of Taxation know that one is earning money from a second job. On the other hand, tax avoidance is pictured as something which it is everybody's right to engage in to find a way around the present tax laws. It is said that tax evasion ought to be dealt with severely by the community whereas tax avoidance perhaps ought to be regarded as a legitimate activity of those who are facing what appears to them to be an overpayment into the country's Treasury. This Parliament has never taken that view. In fact, in the well known section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act the point is made very clearly that tax avoidance in Australia is illegal. That section was designed to give to the Taxation Commissioner a catch-all provision enabling him to tax these tax avoiding schemes. Any arrangement made to avoid the liabilities of taxation can be ignored by the Commissioner for the purposes of assessing tax. There was a time when, in fact, the Commissioner could very safely invoke the power given to him. 
This situation has changed drastically in recent  years because of the activity of the High Court of Australia. The High Court is a non-elected bench of justices who are politically irresponsible in a strict sense in that they do not have to answer to anyone for their activity no matter how devastating that activity may be within the community. There is no doubt that that Court, particularly under Chief Justice Barwick - 
Unfortunately, the lessons which that court put forward in 1560 have been forgotten in the 1970s by the Australian High Court which, instead of trying to interpret the tax avoidance provisions in taxation legislation in accordance with their reason and intention, has adopted a very legalistic approach which has allowed these avoidance schemes to proliferate. Therefore, in the case of the Federal Commissioner of Taxation v. South Australian Battery Makers Pty Ltd,  Mr Justice  Murphy demonstrated some of the skills which have commended him to so many Australian people. He had a good common sense approach. The High Court itself must take a large share of the responsibility for creating a situation in which there is a general threat to the equity of our entire taxation system and a real threat to Government revenue. Let there be no mistake about it. I believe that there is a real threat to the cohesion of our society posed by the proliferation of the tax avoidance schemes that we have seen in recent years. 
The fact is that the tax burden in our community has been shifting inexorably away from the professional classes towards the payasyouearn taxpayer, the ordinary wage or salary earner who does not have access to the type of advice which enables him to take advantage of the schemes which are attacked in the Bill before us tonight. That creates a situation within the community where many persons feel that they are paying tax unnecessarily while others avoid paying tax by taking the advice of brains which have been perverted to serve the selfish interests of those who do not want to contribute to the national coffers. This creates a feeling of unfairness. There can be no doubt that because of such schemes the revenue has suffered to the tune of several hundreds of millions of dollars. 
What this means is that some people who take advantage of our democratic and parliamentary system and who live in a representative democracy with all the advantages which it confers on them, are not prepared to pay for the services which they expect this Parliament to provide in the community. I believe that in both those ways the High Court has attacked the necessary cohesion which is required in the tax paying community for a sense of fairness to pervade and, therefore, for the money to flow freely as it ought in a situation where fairness is thought to prevail in the Treasury. A major factor in the inequity of which I speak has been the proliferation of quite artificial trading trusts which were condemned in the Treasury on 3 November 1977 to which attention has already been drawn. I am not going to elaborate on that. I believe it must still be the case that such trusts are still attractive as a means of income splitting. The Opposition is sorry to see that in this legislation there is no indication of a fully fledged attack being mounted on this device and its use in an artificial way. 
On the whole, the Opposition does not wish to appear inactive, nor is it inactive with regard to this Bill. We think it contains some very good proposals but we have some general constructive views which we wish to put to the Government and to the community in relation to tax avoidance schemes. Firstly, we say that there ought to be a very fundamental restructuring of section 260 of the Act which attempts to outlaw tax avoidance schemes. 
We may hear of that from the Minister. We need to have a provision which effectively gives the commissioner a catch-all reply to the tax avoidance profession. Ad hoc dealings with abuses, as I brought to the attention of the Government, await analysis over a period of time and just lead to a cat and mouse game between the tax avoidance and revenue. A sort of sporting contest develops between the two. The only people who can take advantage of the situation are those privileged taxpayers who can afford to pervert some of the best brains of our country in the accountancy and legal profession into serving thier selfish interests against the community's general interest in having a fair taxation system with a reasonable flow of money to revenue. What we need- and I am pleased if it is the case, as  Senator Watson  has indicated- is a new type of section 260, not only in order to bring clarity into the situation where the High Court has sowed anarchy and confusion but also to enable this Parliament once again to state quite clearly and firmly that in its view tax avoidance schemes ought to be outlawed. We ought to be able to say quite simply that, when a transaction is entered into with the dominant intention objectively viewed of avoiding, evading or defeating the provisions of taxation legislation or altering the incidence of taxation, such a transaction should be ineffective as a way of avoiding taxation. If we could say that once again as a Parliament it would be, I believe, a very foolhardy High Court which would then attempt to water down by legalistic interpretation this new statement of the firm view of the elected representatives of the ordinary taxpayers in this country. To that end, the Opposition presents two suggested drafts of a new section 260. 1 seek leave to have those suggested redrafts of section 260 incorporated in  Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Have the appropriate arrangements been made? 
I showed the drafts to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  He agreed to their incorporation. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  That is an instance of the Opposition trying to take a constructive attitude to this topic and putting on the public record its views as to how section 260 might be redrafted to state this Parliament's view which is indicated in a piecemeal way in the Bill before us. 
The second point that the Opposition has been making over the last six to eight months is that the Treasurer should be stronger in his adoption of retrospective effect in laws catching up with these attempts to avoid proper payments to revenue. The parasites in our community need to be made to understand that legislation such as we are passing tonight will be backdated to the first day on which the Treasurer announces his decision to deal with a particular scheme. In this case, the Bill tonight is dealing with matters which the Treasurer said he would deal with on 19 April, some 10 months ago. 
The Opposition thinks that we can be more robust than that and that such legislation ought to be backdated to the beginning of the financial year in which the income concerned was being earned, in this case for example to 1 July last year. Even more, it may be that in certain instances the legislation ought to be backdated to the date of the creation of a scheme. There have been suggestions that this is incompatible with the ordinary liberties of citizens- taxpayers- but this is clearly compatible with the practice in a country which has given us our normal sense of abhorrence for retrospective legislation. I refer to the United Kingdom. 
In relation to these matters in England both the judiciary and the Parliament have recognised that the whole of society- its vitality, its provisioning with funds, its sense of fairnessand this whole bundle of matters concerned with taxation are at stake and of far greater moment than the usual stricture against retrospectivity. It is well known that the Master of the Rolls,  Mr Justice  Green in 1942 indicated the judiciary's view that retrospective legislation in regard to tax matters was compatible with the normal protection by common law judges of citizens against legislation of a penal character. Of course, United Kingdom budgets very commonly contain the sorts of provisions with which we are dealing tonight. What the Opposition says is that the Treasurer ought not be afraid to be more robust in his approach and to backdate this legislation at least to the beginning of the financial year in which the income concerned was being earned. We need to face this concerted attack on our revenue with every weapon at our disposal and we should not be afraid to use retrospectivity in this narrow but vital area. 
Thirdly, I come to the question of the advertising of these schemes. I must admit that my comments reflect a rather more personal obsession. I am filled with disgust every time I see an advertisement promoting these tax avoidance schemes. I remember that last year, on the very day when a prominent national newspaper contained an article about further measures to block tax avoidance schemes, it also contained an advertisement which promoted such schemes. The main headline in the newspaper- I think it was the  Australian- read:  'Howard's assault on tax avoidance game'. However, on page three of that newspaper one found an advertisement with the heading: 'Total Tax Wipe-Out'. The advertisement went on to state that a particular publication: 
. has first details of a new tax plan which can totally wipe out income tax. 
It can be used by salaried executives, professionals, companies and almost any income situation. 
It is one of the neatest and safest tax plans we have seen. It is so good it may possibly outstrip the legendary Curran scheme. 
And so it went on. The promoters had the gall to put that advertisement in the national Press. But in my view it is more than gall or daring. It is totally immoral. It is against public morality. It is subversive of good government in that it is a direct attack on revenue and on the sense of fairness within the community. We should drive the promoters of these schemes- the advertiserswell underground. I believe that there is power within the Commonwealth to ensure that between the tax power, the broadcasting power and the interstate trade and commerce power we could prohibit this sort of anti-social advertising. 
Those are three ways in which the Opposition believes that in general the approach of the Government could be strengthened. But on the whole we regard this Bill, whilst it is piecemeal, as being a measure which we endorse and support. That being the case, I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
I raise very briefly the question of a Senate standing committee report which the Government has neglected to act upon with the haste, or at least with the decent speed, that we were told such reports would be responded to by the Government. On 25 May last year, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced that henceforth all standing committee reports would receive a response from the Government which would be made known to the Parliament within six months. On 2 June 1978, the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs entitled 'Priority of Crown Debts' was brought into this chamber. Whilst nine months have elapsed, as yet no response has been forthcoming from the Government. 
It is not as though the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in particular has not been aware of the concern of many members of this chamber over this particular report. In midNovember of last year I asked the AttorneyGeneral when we could expect a response from the Government. At that time he said that whilst a response was unlikely within the week, nevertheless he would ensure that the six-month deadline was met. Given the time that we had during the summer parliamentary recess, that should have entailed a response by the Government in the first sitting week of the present session. But that did not occur. 
It may seem that a report on the priority of Crown debts is a rather esoteric legal subject of no great significance, but in fact it is a matter which I know from contacts in my home State of Tasmania is of great concern, not only to chambers of commerce but to trade unions. What happens at the moment is that in the case of an insolvency or a bankruptcy, Telecom Australia or the Commissioner of Taxation or some other Commonwealth agency comes in and takes priority in the distribution of assets which by definition are very meagre, and make their claim over and above and certainly before, those claims which are properly made by ordinary unsecured traders who have dealt in good faith with the insolvent company or with the bankrupt, which is the concern of the chambers of commerce. Also Commonwealth agencies take priority over ordinary employees who find that they are unable to get accumulated long service leave entitlements, holiday pay or annual leave entitlements because the Commonwealth has decided at that point that it is in the interests of the community that the Commonwealth coffers be filled before trading debts or obligations that an employer has to an employee are met. 
That is why it requires a response from the Attorney-General and from the Government to the Senate Standing Committee report. What I am concerned about is that with the delay now in the autumn session, this particular matter may be put off until the Budget session. Of course, in the whole context of raising revenue for necessary government expenditure and given the difficulty which we know the Government faces in that regard, it may be that this is a matter of justice, fairness and equity to employees and ordinary traders will become swamped in considerations of raising revenue for government, not that this particular priority raises much more than $6m or $8m for government. In fact the giving up of this priority may not have a very significant effect on government revenue because if ordinary traders and employees can recover their commercial debts and annual leave and long service leave payments, I believe that would create a situation in which the revenue would do very well out of the fact that these ordinary traders would not have so many bad debts and employees would of course have spending power within the community. For those reasons I raise this matter again and ask the Attorney-General to indicate whether the Government has come to a decision and will act in the next few weeks- certainly in this autumn session- in order to remedy what I think is acknowledged by all sections of the Australian community to be a situation which works unfairly against small traders and employees of insolvents and bankrupts. 
The Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be aware of the concern of many members of the Parliament and the community at the continued destruction of the Eritrean peoples by Ethiopian forces directed by Soviet military personnel. I ask the Minister: What political and humanitarian response is the 
Government making to this tragedy? In particular, will the Australian Government assist in the transport of medical and food supplies to points in the Horn of Africa from which voluntary agencies can distribute relief to the victims of war within Eritrea. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development and the Minister for 
Business and Consumer Affairs. Did the national Government request certain oil companies to play down the seriousness of Australia's oil supply and cost problems resulting from the crisis in Iran, thus misleading the Australian public? Did certain oil companies respond to this request by giving undertakings to the Government to avoid public panic by understating the crisis? Subsequently, have certain companies claimed that this has inhibited their applications to the Prices Justification Tribunal? Has the national Government now agreed to forward a case to the PJT on behalf of these private corporations? Finally and most importantly, was the agreement of the Government to go to the PJT part of the original arrangement for the oil companies not to present the true picture to the Australian public? If not, why does the Government feel obliged to lend its weight to the oil price rise application? 
I move: 
That the Senate notes with concern the lack of action by the Australian Government to relieve Australian citizens of the disadvantages of dual nationality, particularly as experienced in visiting former homelands, and urges the Government speedily to implement the recommendations contained in the Report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on Dual Nationality, tabled in the Senate on 14 October 1976. 
Every year thousands of migrants to this country decide to adopt Australian citizenship. When doing so, at a ceremony which must be full of emotion and great gravity for them, these new citizens either by oath or affirmation make a declaration in the following terms: 
I will faithfully observe the laws of Australia and fulfil my duties as an Australian citizen. 
It is obvious that those words signify a very significant alteration to the outlook of the new citizen of a country which until then has given him or her some protection and opportunity. Henceforth, in addition to that, such a person is not merely a resident, but becomes a citizen. 
But just before giving that very important undertaking to observe faithfully the laws of Australia and fulfil his or her duties as an Australian citizen, the new citizen states that he or she renounces all other allegiance. I suppose the burden of the matter I raise tonight is that that renunciation, those solemn words, made at the behest of the Australian community during that ceremony of citizenship, are totally ineffectual, besides in many cases being emotionally very demanding on the new citizen. Apart from that, they are totally ineffectual in that the renunciation of any former allegiance makes no impact on the claim which that new citizen's former nation may wish to make upon him. In particular, such a new citizen may well find himself with two nationalities- that of his new country, Australia, and that of his former homeland. Simply stated, that is the problem of dual nationality. 
For some new citizens the retention of the former nationality may be beneficial for various reasons. For example, it may be that an Australian citizen who migrated here from the United Kingdom would feel happy to retain dual nationality in that revisiting the United Kingdom would be much more simple. Better employment opportunities may be available in the country of his former nationality if that former nationality is retained. Access to social benefits from that nation may also be retained. There are very many advantages which can accrue to certain persons retaining the nationality of their former homeland. 
Whilst that would be the case for some, for very many dual nationality becomes a curse and a burden. The fact is that for very many Australian citizens dual nationality is extremely serious and even fatal in one sense. The essence of the problem is that when such a person returns to his former homeland he is denied the protection of the Australian Government although he is a citizen of Australia. The Australian Government is precluded from offering consular protection to such an Australian citizen whilst in the other country of his dual nationality. 
All honourable senators will be aware that in the mid 1970s- around 1975- this matter was brought dramatically to the attention of the Australian community by the Yugoslav Government's refusal to allow Australian diplomats access to Australian citizens held in detention for several months. That Government even executed Australian citizens who held Yugoslav nationality. It did so without informing the Australian Government. That was a very disturbing incident. Luckily, I think that incident is unique in the sense that to my knowledge executions without the Australian Government being informed have not occurred in any other nation of former nationality of any Australian citizens. 
However, any simple file of newspaper clippings will reveal other heartbreaking situations. I have three newspaper clippings, one of which is headed 'Federal help in Viennese custody case'. It was found to be impossible.  Mr Grassby,  the then Minister for Immigration, spoke of dual nationality being 'one of the curses of citizenship around the world'. That curse is still operative and affecting the lives of many Australian citizens. Another heading is 'Australian jailed in Greece '. In part, the article reads: 
A naturalised Greek-born Australian was expected to be court-martialled next month in Athens for failing to undergo military service with the Greek Army. 
This Australian citizen had come to Australia as an 18-year old, had returned to Greece as a 28-year old for a visit to his former village and was facing court-martial without the protection of Australian Government officials in Greece. The third heading is 'Australian envoys' problems'. The article begins: 
An Australia . . . arrested in Argentina earlier this year, and brutally interrogated after the explosion of a bomb hidden in luggage on a bus during a customs check. 
Repeated requests by the two men for contact with Australian . . . officials were not passed on by the Argentine authorities. 
Australian consular authorities however, were alerted by news agency reports of the incident and made urgent inquiries. However, they were given no information until a week later. 
Those articles are only three of a very thick file of newspaper clippings which reveal that the problem of dual nationality is one which seriously affects Australian citizens when they return to their former homelands. Of course, this has an intimidatory effect which prevents many of our citizens doing what anyone would wish to doreturn to our former homeland or village, our families and our relatives, to see the scenes of our youth and childhood. 
It is obvious that the Australian Government should be pressing vigorously for a single simple principle to be adopted within the international community. A person should hold only one nationality and be able to renounce in an appropriate way his former nationality. Instead, what do we find? The report from the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, presented to this Parliament on 14 October 1976- two and a half years ago- recommended that Australia should initiate action within the United Nations to renew efforts to resolve nationality problems. Despite that, in the face of that recommendation of the Joint Committee - a bipartisan committee- we have a tired, languid, even unconcerned statement by the interdepartmental committee stating that the International Law Commission of the United Nations should not be asked to make this a high priority matter because there is every likelihood that no positive results would follow. In paragraph 2 1 the interdepartmental committee states: 
. there is no evidence that States - 
That is, international states-  are more prepared to forego their discretion to determine the nationality of their citizens than they were in 1 954. 
That plainly is wrong. Both the Western European community, in the Council of Europe Convention in 1968, and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, with bilateral arrangements with its Eastern European allies in the late and mid 1950s, have demonstrated considerable willingness to forego their claims on former nationals who wish to voluntarily renounce the nationality concerned. 
A split infinitive in the cause of Australian citizens is forgiveable. I do get emotional about this matter because, as the examples I cited to the chamber illustrate, it has a very severe impact on many people who go through Australia's citizenship ceremony and therefore expect the protection of the Australian Government when they travel abroad, particularly to their former homelands. My major objection is that if this interdepartmental committee attitude becomes government policy we will have a period of quiet, a period of indifference. The resolution of this matter will await years of bilateral negotiations, say, with the Italian Government or the Argentinian Government, from time to time. I believe that this is a matter which needs to come before multilateral forums, most especially those under the auspices of the United Nations. I believe that it is in multilateral negotiations that those governments which continue to exert a tyrannical claim on their former nationals, those governments which remain indifferent to the plight of their nationals who migrate and settle, perhaps for a 10, 20 or 30-year period, ought to be isolated and thereby brought to a more generous and just understanding of the situation. It is not as though there are not many models from which to choose. 
The East European model followed by the USSR and its allies is roughly to assume that the sole nationality follows residence between the nations concerned. Thus, on moving from the USSR to Hungary, a person who obtains citizenship of Hungary would automatically lose his status as a Soviet national unless he expressed a choice of citizenship of the USSR. That choice could be rejected or accepted by the USSR authorities. In any case, one nationality is the desire and the end. Is there any evidence that this Government is seeking to conclude like arrangements with the USSR or its Eastern European allies in respect to Australian citizens who could be expected not to exercise the choice of nationality of their former homeland? The Soviets and East Europeans- I cite them because of their obvious relevance- have devised a very civilised technique. All one would need to have is a vigorous program by the Australian Government, a diplomatic offensive, to see that that technique is afforded to Australian citizens who have a former homeland in the USSR or Eastern Europe. 
On the other hand, the democratic European countries which are party to the 1963 Council of Europe Covention adopt a- somewhat different and in fact more difficult approach. A person needs to seek the consent of the state whose nationality he wishes to renounce. Even so, the former homeland may not withhold consent if the person concerned has not been resident there for 10 years or more and is ordinarily resident in the state whose nationality he wishes to retain. Australia should seek immediately to accede to that Council of Europe Convention. I cannot for the life of me understand why successive Australian governments, and particularly this Government, in the face of the report to this Parliament by the Joint Committee, have allowed the opportunity to pass for 21/2 years since the report was tabled, and in fact for 2 1 years since the Council of Europe Convention was brought into operation in March 1968. In respect of the Western European democracies, we have a perfectly accessible means of assuring that the problems of dual nationality do not attach to Australian citizens who come from those European democracies. 
I have had this matter on the Notice Paper since 15 November- some four months agoand it has put the Government on notice. I certainly hope to get a response from the Minister tonight. If not, one can only conclude- certainly those who fear to return to their homelands can only conclude- that this Government is indifferent to their plight. The time has long passed for pious declarations about the desirability of single Australian nationality for a citizen. What is required is action, and so far there is no evidence of it. 
I turn for a moment from the action that this Government should take on the international level, which it appears to have been woefully slow in taking, to the question of allegations that within Australia our citizens can be subjected to harassment or other invasions of privacy by persons claiming to represent their former countries. Clearly, it is impossible to substantiate the incidence or scale of such harassment- harassment that allegedly goes beyond access that consular officials of the country of the other nationality properly might have. 
Let us look at the Committee's assessment of how these allegations should be dealt with. At page 4 of its report the Committee said: 
For those who believe that they are being harassed and are suffering from other forms of invasion of their privacy, the Committee recommends that machinery should exist where complaints of this nature may be lodged by the individuals concerned, with the assurance that the complaint will be examined and wherever proven, whatever action can be taken through diplomatic channels will be pursued. It appears that the Office of the Commissioner of Community Relations would be the appropriate office to accept this task. 
As far as I have been able to ascertain, no approach has been made to the Commissioner for Community Relations to find out how or even whether he might undertake this task. I cannot say whether his office would be the best means of sorting out these allegations of harassment, which possibly would be few in number; but clearly the Committee thought that the type of investigative and conciliatory approach which characterises the Office of the Commissioner for Community Relations is a type in which the aggrieved Australian citizen of dual nationality could have confidence. What is more,  Mr Grassby  's office is well known throughout the ethnic community. That general awareness alone could well make it the most appropriate machinery, but no approach has been made. 
Having failed to establish adequate machinery to allow harassed dual nationals to disclose confidentially their predicament, the Department of Foreign Affairs is enabled to say, in its indifferent way, in the IDC report- I quote from paragraph 10 on page 3: 
The Department of Foreign Affairs is not aware of any significant instances in recent rimes of harassment in Australia of dual national Australian citizens by representatives of their former country. 
Of course it is not aware. The machinery that might raise its awareness, along with that of other government agencies, is not established and has not been sought to be established within the office of the Commissioner for Community Relations, as the parliamentary Committee's report suggests it ought to be. Thus is so evidently a circular argument on the part of the Department of Foreign Affairs that it raises questions about the seriousness with which that Department has approached its task of advising the Government on a possible response to the Joint Committee's report. To the extent that it has received bad advice, inadequate advice, uncompassionate advice from the Public Service, the Government's response to date- namely, a monumental silence- can be understood but it cannot be excused. 
The Senate ought to require of the Government a major effort immediately to respond to the plight of many of our fellow citizens. The analysis and the recommendations of the Joint Committee are  2Vi  years old. The Government must be condemned for its tardy and inadequate response. I hope that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  who is now in the chamber, can indicate a change of heart and of tempo in this important matter. As I speak, I become aware of how moderate are the terms in which I have couched this motion. Instead of condemning the Government, I have merely asked the Senate to note with concern the lack of response by the Government. In couching the motion in those terms, which perhaps are too moderate for the occasion, I feel that honourable senators from both sides of the chamber may join in requesting that the Government make a very speedy response to the plight of many of our citizens. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for National Development agree that in view of the Iranian and Harrisburg crises it is about time that some urgency was exhibited by the Government in putting forward a coherent energy program for Australia? In view of the publication last week of the far sighted Labor Party Green Paper on energy matters and the favourable editorial comment upon  Mr Keating  's analysis and proposals I ask: When can we expect the Government to produce, belatedly, its own Green Paper? Can the Minister explain why the Government's Green Paper, rumoured to appear yesterday, did not materialise? For how long will the Government lag behind the Labor Party in informing the public of the options in this matter? 
I think it is necessary to remember precisely what we are talking about in this debate. We are talking about a proposal of the Government to permit an organisation which will not be answerable to the Parliament to put Australian citizens under surveillance. All the Opposition is saying in seeking the deletion of the word 'ultimately' from clause 5 (1) (a) is that there is enough discretion and there are enough elements of judgment vested in the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and its officers in making the judgment that some activity which does not of itself involve violence, which does not involve or lead to violence, which is not even intended to lead to violence, is likely to lead to violence. 
That is quite enough. The responsibility for making that sort of judgment is a wide discretion to place in the hands of ASIO. It is something which does not have as its purpose the violent or unlawful overthrowing of a government. Nevertheless, because it is likely to lead to the violent or unlawful overthrowing of a government, it is said that it ought to be regarded as subversive. 
The fact is that the words 'likely to' give to the Organisation a very wide discretion in putting under surveillance the activities of Australian citizens. What does that mean? What do the words 'intends to lead to violence' mean? How does one make that judgment? Does one make it by reference to like activities which have invariably led to the violent or unlawful overthrowing of a government? It would seem unlikely that an organisation would have enough evidence to make a judgment on that. Is it a judgment that in this particular case- despite the fact that that activity normally does not lead to the unlawful or violent overthrowing of a government- exceptionally, in the judgment of ASIO, it will? 
But to add to that discretion- namely, the permitting of an ASIO officer to make a judgment that an activity which is not itself involving violence, which is not intended to involve violence but which may be likely to lead to violence- the element of 'ultimately' leading to violence seems to me to be asking the ASIO officer, as  Senator Button  pointed out, to engage in tremendous powers of foresight and prophecy because he has to look at an activity now and make the judgment that in some supposed chronological sequence of events it will lead to the violent or unlawful overthrowing of a government. We say simply that the activity that is proposed as the event which leads to a person being put under surveillance ought to be more closely, more proximately, linked to the violent or unlawful overthrowing of a government. 
The word 'ultimately' allows too much scope for the imagination of ASIO and its officers. We believe it will lead to surveillance of ordinary innocent activity within Australia; innocent in the sense that the end may be innocent and certainly in that the method sought to change constitutional government is innocent of motives that ought to be achieved by unlawful or violent means. We are talking about the means to constitutional change. If the means outlined as violent or unlawful are shown to be in the contemplation of somebody or about to occur, of course that person ought to be put under surveillance. But that judgment ought not to be made too early in any supposed sequence of events. If it is made too early innocent political activity within Australia will be put under surveillance. That is what the Opposition objects to. 
I should like to bring to the attention of honourable senators the activities of a Federal agency in my area of the north-west coast of Tasmania which put in jeopardy the Tasmanian orcharding industry during the recent recess. The events that I shall outline will sound incredible. However, I emphasise that the agency concerned, the Industrial Relations Bureau, sought to exert itself in relation to the industry most sensitive and most vulnerable to disruption and dislocation during the autumn and particularly during April. lt is well known that the orcharding industry in Tasmania has had its fair share of problems. Reconstruction has occurred over the past few years on a much reduced basis compared with the industry's great heyday during the 1950s and the early 1960s. But by sheer hard work, by seeking to maintain markets in the European Economic Community against all the odds, by seeking to create new markets in east Asia and by achieving good working relations between growers and employees in the orchards, a recovery is well under way. The magnitude of the present operation can be seen when honourable senators understand that last year about 1,067,000 cases of apples were exported overseas and about 1,020,000 cases were exported interstate. Yet hallway through a very short seven-week picking and packing season an officer of the Industrial Relations Bureau walked into the orchards of the Mersey Valley, which is about six miles from office, and served ultimatums on eight growers requiring them to pay 14c per hour more to packing shed employees. Honourable senators can imagine the consternation that this caused growers and employees of the industry which at that time was three weeks into the season. It was a critical time during the season. 
Some weeks earlier the Australian Workers Union, which is the responsible union, circulated to growers as a service and as was its practice a memorandum of the obligations of growers under the fruitgrowing industry award, as it is generally called. This method of alerting growers to the requirements of the award was an established practice. The Tasmanian Stockowners and Orchardists Association knew and approved of this method of alerting growers to their obligations and the growers appreciated the practice. There is a good relationship between the AWU and growers. Indeed, 95 per cent of growers are quite happy to deduct union dues from employees' wage packets. The employees also are quite happy with this sytem. 
On the basis of the memorandum which was circulated at the beginning of the season by the AWU, growers were paying their employees in the sheds $3.78 per hour. Notwithstanding this harmonious, no-dispute situation, an officer of the Industrial Relations Bureau came in and grossly misread the award. After a cursory glance at the books and without talking to the employees or the growers in the Mersey Valley, he served ultimatums, mistakenly called notices to comply, on eight orchardists. As I have said, this was done without any consultation with, let alone any courteous notification to, the AWU or the Tasmanian Stockowners and Orchardists Association. Unilaterally, off its own bat, the IRB created friction and industrial disharmony, the very situation which it was allegedly created to prevent. 
It has been claimed by Liberal apologists in my State that this was the isolated act of some inexperienced employee, but the facts as they have emerged show that it was the corporate act of the Industrial Relations Bureau acting through a very experienced employee. From conversations with  Mr Rob  MacLaughlin, the southern organiser of the AWU, the IRB knew two weeks before these events I have outlined that the AWU sent this memorandum to growers. The IRB officer concerned, who operates out of Burnie, has been on the industrial scene for some 20 years, so he is no rookie acting in an over-zealous manner. This was an IRB operation. The fact that it was an IRB operation has been confirmed by the Bureau's stubborn refusal to admit error well beyond the point where any reasonable man would have admitted that an officer in the field had somehow got the award wrong. He did get it wrong. Eventually the ultimatums were withdrawn. 
If I am correct in seeing the IRB's persistence with this creating of turmoil and conflict as deliberate, certain questions arise: Why did the IRB select the most isolated and smallest growing area of the State for this try-on? I say 'smallest growing area' because only 35,000 cases are sent overseas from the Mersey Valley and some 73,000 cases are sent interstate. We should compare these figures with those of the great growing areas- the Huon and Geeveston areas in southern Tasmania- from which something like 981,000 cases are sent overseas and 832,000 cases are sent interstate. Was the area selected because the Mersey Valley is a long distance from the AWU office in Hobart? The AWU office in Hobart is only a short drive from the more concentrated and larger orchards to the south of Hobart in the Huon and Geeveston areas. Was it hoped that the north-west growers would succumb quickly in order to ensure a smooth passage through the season so that the IRB could confront growers, employees and the union in the other areas of Tasmania with a fait accompli? 
Why did the IRB, allegedly created in order to ensure compliance with awards, completely bypass at least the spirit of the fruit industry award? It by-passed the spirit of the agreed procedures for settling disputes. The IRB was deliberately creating a dispute situation. It was saying that employers were refusing to pay, as they were bound to under the award, their employees an extra 14c an hour. Under the award there are well known, common procedures for dealing with disputes. Committees of reference can be established. Conferences can be called around a table. None of these procedures was availed of by the IRB. Instead, it unilaterally threatened employers in the Mersey Valley and did not comply with the spirit of the procedures laid down in the award to deal with disputes. No consultation took place around the table. This in itself shows, I believe, that the IRB had been given its head by a government which is keen to create industrial unrest, to exacerbate industrial unrest and to cause industrial unrest in order to justify its laying the blame for the ills in our economy at the feet of the unions. 
Unfortunately, the target of the IRB operation- the Australian Workers Union in Tasmania- proved to be too well known to the Tasmanian public for its integrity, its fairmindedness and its genuine concern that there be employment in the orcharding industry not only this year but also in years to come, and too well known for the respect that it had obtained on both sides of the industry, to be a target that would fall to this operation mounted by the IRB. Anyone who knows anything about industrial relations in Tasmania, and no doubt elsewhere, will know that the personalities and attitudes of union officials as they become known over the years are very important to the harmony of any industrial situation. Pat McNally had built up the AWU's presence in the orchards in previous years. At the moment Bob MacLaughlin, the southern organiser of the AWU, and John Butler, the State Secretary, have established credibility as men of their word. It was only that credibility and that integrity which held the situation together in our orchards over the recent recess. 
That brings me to the final question which I pose, to which I seek an answer and which, I admit, probably contains the only plausible explanation for this misguided- I use the term advisedly- operation mounted by the IRB. The fact that the question probably contains the answer does not make it rhetorical. As 1 say, I would be obliged to have an answer. Was this operation designed to undermine the credibility of the AWU amongst the workers and, for that matter, the employers in the orcharding industry in Tasmania? Was it designed to weaken the support which the union had amongst employees in the industry so that membership might fall away with all the consequences that has and all the ramifications that entails for voting strength on other bodies to which the AWU is affiliated? Can there be any other explanation for the IRB adhering obstinately over a period of almost three weeks to a misinterpretation and misapplication of a clause of the award which made it appear that the union was remiss in not pressing for the extra 14c per hour which is allegedly payable under the award? 
The ultimatum, which was due to expire on Friday, 20 April, was withdrawn unreservedly at the last moment, but there was no generous or even fair acknowledgement of the correct attitude taken by the AWU to the award and no admission of error on the part of the IRB. That is surely the least we could have expected from an honourable and well-motivated Federal agency. It is not forthcoming. The conclusion can be only that the IRB in its Tasmanian operation at leastand I am speaking as a Tasmanian senator- has acted dishonourably and was ill-motivated. In short, I believe that two or three weeks ago we in Tasmania were confronted with a misguided attempt to create questions on behalf of its members as to the integrity and efficiency of a moderate and well-regarded union- the AWU. This was done with no regard whatever for the disruption to our orcharding industry which may well have ensued had the matter not been exposed to the public by the Tasmanian media. A Federal agency was prepared to jeopardise the present and future position of our orchards to exhibit its prowess as an operator in the field of industrial relations. Therefore, I certainly do not regard it as an overreaction on my part to have sent a telex to the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  on 12 April. I will not read the whole of it to the Senate, but in the last paragraph when summing up I put this to the Minister: 
I suggest it would be in harmony with your often stated objective of achieving good relations between employer and employee, that you withdraw the IRB from the Tasmanian industrial scene. 
I expected every Tasmanian Federal politician to be as worried as 1 was by the activities of this Federal agency. Therefore, I wrote to each Tasmanian member of the Federal Parliament on 20 April calling on them to join with me in approaching the Minister for Industrial Relations. I quote from the last paragraph of that letter which reads as follows: 
I therefore call on you to join with me in approaching the Minister for Industrial Relations.  Mr Street,  in order to obtain the early withdrawal of the Bureau from Tasmania. 
I believe that this proposal merits a non-partisan support, in the same spirit as was shown by the orchardists and shed hands in their united rebuttal of the  lRB's  uncalled for intervention in their good working relationship. 
Needless to say, my colleagues in the Labor Party have indicated their support for that call.  Senator Harradine  indicated his support. 
That is what we are aiming to do.  Senator Button  will not be surprised to know that those Liberal members of Parliament who deigned to answer- and at this stage I have received no reply from Senators Archer and Townley or from  Mr Hodgman-  have taken the line that the whole matter is due to the intemperate actions of one officer of the Bureau. 1 regard that as a most cowardly attack on a public servant who is unable to reply. But apart from that, I have already indicated, I believe, the falsity of that dichotomy between an officer and the IRB. The fact is that that officer was an experienced officer of the IRB and his action obtained its unequivocal support until the bitter end. 
Even if the Minister perhaps rejects my call for the withdrawal of the IRB from Tasmania- and at present I am still awaiting a reply from him to my telex- I believe that the people of Tasmania have had well demonstrated to them the true colours of this Industrial Relations Bureau. Tasmanians will be well positioned to make a sound judgment on this creature of the Fraser Government as it flexes its muscles, taking its cue from the Cabinet in the weeks and months to come. I believe that as Australians everywhere become aware that this Industrial Relations Bureau is operated to a program destructive of and not conducive to industrial harmony they will join Tasmanians in calling for its utter removal from our midst. 
Can the Minister representing the Prime Minister and the Treasurer confirm a report in today's Press that a four-day visit to Australia in June by Princess Anne will cost the Australian taxpayer some $25,000? Does this follow close on the heels of expenditure exceeding $100,000 to enable the Duke and Duchess of Gloucester to escape the rigours of the northern winter? I ask, and in doing so I expressly exclude visits by Her Majesty the Queen of Australia or Prince Phillip or Prince Charles: What has been the total cost of the parasitical wanderings of other members of the Royal Family to and within Australia? 
-The Opposition is pressing this amendment, which admittedly is of an unusual kind. We are asking the Attorney-General to exhaust every other legal and practicable means of obtaining information before he issues a warrant. After all, the Opposition would not have pressed this amendment had the Government accepted earlier proposals put forward in good faith by the Opposition in order to ensure that an organisation of integrity emerges as a result of the passage of this legislation. 
Let me remind honourable senators of the three main areas of opposition from this side of the chamber to the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill. The first category relates to accountability. The Government rejected our very reasonable proposal as to accountability to the Parliament directly through an annual report containing the numbers of warrants issued in relation to various sectors such as listening devices, opening of mail and so on. It rejected our proposal that provision for a judicial audit be written into the Bill. The proposal would have ensured fair-minded judicial scrutiny of the actual day-to-day operations and files of ASIO. Our proposal for a financial audit was rejected. Our proposal that the Minister be more closely informed by the Director-General was rejected. All our reasonable proposals were rejected, including of course the proposal that the Leader of the Opposition be provided with the annual report of ASIO, that such a provision be written into the Bill, so that the furnishing of the annual report be not merely dependent upon the goodwill of the incumbent of the day. All our proposals to make ASIO more accountable to the Australian people, because it exercises these extraordinary powers, were rejected. 
The second main category of our objection to the Bill as drafted was as to the event which triggers the exercise of these extraordinary powers. We put to the Government proposals to tighten up the definition of what constitutes subversive activity. We found that the proposals, rather than being accepted by the Government, were rejected. We were left convinced that innocent political activity- innocent, that is, either of ending in violent overthrow of a government or of means which were violent- could come under the definition of surveillance activity. In rejecting that amendment the Government, as honourable senators will recall, has left an officer of ASIO with power to look at an activity at a certain time and prophesy that ultimately it is likely to lead to a situation of violence, even though it is not intended or a purpose of the current activity. We felt that that position was so dangerous that we were obliged to urge that further constraints concerning the actual exercise of powers be written into the Bill. 
In other words, our three main categories of objection to the Bill- accountability, the trigger mechanism which sets the powers in motion, and the powers themselves- are in a sort of descending order. The greater the accountability, the tighter the definition of subversive activity, the more readily the Opposition might have accepted the exercise of powers as contained in the Bill. But because of the Government's rejection of our accountability proposals, because of the Government's rejection of our suggestion for the tightening of the definition of subversive activity, the Opposition feels obliged to say to the Attorney-General that when warrants are issued to carry out a search of premises of Australian citizens who are not guilty of offences, to open their mail and to intercept telephonic communications, the Attorney ought to satisfy himself that every alternative legal and practicable step has been taken to obtain the information which is sought. 
I totally reject  Senator Puplick  's suggestion made in the debate on this amendment late last Wednesday night that the first law officer of the Crown could say, in accordance with the way the amendment is drafted, that he had been satisfied that all reasonable, practicable and legal steps had been exhausted. Such an approach by the Attorney-General to a statutorily imposed duty needs only to be stated to be rejected. I for one do not believe that an Attorney-General, from whichever side of the chamber he comes, would so lightly regard the duty cast upon him by this amendment. We recognise the amendment to be unusual and onerous, but we contend that it is necessary given the rejection of earlier reasonable amendments put by the Opposition. 
1 would like to reply to  Senator Puplick  's contention. He attempted to bolster his otherwise threadbare argument by claiming to point to the duration of warrants under legislation which he said was within the power ofthe previous Labor Government to amend. Firstly, the answer to that is that such an amendment would probably not have succeeded. It would not have been given passage by this chamber, a chamber which was controlled in those days by a party which, by tonight's performance, has demonstrated that it sees nothing wrong in the duration of warrants authorising the search of an Australian citizen's property, the interception of his mail, or the tapping of his telephone, for a period of six months. So the claim that the Labor Party in coming into this chamber tonight is hypocritical, given its attitude to similar clauses in legislation within its control, is without foundation. We would not have got such an amendment through this chamber. Secondly, and perhaps more importantly, given a greater insight into the nature of the Opposition's concern with this legislation, we, unlike the Government, learn from independent judicial review. 
Just as this party learned from the independent judicial review of  Mr Justice  Fox and the other commissioners that its previous attitude towards the exportation of uranium was illfounded, so we have learned from the Hope report that our previous trust in the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation was equally unfounded. So the Opposition is not acting hypocritically, but I believe with the integrity that comes from reflecting on its past errors, even though they were only errors of omission or errors of being too trusting. As a result of that learning which demonstrates, I believe, our integrity, we come into this chamber and put forward reasonable amendments, in this case saying that where an Australian citizen is to be put under surveillance, his property searched, his mail intercepted, his telephone tapped, the authority should last for no longer than 3 months rather than six months which is proposed in this Bill. 
I direct a question to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as Leader of the Government in the Senate or as Minister representing the Treasurer. The Government will be aware of  President  Carter's recent proposal to levy a windfall profits tax on United States oil companies which are enjoying huge profits as a result of the pricing policy of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The Minister will recall that  President  Carter, in announcing his proposals, stated: 
Even with the windfall-profits tax in place, our oil producers will get substantial new income- enough to provide plenty of incentive for increased domestic production. 
I ask: Has the Government abandoned for ever its 1977 proposal to levy a resources tax? Further, will the Government, in preparing this year's Budget, seriously consider levying a resources tax on certain energy resource enterprises in this country, thus coming into line not only with Labor Party policy but with that of the  President  of the United States? 
The Minister representing the Treasurer will be aware that disputes as to the correct payment of wages or allowances under an award may not be settled in the year or years in which the wages ought to have been paid. This means that upon payment of the due wages in a subsequent year or upon retirement the wage earner has to pay a higher rate of tax on that year's income, supplemented as it is by the lump sum back pay. Can the Government, in formulating the Budget, consider giving relief so that the back pay obtained is allocated to the year of income in which it ought to have been paid, otherwise the after-tax position of the wage earner is seriously disadvantaged? In the meantime, can  Senator Carrick  indicate his sympathy for the plight of those wage earners who, through no fault of their own, receive payment of lawful wages after the year in which they were earned? 
I rise very briefly to reinforce the comments made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in this place,  Senator Button.  The effect of the words which the Attorney wishes to insert in addition to the general accountability provision, which is how the other phrases of the clause to be inserted can be regarded, are applauded by the Opposition. But these particular words, requiring the Leader of the Opposition to exercise secrecy in regard to the report, in our view, in statutory terms, in black and white and as an expression of opinion by the Parliament, imply some lack of confidence in the integrity of the Leader of the Opposition. It is that to which the Opposition very vigorously objects. Whilst this clause makes the pretence of being bipartisan and attempts to give the impression that the Attorney is being as open as he possibly can in permitting the loyal Opposition as it is generally regarded, to have an overview of the activities of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in any one year, this particular inference is made against the Leader of the Opposition. 
I submit that any Leader of the Opposition who was given access to the sort of sensitive material that would be found in an ASIO report would regard himself as being bound by the ordinary conventions as to secrecy. But of course I can give no undertaking that a Leader of the Opposition would always remain silent on some matter which came to his attention solely by way of reading the report of the Director-General of ASIO. Nor indeed can any Minister give an assurance that he will never break the oath of Executive Council secrecy that he might take. 
Well, he can give an assurance. My point is that one can never predict what might happen in the future. It may be that he will see something which he feels compelled in conscience to bring to the attention of the Australian people. 
No, to the Australian people. I believe that as Leader of the Opposition he might find, when reading some aspect of an ASIO report, that the report reveals that ASIO has been persistently wilful in failing to follow up some particular terrorist organisation. It may be revealed that the Minister has refused to act on evidence brought forward by ASIO that some subversive group has infiltrated one of the major political parties. I am just speculating. But it may be that the Leader of the Opposition would feel compelled in conscience to abandon the usual convention as to secrecy which he would otherwise of course willingly undertake and come into the Parliament and reveal to the Australian people what had come to his knowledge. I am simply saying that one can give an undertaking, but no assurance that that undertaking will not be broken in some extreme circumstances can be given. 
My point is that, by putting into statutory form the convention as to secrecy, one will in no way prevent that from happening should the event which triggered this need that the Leader of the Opposition saw to bring the matter to the attention of the Australian people occur. That being the case, I think that this particular amendment is unable to achieve its purpose and is highly offensive. We simply ask that this particular phrase be deleted from the intended amendment. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the Minister for Health. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a speech by  Dr Brian  Morgan, the  chairman  of the college manpower committee of the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons, calling on the Federal Government strictly to control the immigration of doctors? Is it a fact that the inflow of immigrant doctors is now running at 800 a year, equal to the total output of the nation's four largest medical schools? I ask whether the Minister is aware that  Dr Morgan  went on to say: 
If something is not done about the inflow of immigrant doctors, we will have to not only restrict intake but talk about closing medical schools. 
What steps is the Government taking to ensure that the intake of overseas doctors is modified substantially to ensure that the huge expenditure by the Australian community on its medical schools and graduates is justified and their future guaranteed? Will the Government guarantee the people of Tasmania that their medical school will not be undermined by the seemingly unending influx of immigrant doctors? 
-Clause 6 of the Bill deals with sections 16 and 17 of the Principal Act. I want to comment on the lack of a comprehensive definition in the Bill of a justified price. In answer to  Senator Puplick's  interjection, I rise to indicate on behalf of the Australian Labor Party that it has a very fair-minded and defensible view of what constitutes a just price. It is a price that could be justified in hearings before the Tribunal. We say that a price payable by a consumer to an enterprise needs to be such that it enables that com pany to achieve a level of profitability that is sufficient to enable it to maintain an adequate level of investment and employment. We also recognise that a wider social context may need to be taken into account to enable the price to be such as to enable the community as a whole to pursue a relevant and effective antiinflation policy. 
I rise simply to make that comment in answer to a comment by  Senator Puplick.  The Labor Party does not believe and has never believed that the Prices Justification Tribunal should be used as a weapon against private enterprise companies acting within a mixed economy. We do, of course, make a special plea for public enterprise in respect of the continuing vendetta against statutory corporations owned by the Australian public, such as Trans-Australia Airlines. If the Australian Labor Party were in office there is no doubt that it would consider sympathetically a proposal that the Prices Justification Tribunal look at the prices charged by such public corporations. 
-The Bill before the chamber represents the final blow to the function of the Prices Justification Tribunal as a consumer watchdog, and all  Senator Messner's  comments and pleas on behalf of consumers are so much baloney.  His  tears are crocodile tears and no more. The Prices Justification Tribunal was undoubtedly the fairest and possibly the only effective way of providing some control over prices in a peacetime situation. Rather than having a watchdog on behalf of the consumer, we are now presented with an emasculated Prices Justification Tribunal which has been reduced to the status of a lapdog- a lapdog to the executive government of the day. 
I believe that this proposal will rebound on the Government, as I will point out later. The Government will not be able to distance itself from the approval of price increases that will flow into the economy because the Prices Justification Tribunal is now clearly seen to be an instrument of government policy. That is what this series of amendments is all about. It is to reduce the Prices Justification Tribunal, to strip it of its powers as an independent statutory authority, and to make it subservient to the government of the day. 
I believe that this Bill completely undermines the credibility of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs,  Mr Fife.  The consumer affairs aspect of his dual portfolio is rendered absolutely subservient to that aspect designated 'Business'. I will be claiming later, and I hope to substantiate it after the dinner break, that the only honourable course open to such a Minister is to resign. This is no sudden decision on the part of  Mr Fife.  A long war of attrition has been waged by him since he took over the portfolio. It is a war of attrition against the consumers only statutory independent watchdog on the national scene. 
The Prices Justification Tribunal was established by the Labor Government to require companies publicly to justify and argue the case for raising the price of their goods, in the same way as unions publicly are required to justify and argue the case for raising the price of their labour. This Bill is designedly divisive. It creates social disparity between the treatment of capital and labour in a way which reveals the ideological bent of this assault. It is little wonder that trade unions are champing at having to accept that while the wages of their members are determined in significant part by arbitration, firms are to be relatively free to set prices without any automatic notification to an independent statutory authority. If it suits the convenience of the Senate, I will outline after the suspension of the sitting for dinner the history of the sabotage of the PJT by this Government. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension for dinner I was alerting honourable senators to the fact that in the view of the Opposition the Prices Justification Amendment Bill, which is before the chamber at the moment, represents the final blow to the functioning of the Prices Justification Tribunal as a consumers' watchdog. I was pointing out that the Tribunal, which was initiated by the Labor administration under  Mr Whitlam,  at its inception was probably the fairest and certainly the only effective way in which prices could be controlled during peace time. We find now, as a result of a series of pieces of legislation culminating in tonight's Bill, that the Tribunal is being reduced from a consumers' watchdog to a lapdog in the service of the Executive Government of the day. I believe, as I pointed out to honourable senators before dinner, that this Bill thoroughly undermines the credibility of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs in that the aspect of his portfolio dealing with consumer affairs is rendered absolutely subservient to the business interests which have managed to secure his attention. I was saying before dinner that this is no sudden decision on the part of the Government but is the culmination of a long war of attrition which has been fought by  Mr Fife  and the Government since he took over the portfolio some time ago. I was about to outline the history of the sabotage of the Tribunal by the present Fraser Government. 
In July 1 977 the Prices Justification Tribunal had to consider an application by the ColgatePalmolive group for a price increase. This claim for a price increase was based only on higher advertising costs and the Tribunal thought it right and appropriate in examining this claim for a price increase for items used in every household throughout Australia that it ought to distinguish between advertising which was designed to compete with other enterprises on the market, with their soaps, powders and so on, and that advertising which was merely adding to the proliferation of that company's own brands- in other words, advertising directed to brand competition within the Colgate-Palmolive group. After all, in 1974 the Joint Committee on Prices had concluded that in the soap and powder industry there was no substantial price competition in the market, that what competition existed was aimed to enlarge market shares and that the so-called competition had led to excessive advertising, unnecessary proliferation of similar products under different brand names and higher costs and prices, with little benefit to the consumer. 
When the Prices Justification Tribunal attempted to analyse these advertising costs it was confronted with an illegal directive from  Mr Fife  which was issued without any statutory basis within 10 days of his assuming his portfolio as the Minister responsible for consumer affairs. That particular action within 10 days of his assuming his portfolio bought a very strong response from the Australian Federation of Consumers Organisations which quite properly protested at this ministerial instruction which had no statutory basis. So, early in his ministry, within a few days, the Minister responsible for consumer affairs had alienated and shown contempt for one of the more socially conscious lobbies in our society which he, as the Minister responsible for consumer affairs, should have been encouraging. 
We were then given notice- this Bill confirms itthat the Minister, with regard to the consumer affairs aspect of his portfolio, is utterly subservient to the business aspect of his portfolio, or is subservient at least to those business lobbyists who can obtain his ear to intervene in and instruct what is thought to be an independent statutory tribunal. 
What was not understood in that ColgatePalmolive case shows the lack of understanding by this Government of what a prices justification tribunal in Australian society is all about. The Prices Justification Tribunal needs to be strong to prevent abuse of market power. Trade practices legislation alone cannot do this. A small and dispersed market such as the Australian market, with only 1 5 million consumers, may require that only two or three companies operate to achieve economies of scale. In those situations an independent authority is needed more than ever to put under scrutiny the prices charged by those in an oligopolistic position. It is not merely the socially responsible thing to do to instil confidence in consumers; even on the Liberal Government's own premises it is also the sensible thing to do to ensure the best functioning of market economy. 
Having abandoned earlier any support for the PJT as a consumers' watchdog, how did  Mr Fife  see its justifying its existence? It will surprise no one to learn that in his view and in the Government's present view the only function of the PJT is to intimidate those business enterprises which dare to negotiate directly with employees as to the level of wages. I can quite easily verify that statement by pointing to a statement of the Minister of 1 6 August 1 977 when he said: 
I will make it clear to those companies which grant increases outside arbitration they will be referred to the tribunal for inquiry into their price structure. 
He said that there would be no inquiry into the blatantly exorbitant costs of advertising concerning products which enter every Australian home, but that there would be an inquiry into those business operations which dare to negotiate with employees outside the arbitration system. In other words, the PJT is to become completely vulnerable to political pressures and partisan considerations so that it may carry out the Government's policy. What the Government has been unable to do to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission because of its constitutional autonomy, it feels quite free to do to the Prices Justification Tribunal; and that is what this Bill is all about. 
There have been other decisions and other segments of the history of the sabotage of the 
PJT. Honourable senators will recall the PJT's decision on wool broking charges in May 1978- a decision to effect savings of $4.5mwhereby Australia's 90,000 wool-growers were to be relieved of a certain system of commission taking. The PJT was defied by the major wool brokers and got very little comfort from the Minister. It is the PJT, which has so well attempted to look after the interests of our rural industriesone recalls also its excellent report on stevedoring charges- that the Government now wishes to dismantle or leave as a mere skeleton organisation to do its bidding under ministerial direction. 
Oil companies have waged a continuous war against the PJT. Their attitude was perhaps best put in a telegram from the Caltex company to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and various other Ministers about mid-October 1978. The submission by Caltex at that time was reported in the  Australian  of 14 October in an article by John Alexander which said in part: 
A Caltex spokesman said on Friday the company wanted the whole question of oil prices taken away from the PJT and placed in the hands of the Department of National Resources. 
That was in October 1978. Of course, the energy enterprises operating in this country- I did not say 'of this country' because they are invariably responsive to foreign voices and not to those of the Australian people- want to deal in secret with the Ministers and departments. They have now achieved their aim. On 19 October 1978 the Adelaide  Advertiser,  a newspaper which is not one of the more radical journals circulating in the Australian community, stated:   . . the tribunal is firmly and publicly placed under Ministerial control. Thus any guise of an independent arbiter of prices acting in a comparable manner to the independent Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which sets prices for labour has been scrapped. Given that the PJT was approving most of the increases sought and that there was little evidence of its having adverse economic effects, the timing of the changes is puzzling. The impression that the Government is acting in response to vested interests will inevitably gain credence. 
Those comments appeared in an editorial of that newspaper. No honourable senator can doubt the identity of the vested interests that are referred to by the  Advertiser.  The vested interests to which  Mr Fife  responds are not ordinary consumers buying everyday washing and cleaning products. They are not our rural producers purchasing the services of the pastoral and stevedoring companies. Rather they are the providers of the goods and services, who have eventually rid themselves of this troublesome tribunal- except in circumstances in which the Government wants to advance its own peculiar economic policies. Under the Bill the responsibility for calling an inquiry into oil company prices will rest with  Mr Fife.  The oil companies, the providers of goods and services, will have achieved their end. I predict that such monitoring as goes on will be no more than the collating of figures supplied by the companies themselves, and certainly will do nothing to stem the relentless increase in the price of petrol which this Government has pursued as a policy. Since it came to office, the price of petrol has doubled. 
As honourable senators will appreciate there is a pattern in all of this. Whether it be the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, the Industries Assistance Commission, the Industries Assistance Commission, the Temporary Assistance Authority or the Trade Practices Commission, the Government is determined to eliminate any independent forces at work within the economy. It is a frightening prospect that a Cabinet that is manifestly insensitive to the needs and aspirations of millions of Australians should now deliver every Australian consumer into the unrestrained hands of the commercial enterprises, private and public, of this country. I say private and public commercial enterprises because I  would have had no  objection to a requirement that the PJT be notified of prices to be charged by corporations owned by the Australian public via statutory corporations. Indeed, the PJT itself, in a recent annual report, said that it was capable and willing to complement its role in regard to private enterprise by undertaking the scrutiny of prices charged by public corporations. But rather than come to this chamber and make a significant and valuable addition to the responsibilities of the PJT on behalf of consumers, the so-called Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs has bowed to the propaganda put out by private commercial enterprises and has now rid them of the compulsory notification procedure on prices. It is the notification procedure which is the vital heart of the legislation which, by the passage of this Bill, will be radically altered. I should have thought that it would be obvious that effective prices justification was not possible without a mechanism for notifying the Tribunal of intended price rises. Even surveillance of prices- the watered-down version of the responsibilities of this Tribunal in the context of no notification- represents an empty, ineffective role, and no doubt designedly so. Additionally, the prior notification process represented an important form of discipline over firms because it forced them to consider whether their price increases were in the public interest and could be justified. Even that minor discipline requirement of public accountability on the part of companies which were considering a price rise is now to be abandoned. 
As for the propaganda which  Senator Messner,  from his remarks earlier, has obviously taken to heart- that is, that the Tribunal's procedures were inordinately expensive- let us not forget two factors: Firstly, we are speaking only of firms whose annual turnover is in excess of $30m, firms whose enterprises turn over tens of millions of dollars. In that context, the cost involved to those firms of appearing before a tribunal to discharge their social responsibility to Australia's consumers would be fractional. Can one believe that if these great corporations were acting efficiently they would not have done most of the homework in other forms already? lt seems to me to be incredible to suggest that such companies, which have to inform their subsidiaries, agencies, customers and the like of all price changes, could not meet the extra cost of informing the PJT. Surely great commercial firms with a turnover of more than $30m have to analyse rationally the reasons for price increases. Where is the great cost to them of providing some of that information to the PJT? These are some of the simple tasks which private industry has been asked to undertake, but which have been pictured as putting an intolerable burden upon them. The Government has fallen for the propaganda sweeping the world, which would have it that no government regulation, no public accountability, should be visited upon private enterprise. 
We of the Australian Labor Party, speaking on behalf of the Australian consumers, reject the particular philosophy that is being pursued in this Bill. In short, it represents the capitulation of this Government to those forces within our society which believe that the fair price is what the market will bear- not the price which represents a fair return on capital, which allows funds for further investment to accumulate, and which allows employment opportunities to be created within the enterprise. That is what we call a fair price. 
The Australian Labor Party, as will be seen from its federal platform, is committed to a mixed economy, but it says that those who operate in a mixed economy by way of contributing, accumulations of private capital ought to get a return which will allow them to invest in further capital works and employment opportunities to be created within the enterprise. That seems to me to be fair and reasonable and I fail to understand  Senator Puplick  's intervention. 
This Bill represents the abandonment of the consumers of this nation by a government which in the next breath will encourage consumers to go out and purchase Australian goods so as to stimulate the economy. If consumers lack confidence- a basic ill of our economy- much of the blame must rest on the shoulders of the Minister who is meant to plead their cause in Cabinet. When one examines the Bill, only one honourable course is open to  Mr Fife-  to resign. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  I am advised that the honourable senator intended to move an amendment. Does he wish to proceed with it? 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  for drawing my attention to the need to take a formal step in that regard. Accordingly, I move: 
At end ofthe motion, add but the Senate is of the opinion that- 
by abolishing the requirement for notification of prospective price rises it represents the final destruction ofthe Tribunal's ability to fulfil its original function of ensuring that unjustified price rises are not imposed on the community; 
it is contrary to the Government's supposed basic objective of reducing inflation and is especially inappropriate at a time when inflation is gathering pace; 
the introduction of such legislation at a time when the Government is continuously emphasising the need to prevent wage increases, and is currently seeking means to more effectively implement that policy demonstrates utter insensitivity and naivety in regard to industrial relations and total disregard of equity; and 
by greatly increasing the power of the Minister to direct and restrict the Tribunal, it destroys its independence and renders the Tribunal subject to considerable political influence and control in its day to day operations'. 
I commend the amendment to honourable senators. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is the amendment seconded? 

 - Mr President, I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That the Senate, noting that the International Year of the Child should be marked by programs of lasting benefit- 
urges all Australian governments to take practical, constructive steps to secure a safe and social environment for the three million Australian children under twelve years of age; and 
encourages every action which might be appropriate to relieve suffering and deprivation affecting many of the world's one billion five hundred million children. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport about co-ordinating surveillance operations in northern Australia. Is it a fact that at about 4.30 p.m. on a day in early April- I believe 9 April- a surveillance report was made that a refugee boat had landed some 130 kilometres from Darwin? Did it become apparent that there was need to send a quarantine team to investigate the report in order, particularly, to ensure the protection of our agricultural industries? Is it a fact that a lapse of some 14 hours occurred before a helicopter could be despatched from Darwin to the landing site? Is it also a fact that this helicopter had to be chartered from a private operator who left the quarantine team on the beach for some 36 hours while he went about other business? Is it a fact that the quarantine team was unable to take a radio to the beach in question, because of a lack of room in the helicopter and was thus out of communication for one and a half days? Is it not absurd and dangerous that any response to the sighting of an unauthorised landing on our shore should be dependent on such manifestly defective arrangements? Will the Government consider posting urgently to Darwin an armed forces helicopter? 
I rise briefly in the adjournment debate to state more fully a position attributed to me in an article by  Mr Simon  Nasht in today's  Age  under the heading 'Judges may lose chauffeurs'. I am not actually making a personal explanation because I do not claim to have been misrepresented, but wish to state more fully a position attributed to me. The article concerns the possibility of costcutting moves by this Government involving the use by the Federal judiciary and concilation and arbitration commissioners of chauffeur-driven government vehicles. It states: 
A member of the committee - 
That is Estimates Committee B- 

 Senator Tate (Lab., Tas.), last night described the practice as an 'extravagance which had outgrown its purpose'. 
I believe that that is the case. I believe that every Commonwealth office-holder ought to be prepared to bear the cost of travel between his place of residence and his place of work, where both places are within the same city or town, in the same way as every other employee and wage earner throughout the community has to bear the cost of getting to work and home again. I made a note of the conversation I had with  Mr Simon  Nasht at about 9.30 last night when he telephoned me. I should point out that the number of people involved is not small. There are about 42 Family Court judges throughout Australia, 30 Federal Court judges, and the  President  and commissioners of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I made the point to 

 Mr Nasht that whilst the use of chauffeur-driven government vehicles by the Commonwealth judiciary between home and place of work in their home city is an extravagance which should be curtailed, such curtailment should not be used by this Government as an excuse to cut down the number of Commonwealth car drivers in the Government's employ.  I  observed to  Mr Nash  that  I  believed that in Sydney the Commonwealth car drivers pool had decreased by some 50 or more persons over the last three years and that this was causing grave problems and grave concern amongst car drivers in that pool and in similar pools throughout Australia. 1 made the point very explicitly that whilst extravagances, as they are properly termed, in relation to the chauffeuring of judges and conciliation and arbitration commissioners between place of residence and place of work ought to be curtailed, the Government when carrying through such a necessary cost-cutting exercise ought not to cut back the number of Commonwealth car drivers in its pools in capital cities throughout Australia. Such drivers should be left free to perform duties which, as  I  said to  Mr Nasht,  the community would be more likely to support. 1 refer to duties such as the transportation of repatriation patients and Commonwealth office-holders outside their own city of residence.  I  am not reflecting on the journalist.  I  believe that he took a full note of our conversation. No doubt the problem occurred when the article was being cut in Melbourne. However,  I  wish to place on record that that is the more complete statement of my position. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications whether he is aware of the fact that television viewing is the dominant activity in the lives of many of Australia's children, absorbing as it does well over 1 ,000 hours a year which, in duration, outstrips both schooling and parental formation of their outlook? As the promised six months for governmental response to the Senate's report 'Children and Television' has expired, and given the tremendous support for that report's recommendations throughout the community, especially in Tasmania, I ask: Will the Government urgently, before we rise for the winter recess, inform the Parliament of its response? 
I wish to elaborate slightly on a question I asked a fortnight ago in this chamber concerning visits of certain members of the Royal family to Australia. In particular, I was concerned at the cost to the Australian taxpayer of these sojourners wandering around this nation performing what I thought to be highly artificial tasks or minor ceremonies. I know that  Senator Davidson  will be particularly interested to listen to my contribution to this debate. In my view and in the view of many Australians these ceremonies and tasks contribute very little- indeed, nothing- to our general well-being. You will recall,  Mr President,  that I excluded from my remarks the Queen, Prince Philip and Prince Charles who, under our present constitutional arrangements, have a certain role to perform which I believe they discharge with a certain vigour and charm, probably to general acclaim. 
However, I would be less than honest with honourable senators if I did not indicate a wish on my part- this is a desire which I believe is shared by many millions of Australians of all political persuasions- for the time when the Queen on her visits to Australia will be greeted simply as the Head of the Commonwealth of Nations and Head of State of a former homeland, an ancestral home of a significant, in fact, the larger part of our present population. She should be shown the deference, respect and courtesy due to any visiting head of state, particularly of a nation which has contributed a people to the Australian population. She should be accorded only a little more deference than would be accorded to, say, the presidents of Italy or Greece on a visit to Australia. The added significance would come from her role and status as the Head of the Commonwealth of Nations. 
My absolute personal conviction is that I do not see hereditary monarchy, even less do I see an English hereditary monarchy, as the best or most suitable means of providing a head of state for Australia. An Australian Governor-General, independent of formal links with any of the nations which have contributed to our history through the migration of their nationals to this land, would be ideal. He would be an indigenous Australian Governor-General with no links to any former homeland. But an English hereditary monarchy is, in the opinion of many Australians, a symbol of a directly contradictory society to that which we are attempting to create in Australia. We want an egalitarian and pluralist community. The hereditary crown symbolises a completely different, contradictory sort of society to what we want. We should have nothing to do with it. When one has an hereditary head of state, one is really saying that access to decent living conditions, proper health care and a stimulating and full education for one's children, depends on the family into which one is born. That is what an hereditary monarch symbolises and is all about. I totally reject the principle that a head of state for Australia be chosen from an hereditary group. After all, in Australia we believe that everyone, into whatever family he or she is born, ought to be given a fair go with access to living conditions of a decent standard, adequate health care and proper education, without regard to family ancestry. An English hereditary monarchy simply sharpens the contradiction. Particularly since the Second World War Australia has been markedly pluralist, culturally and ethnically. 
As I said initially, the Queen should simply be greeted as head of state of a former homeland, the ancestral home of the largest and perhaps still the most significant, but not by any means the only, section of our population. It seems to me to be totally absurd to require Poles, Greeks, Arabs or the Irish to acknowledge the English monarch as head of the new nation to which they have come. They probably come to Australia precisely to escape the old social structures of Europe or at least the consequences of those structures. Of course this is to say nothing of those Australians whose claim to this continent preceded European settlement and who must view the English crown as the fount of much of their present alienation within this nation. I hope it is understood that I am speaking simply as an Australian. I am immensely proud of this nation and hopeful for its future. We should recognise that what was appropriate in a certain point in our history is no longer apt and should be abandoned without any sense of betrayal but in order to signify our national independence within the community of nations. 
Last Monday afternoon in Smithton in northwestern Tasmania I presented a flag to the St Peter Chanel primary school. I explained the flag to the small children there. 1 pointed to the Union Jack and explained it in the proper historical perspective as symbolising the first British settlement in this continent. I emphasised the significance of the Southern Cross. I may have lost some votes because I told the children to ask their parents to take them out and show them the Southern Cross, and that night was a bitterly cold night in that part of Tasmania. 
As I emphasised it is a fact that from every part of Australia, every part of this great Commonwealth we can see the group of stars known as the Southern Cross. To me these stars symbolise our national unity. We can thank providence for allowing us to live in and create a nation under the aegis of that benign constellation. Surely we can devise forms befitting our independent national status under the Southern Cross. I hope that by 1988, our bi-centenary of European settlement, the left hand top corner of our flag will portray perhaps the kangaroo as a symbol as much Australian as the maple leaf is Canadian. I believe that day will come soon but in the meantime we acknowledge and live courteously within the present constitutional structures. 
The point I made in my question two weeks ago was that our patience and tolerance are stretched by this Government's refusal to say no to the wealthy wanderers jetting in and out of Australia at our expense. My question concerning the cost of Royal visits was the product of a revulsion at being asked as a taxpayer to do more than greet the Queen as head of state, or her consort or heir, on their visits here. Constantly, it would seem, we are being required to foot the bill for the travels of a much wider selection of the remnants of Queen Victoria's family. 
If those terms are disrespectful I regret having used them. I will be happy to substitute the words 'the descendants of Queen Victoria'. My disquiet in this matter was triggered in early February by a civic reception. A civic reception was held for Miss Australia in my home town of Devonport in north-west Tasmania. She was a vivacious girl who by her own effort and talent- not by virtue of the family into which she was born- had put herself in a position where she was working her heart out on behalf of handicapped children. She was making a real contribution to Australian society. The tea, pastries and sandwiches at the reception cost, I guess, in the region of $25 to $30. In the same week the Duke and Duchess of Gloucester graced us with their presence. So that they could travel around Tasmania a Rolls Royce was jetted in at a cost of $8,000. The Hercules aircraft in which it was transported cost $ 1 ,600 per hour to hire. I believe they did nothing of value for the Tasmanian community while they were there. The civic luncheon held on the north-west coast cost some $2,500. 1 contrast this amount with the expenditure on the reception for Miss Australia. 
At that time the thought occurred to me what fools we were to be allowing the Gloucesters to escape the rigours of the northern winter at our expense. An expression came to my mind that I realise it is not proper to use in this place. It was a vague indication of something which lives on the energy of something else. I was trying to convey the idea of certain members of society depending for their well-being on the energies and the hardearned results of the work of the Australian community. 
I accept the proper limits of debate which have been indicated to me,  Mr President.  I move to some more factual material in the appropriations we are debating tonight. Page 14 of the explanation of the additional estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet in 1978-79 shows that the expenditure on the visit of  Her  Royal Highness Princess Alexandra and the  Hon.  Angus Ogilvy, members of the Royal Family, who visited Australia for some 13 days. Initially some $50,000 was allocated to cover their tour. At the end of the 1 3 days it was found that the budget figure was inadequate. The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet has now come to this Parliament seeking $ 105,000. That is an average of $8,000 a day. For the visit of Their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Gloucester, to which I have adverted, the initial budget figure of $50,000 was found to be inadequate. The estimated cost of the visit is now $90,000. Over a 16-day visit, that is $6,000 a day. I emphasise that the figures I am giving are for Federal Government expenditure of a direct kind only. 
These are two instances of the Federal taxpayer being required to contribute towards costs averaging $7,000 a day. As a State taxpayer and as a municipal ratepayer the average Australian in an area to which these Royal visitors go would be contributing in the order of $10,000 to $12,000 a day. Hence my question to  Senator Carrick  on 2 May 1979 could not have been too far from the mark when I suggested that the cost of a four-day visit by Princess Anne in mid-July would be of the order of $25,000, or an average cost to the Federal taxpayer of $6,250 a day. Therefore, I cannot accept the answer that I have since received from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He said: 
The figure of $25,000 mentioned in recent Press reports as the cost of the visits is pure speculation. The visit is scheduled to take place from Thursday 19 to Monday 23 July and details have not yet been finalised. It is therefore not possible to provide, at this stage, an estimate of the cost. 
As I have shown from the average cost of two recent Royal visits, I think $25,000 would not be far from the mark for a four-day visit by Princess Anne. To say that that amount is pure speculation is, I think, quite wrong. It must be regarded as informed speculation, on the basis of the very estimates which have been submitted to this chamber For its consideration at this moment, unless of course as a result of public opinion Princess Anne does what many consider to be the right thing and uses her own wealth and pays for her own visit here as World  President  of the Save the Children Fund. I suggested early in May that some such course could be graciously and honourably taken by Princess Anne, thus freeing the $25,000 and enabling the Australian Government to make a direct gift to the Save the Children Fund. This would immediately relieve the plight and suffering of wretched children in this International Year of the Child, a suggestion which I notice was repeated by Gerald Reece in the  Sun  of 8 May. 
If my protest were due to myopic preoccupation with extravagances involved in being privileged to have the relatives of  Her  Majesty crowding into Australia, such protest could be understood in its own terms. It would lead to the sort of editorial written in the  Australian  on 3 May. That editorial stated: 
In a somewhat different way, it is pleasant to see the Queen and some of her family. The Queen is, after all, still very much Queen of Australia and she is a most agreeable person, fully worthy of our national affection. 
But we must ask if the royal route is not getting just a little crowded . . . Our official visitors this year are costing something like half a million dollars. Perhaps that is rather too much to pay for a comparative handful of Australians to get a royal smile. 
But something more than a mere revulsion at the extravagance involved in these tours lies at the base of my concern. This is where I found the heated and vigorous defence of the Leader of the Government  (Senator Carrick)  so surprising because I believe  Senator Carrick  's defence of these visits lays bare the injustice of the priorities in social expenditure pursued by this Government. What am I to say to an unemployed 17- year-old youth who comes to my office in Devonport, a presentable lad unable to find a job, despite his best endeavours? What am I to say to a pensioner who asks that every six months her pension be adjusted to keep pace with the cost of living? What am I to say to a family man who faces an extra $3.50 a week for health insurance costs as a result of last Thursday's mini-Budget's breaking the Medibank promise? What am I to say to the pay-as-you-earn wage and salary earner who cannot afford elaborate tax avoidance schemes and who now has to continue paying the 2.5 per cent tax surcharge as a result of last Thursday's mini-Budget's breaking the tax relief promise? What am I to say to these fair and just requests for Federal Government action to alleviate their distress, when the Leader of the Government in this chamber so strenuously and heatedly defends and encourages the continuing raids on our national Treasury by one of the wealthiest families in Europe? This is what the letters to my office have been saying as a result of my question. I believe they go to the heart of the matter. I quote from two of those letters. The first stated in part: 
The sycophantic attitude of the present Government is to be expected of a conservative and elitist party which prefers to squander taxpayers' money on the external symbols of power and prestige than to remedy some of the manifest injustices of our society. 
The second stated in part: 
At a time of high unemployment and recession generally it is galling to have extensive public moneys spent on such luxuries. 
That is the point. That is the accusation. We are governed by a Cabinet which seems incapable of grasping the public's innate good sense about what is fair and just in the distribution of our hard earned wealth. Excluding the Queen, Prince Philip and Prince Charles, who have a constitutional role to perform, the continued subservience of this Government to other members of the royal family symbolises its total loss of touch with the vast majority of Australians. I believe that at the next election the Australian people will have no hesitation in ridding themselves of this promise-breaking, incompetent Government which pursues and defends such manifestly unjust spending priorities. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs been drawn to the lead editorial in today's  Australian  alleging that a decision has been made by the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs to withdraw the subsidy paid to encourage the employment of mentally handicapped young people? 
-The editorial is dated Wednesday, 30 May. 
I am obviously not asking a Dorothy Dixer. My question was not going to assume the correctness of the editorial. I intended to go on and ask whether, in fact, such a decision had been taken by the Department. How much expenditure under this heading occurred in each of the States and the Northern Territory in 1977-78 and 1978-79? How many retarded children have benefited from the operation of this scheme in each of the States and the Northern Territory in those years? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that yesterday the two national airline operators announced a reduction of nine flights each a week to the north-west coast of Tasmania from 1 1 June? Is this reorganisation directly consequential on the Government's permitting 
Bizjets to operate into Devonport by way of commuter service? Will the Government guarantee that fully serviced scheduled flights operated by Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of. Australia will continue with no reduction in the number of seats currently available? Further, at the expiry of the six months provisional licence granted to Bizjets and before renewing the permit, will the Government seriously consider the effect that renewal would have on the employment of TAA and Ansett staff numbering 66 on the north-west coast? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. The Government will be aware of  Mr Hayden  's proposal that to combat youth unemployment, with all its long term morale sapping effect, a youth voluntary service program should be established. Has the Minister noted in today's Press reports that the National  President  of the Returned Services League has indicated the full support of the League for  Mr Hayden  's scheme? Does the Minister agree that  Mr Hayden  's proposal merits the fullest consideration by this Government and community organisations so that a just solution to the grave situation facing our young people may be reached? 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That the Senate- 
Is of the opinion that the taxation system is inequitable because of its erosion by tax avoidance schemes, many of which have been approved by the High Court; 
b ) Express its grave concern at the recent increase in the use of these schemes by many persons, thus shifting the tax burden unfairly on to other Australians and denying the Government money for its programs; and 
Requests the Government to urgently introduce such legislative and administrative measures as will ensure that all Australians contribute their fair share to the nation's revenue. 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Treasurer to an article in the  Bulletin  of 29 May 1979 in which a  Mr Peter  Clyne, described as a disbarred barrister and tenant evictor boasts: 
I have not put in a return - 
Being a tax return- for 1 5 years. 
He concludes with these words: 
What with appeals, I will not be compelled to file a tax return until about 1984. If 5,000 other people followed in my footsteps you can imagine the chaos it would cause. 
What can the Government do under the range of powers available to it, perhaps under the postal or interstate trade and commerce powers, to prevent the dissemination by advertising or interview of these sorts of remarks or schemes so subversive of the national revenue and the community's sense of fairness? 
-Only last November the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  walked into the House of Representatives and admitted that the Atomic Energy Act was a totally unsatisfactory vehicle for the commercial exploitation of uranium in Australia. In this chamber, a mere 7 months later, we are confronted by yet another amendment designed to remedy the latest defect discovered in the Atomic Energy Commission's ability to manage the development of this Australian energy source. The Opposition believes that the introduction of these further amendments to the Atomic Energy Act amounts to a further damning admission by this Government of how inappropriate this Act is as the legislative framework for the development and exploitation of uranium within Australia, particularly as it is claimed to be developed for- I believe this to be the casepeaceful purposes and commercial profit. 
The Opposition says that no amendment can save the basic impropriety of using an Act which was formulated in the early 1 950s to deal with a completely different defence situation. Honourable senators will know that that defence situation revolved around the exploitation of the Rum Jungle deposits, in order to aid the nuclear weapons programs of our allies. We say that that Act was drawn on a completely different basis from that which is said to prevail at the moment, namely, that we are trying to develop these deposits to help an energy starved world and for commercial profit. It is well known that the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry chaired by  Mr Justice  Fox perceived the contrary- the utterly different context of the late 1970s as distinct from the early 1950s. It perceived a completely different historical situation. The rationale for Australia's uranium development has utterly changed. Page 248 of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry second report states: 
We strongly recommend against the use of that Act for the grant of an authority to Ranger to mine uranium. 
Why did the Fox inquiry commissioners recommend against the use of the Atomic Energy Act as a legislative framework for the development of our uranium resources? Why did the Government decide- contrary to that recommendation- to continue to use it? I believe that on 25 November last year I answered both questions in a debate on further amendments to the Act by pointing to the provisions of the Act which have the effect of seriously eroding our ordinary civil and political liberties. I pointed to sections which deal with the presumption of guilt. There is a presumption of guilt in certain sections which is raised by virtue of being a certain character and not by virtue of engaging in any particular activity. Certain sections grant immunity in advance to Commonwealth Police officers concerning, for example, illegal detention or seizures of property. There are sections which vest inordinate discretions in the hands of the Attorney-General to determine liability to light or heavy sentences. Whilst these provisions have not yet been brought into operation they are potentially available to a government. This must be the explanation for the Government's continuing with the Atomic Energy Act as a legislative framework for the development of the Ranger project despite the very clear recommendations made against it by the Ranger inquiry. 
It is not good enough to say, as I have no doubt  Senator Young  will say, that the Labor Administration envisaged using the Atomic Energy Act as the legislative framework for the development of those resources. At that time we did not have the benefit of the recommendations of the Fox inquiry commissioners. In the light of their very strong recommendations I am sure that we would have made the necessary adjustment to the legislative basis for the development of this program. The Opposition states categorically that those sorts of provisions hanging in the air which are potentially available to a government to erode our civil and political liberties and which are understandable in the defence context of the early 1950s have no place in the development of this Ranger uranium resource. I would have thought that any decent government would have acknowledged as much by now. In any case it ought to be clear that the Labor Party will never support any amendments purporting to ameliorate or modify the operation of this Act. We say that the whole legislative framework ought to be scrapped and cannot be saved by piecemeal tinkering. My remarks made clear to honourable senators our general objection to the Atomic Energy Act even as it is proposed to be amended. 
I now move to the amendment to the Act, which briefly is to enable the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to borrow moneys and issue securities, which are guaranteed by the Treasurer on behalf of the Commonwealth, to raise funds for the capital costs for the Ranger project in particular. The Atomic Energy Commission will contribute 72 V4 per cent, the Peko company will contribute 13% per cent and the EZ company will also contribute 13% per cent. The Bill also provides further arrangements as to operating costs. The Opposition's fundamental point concerning this amendment is that the Atomic Energy Commission ought not continue to combine the functions of a research establishment, a regulatory and safeguards body and a commercial operator with respect to atomic energy materials or processes. 
The Opposition is constructive in this area, as it is in all others. Its leader, the future Prime Minister, Bill Hayden, has very properly and constructively responded to an advertisement in the national Press calling for submissions to the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council inquiry into research and development activities of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. The terms of reference of the inquiry are somewhat defective, as I will point out later. I believe the submission by  Mr Hayden  certainly was not defective. Amongst other things, it proposed that the current functions of the Atomic Energy Commission be divided. This is a constructive contribution to this debate. The Opposition proposes that the Atomic Energy Act be repealed and replaced by legislation to give effect to a number of proposals. The first of those is that an independent regulatory authority be established to be responsible for nuclear-related environmental protection, health, safety, security, safeguards and other non-proliferation activities. 
Secondly, a new government corporation should be established to take over the present commercial activities of the Atomic Energy Commission, such as the production and marketing of radio-isotopes. A third body should be established. Other research functions currently being performed by the Atomic Energy Commission ought to be performed as appropriate by a nuclear science authority with projects funded by a national fuel and energy commission, consistent with research and development priorities determined for a national energy policy. There may be allocations of funds to commercial as opposed to regulatory sections within the Atomic Energy Commission. More importantly there may be an actual conflict between a desired mode of operation of a reactor and some safety or regulatory measures. Perhaps more frighteningly, the regulatory or safety arm of the 
Atomic Energy Commission may lack independence and integrity of command and fail to enforce optimum safeguards. It is clearly appropriate in an area of such obvious conflicts of interest that the organisational arrangements should reflect a desire that the best possible research, the most competent commercial exploitation and the most vigorous health and environmental safeguards should be promoted by separate bodies not answerable to a single set of commissioners. Therefore, the Opposition will oppose the amendments provided in the Bill which continue to try to give to the Atomic Energy Commissioners conflicting roles. 
In putting this proposal forward, the Opposition is being in no way radical. The proposal is not proffered in any destructive way. The need for the changes was alluded to by a very eminent and respected authority. The Coombs Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration suggested in very moderate language that there may well be a case for reconsidering the form, structure and the functions of the Atomic Energy Commission. It was conceived under the influence of scientific, technological and economic expectations which have changed dramatically since its establishment. This is no partisan proposal that the Opposition is putting. I believe that the Australian Democrats are inclined to support the Labor Party's attitude in this debate and will signify that to this chamber. I believe many honourable senators from the Government parties share the Opposition's view about the need to divide the present functions of the Commission amongst several independent bodies. Naturally, in support of the Government, they will not be signifying that in this chamber, but I hope that they will continue to do so in their party rooms. 
The Opposition says that the commercial exploitation for peaceful purposes of uranium energy resources at Ranger or elsewhere, if it is to be undertaken by any statutory authority whether in partnership or alone, ought to be undertaken by a body with a charter for entrepreneurial activities only- certainly not by the presently constituted Commission within the framework of the Atomic Energy Act. Regulatory and safeguards measures should be undertaken by and be the responsibility of an absolutely independent authority, as is the case in the United States, the United Kingdom and in any nation to which Australia would look for models of the best organisational structure for this peculiarly hazardous industry. By all means let nuclear energy, isotope research and the like continue to be undertaken by a revamped 
Atomic Energy Commission within a peace oriented legislative framework. I am certainly not one to query the Commission's competence or to doubt its capacity, if relieved of other tasks, to provide sound research for the future. 
I come back to a point I made earlier. I am very concerned that the terms of reference of the NERDDC inquiry may have predetermined that the Government will make the Australian Atomic Energy Commission the central authority for a wide range of research activities in Australia. One finds in the advertisement calling for submissions that the review committee has been asked to report on, amongst other things, the capacity of the research establishment at Lucas Heights to redirect its research and development role and to deploy both existing and new resources to meet the Government's energy policies and broader energy research and development objectives. The committee was further asked to report on the identification of any factors which could inhibit any redeployment and use of research establishment resources in nonnuclear energy research and development activities. 
The Opposition says that rather than the types of energy research undertaken by the Atomic Energy Commission being expanded, the Commission should do what it does best- that is, nuclear research- as a nuclear science authority. It ought to act within those parameters, funded by a national fuel and energy commission. This is the proposal put forward several months ago by  Mr Keating,  the Opposition spokesman on energy and national resources, in the Labor Party's Green Paper. Honourable senators will recall that this Green Paper was extremely well received by industry and the media throughout Australia. It received a glowing editorial in the  Canberra Times  the day after it was released. Within this Green Paper the proposed national fuel and energy commission is described in framework only. The Opposition stated: 
A future Labor Government would establish a national Fuel and Energy Commission to assist the Government in developing and implementing a co-ordinated fuel and energy policy by providing expert advice to the Government. 
Of course, responsibility must remain with the Minister. The Green Paper continues: 
It is important that a committee concerned with the coordination of energy activities have representation from all bodies involved with energy in Australia. For this reason the proposed Fuel and Energy Commission would be composed of representatives of Federal and State governments and of producers and consumers of energy. 
It would be from that overall national commission, looking after the whole energy research and development requirements of Australia, that the proposed nuclear science authority would derive its sustenance and the parameters within which it would operate. This proposal is echoed in  Mr Hayden  's submission to the NERDDC inquiry. I believe that I have established why the Australian Labor Party cannot support this amendment. The conflict of roles within the Australian Atomic Energy Act needs to be resolved. It is not good enough for the Government month after month, session after session, to ask honourable senators to pass amendments to deal with the obvious gaps within the legislation which was devised for a totally different, defence oriented exploitation of our uranium resources at Rum Jungle.  Mr President,  on behalf of the Opposition I move as an amendment to the motion for the second reading: 
Leave out all words after 'That', and insert 'the Senate declines to give the Bill a second reading as it is of the opinion that: 
1 ) the Australian Atomic Energy Commission should not be empowered to raise funds on the commercial market for uranium mining until such time as the unresolved problems associated with the nuclear industry have been satisfactorily resolved; and 
the Atomic Energy Act is an inappropriate legislative basis for nuclear energy research and development and for commercial activities and should be repealed and replaced by legislation to establish: 
an independent regulatory authority responsible for nuclear-related environmental protection, health, safety, security, safeguards and other nonproliferation activities; 
a government corporation to conduct the present commercial activities of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, such as the production and marketing of radioisotopes; and 
a Nuclear Science Authority to perform, as appropriate, the other functions currently undertaken by the Commission'. 
By putting that amendment on behalf of the Opposition I have concluded my remarks. 
-by leave- I thank the Senate for its indulgence. I gather that the drift of what the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  had to say did not really meet my concern, namely, that the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs was put down on 2 June 1 978. lt is now 7 June 1 979. In other words, 12 months have elapsed. We had an undertaking given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that the Government would respond within six months to such reports put down in the Parliament. That has not occurred. That is my first concern. The second is that in the adjournment debate some time ago 1 specifically asked the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  whether he might not ensure that a response to the report was made during these autumn sittings rather than a response being delayed until the Budget sittings, when the question of $6m or $8m of forgone revenue might overcome considerations of equity and fairness to small traders and employees who are affected. For example, Telecom Australia or the Commissioner of Taxation might take what are by definition meagre assets of a trader who has entered into a situation of extending credit to a person or a firm which becomes bankrupt or to an employee who has accumulated long service leave or other entitlements. It seems to me that if the Government is delaying consideration of this matter and if it will not give an answer in Parliament until perhaps September, we are in a situation where the consideration of revenue forgone may assume a dominance in the consideration of Budget which will overwhelm the considerations of fairness to the two groups of people about whomI spoke. They are the matters about which I still express my concern. 

 Senator CHANEY (Western AustraliaMinister for Aboriginal Affairs)- by leave- I am sorry that I jumped the gun on  Senator Tate,  but I was trying to be co-operative in the circumstances that the Senate faced. I well understand the point of view that  Senator Tate  put forward. I would point out to him that I was a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs that brought forward the report. I am in the usual position of also being able to participate in the subsequent deliberations upon it. The report has been under active consideration in the fullest meaning of that term.  Senator Tate  would be aware that the area of law involved in the report is quite complex. Apart from the revenue considerations which he mentioned, there are quite difficult areas to encompass. As I recall the position, the Committee spent a lot of time and effort in producing that report.  Senator Tate  would appreciate that Ministers who are picking up the recommendations in that report, without the advantage of the weeks of work put into it by the Committee, are not necessarily able to come to a quick, crisp, clean decision on it. 
I take particular note of  Senator Tate's  comment about revenue costs. The Committee reported that revenue in the vicinity of $ 10m was involved in the changes it recommended. I can assure  Senator Tate  that whether the report is considered by the Government in the autumn, spring, summer or winter, it is part of every matter that is considered by the Government that the revenue considerations are put before the Cabinet. I do not think I breach any rule of Cabinet confidentiality by saying that. So its consideration at this time of the year as against some time in the next couple of months is not particularly relevant. There is no real significance, in my view, in the point which  Senator Tate  raised. When one bears in mind the decisions taken by the Government over the last couple of weeks, I think even  Senator Tate  would concede that that is very likely to be the case. 
The Government broke new ground by undertaking to respond to parliamentary committee reports. It was a change which I and I think all senators welcomed. In fact it has not been possible for the Government to meet the deadline that it set for itself in all cases. In my own portfolio, I am out of time in relation to a number of reports. The process of consideration of parliamentary committee reports has been built into the system of government, and that is quite a novel development. If there have been some delays beyond the six-month period I think honourable senators who have been here longer than has  Senator Tate  will assure him that, in achieving automatic consideration of reports by the Government and a subsequent statement to the Parliament, we have come a long way indeed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at  12.20  a.m. (Thursday) 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I have had only a moment's glance at the document just provided by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  but in principle the Opposition thoroughly agrees with the intended use of this legislation. This order, and the legislation from which it flows, are really part of the support given by the Government to our commodity producers when they seek markets abroad. What has happened is that there has been a conflict of interest between United States consumers of our energy resources on the one hand and Australian producers of certain energy primary products on the other. Whereas the United States legal system has been manipulated by United States consumers in order to achieve benefits for those consuming these energy resources within the United States, that manipulation is now being confronted by an Australian government which at last, somewhat belatedly, has recognised its obligation to ensure that Australian producers, whether of energy resources, iron ore, bauxite or alumina, et cetera, can themselves present a united front to the united buying power of groups abroad, of which United States utility companies and Japanese steel companies are perhaps the best known examples. So in principle, the Opposition certainly agrees with the order that has been placed before the Senate today by the Attorney-General. 
With regard to the actual details of this particular judgment, whilst the quantum of the liability has not yet been determined, given the fact that a $7 billion liability is possible against 29 companies spread throughout the world, four of which are Australian, it is quite clear that the effect of enforcement of that order within Australia would be to cripple enterprises which are extremely important to the economic and commercial well-being of this community. As I said, the Opposition has not had the opportunity to look at the matter in detail, but for the reasons I have mentioned, we support the order placed before the Senate. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Development: Has the Government considered a report of officials on government to government purchases of oil, thus by-passing the major oil companies? Is it a fact that the report indicated that supplies of oil from the Middle East were conditional upon concessions relating to certain political matters and various trade issues? Is it further a fact that the report also indicated that Middle East countries would require the establishment of an Australian Government corporation through which they would do business? When will the Government inform the Parliament of its decisions on this crucial report? 
Has the Minister representing the Treasurer noted a report in today's Press that the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia has come out officially against tax avoidance schemes? In view of this welcome break between the accountancy profession and those people who would subvert our society by refusing to contribute their fair share to government revenue, will the Government ensure that the Institute  President, Mr John  Bishop, is immediately called in for consultation on the drafting of a new section 260, dealing with the artifices of tax bludgers? Further, can the Minister indicate what stage the drafting of a new tax law in that regard has reached? 
-We are faced today with a Government decision which ignores completely the recommendations of a bipartisan Senate committee- the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairsand I will justify that statement in a moment. The Committee had recommended a major social reform whereby, upon the severe financial deterioration of a person or firm resulting in bankruptcy or insolvency, all who wanted to share in the meagre assets of that person or firm would do so equally, whether it be the community seeking to recover tax moneys, a trader seeking to recover unsecured debts or an employee seeking to recover, for example, workers compensation, long service leave entitlements or even ordinary wages and salaries. 
The Committee's recommendation was to the effect that all such creditors should be ranked equally and should share in what would be, by definition, the meagre assets available for distribution. The Government, in response to this- 1 5 months after the report was tabled- said no, and hiding behind a feudalistic notion or at least a feudalistic garb stated that the Crown should take priority over these ordinary traders and employees when it comes to the recovery of taxation where there is a bankruptcy or insolvency. As  Senator Missen  has so eloquently pointed out, there is no doubt that the claims of equity and fairness have been totally overcome by the perceived need of the Government to raise revenue. 
The only departments and witnesses to argue against the abandonment of priority by the Crown in the gathering of taxation were the Departments of Finance and the Commissioner of Taxation. Obviously they have pressed their claim. They have remained obstinate and they have succeeded in getting the Government to agree to their original position. On 8 March I asked the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in this place during the adjournment debate whether the delay in coming to a decision which the Government had not given in the autumn session could be explained by the fact that questions of revenue were taking priority in the Government's mind and whether there was a danger that if the decision were delayed until the Budget session, budgetary considerations would become dominant. On 8 March, at page 716 of  Hansard  Senator Durack  replied: 
Admittedly the decision will be made outside the time originally indicated - 
That is the six-months response time- 
But, as 1 said. - 
That is  Senator Durack  speaking-  that is due to the complexities of the subject and not to any financial considerations, as  Senator Tate  feared may be the case. 
I think it is beyond doubt that in the absence of any explanation offered by the Minister in putting down this statement, the only plausible explanation for the retention of Crown priority, as it is called- it is community priority, in fact- in the gathering of tax moneys, before the claims of unsecured creditors and employees are met, is the need for revenue. As  Senator Missen  has pointed out, the amount of revenue is not easy to determine in any case. It may be in the region of $5m or $6m, on the surface. That figure is speculative. It needs to be modified by the consideration that if ordinary traders were able to recover and share in equally the distribution of assets and if ordinary employees were entitled to receive long service leave, workers' compensation, wage and salary claims and so on, on a par with the community seeking its taxation then, because of the lesser incidence or amount of bad debts, and because of the spending power that would be put into the hands of employees, quite a bit of that $5m or $6m apparently lost would return to Government revenues by the obvious greater income of employees and the good debts within the trading community. 
This is what is so difficult to understand in this statement which has been put down. It is totally misleading. It says that the Government has examined the report and is fully in agreement with the main thrust of the Committee's argument, but then it proceeds to completely gut the Committee report and denudes it of any real significance. To give up Crown priority in relation to trading debts is to give up a very small area indeed. That is signified by the fact that neither the Commissioner of Taxation nor the Department of Finance objected to that when appearing before the Committee. What they objected to and what they have succeeded in maintaining as an objection is the giving up of priority to the gathering in of taxation. 
What is the bankruptcy situation in Australia at the moment? We all know that bankruptcies are increasing at an alarming rate. In my home State of Tasmania there were 93 bankruptcies for the year ended 30 June 1976; 95 in the year ended 30 June 1977; 148 in the year ended 30 June 1978, and up to 30 April this year there were 170. The same figures are repeated on the same sort of scale in all other States and the Northern Territory. More and more unsecured creditors and employees are being placed in jeopardy as businesses and firms collapse. The disadvantages and the hardships in the Government's maintenance of this priority have been, I think, adequately outlined by  Senator Missen.  I can assure the Government that it is both traders and employees who are concerned to share equally with the community in the assets of the bankrupt or the insolvent. I can assure the Minister that the chambers of commerce and the trade unions in Tasmania, and no doubt in other States, have been equally supportive of this report and are anxious to see it implemented. What is surprising is that the Government has not really thought through the ill-effect of this continuing priority on commercial life and on relations between traders. It was pointed out in the report, as I recall it, that the fact that other creditors know that the Crown is going to take priority lessens their vigilence. They suspect that the Crown will swallow up all the meagre assets in its claim for taxation. Therefore, they become less vigilant and less pressing of their claims. 
There is another factor which is of concern. Strangely enough, on an aeroplane a couple of months ago I was sitting next to a director of a company who had had experience of what I am about to speak of. Where the Crown, through the Commissioner of Taxation, waives its claims to press a particular tax debt, it creates an impression in the minds of other traders of quite a sound position of the company against which the Commissioner of Taxation has decided not to press the claim. In other words, a situation of grace on the part of the Commissioner of Taxation creates an impression on other persons within the community that the company or firm concerned is in quite good health. Apparently a good situation of liquidity is portray a bie by that employer and by that trader to his employees and to other traders. This can be quite misleading. This is another small matter which the Government just does not seem to have taken into account in its decision to maintain this dominance of the claims of taxation over other ordinary debts. 
I will be seeking leave to continue my remarks in a moment in the hope that we can take up the matter at a later time. My remarks relates to the failure of the Government to maintain its promise to respond within six months of the laying down of these reports. It is a sad day when, 15 months after consideration by the Government of a unanimous and bipartisan Senate Committee report, the Minister comes into this chamber and tells the Parliament in a misleading way that it has adopted the spirit of the report but not the substance, or so little of it that I can assure honourable senators that those who are looking forward to relief, whether they be the small traders or employees represented through the chambers of commerce or trade unions, will be most vociferous in their rejection of the Government's decision. 
Normally, perhaps because of my nature, I seek to find even in government activity those things which are good in any measure, even though as a member of the Opposition one might be opposing the measure as a whole. But I can say that this decision by the Government is so vitiated by its refusal to accept the main contention of the report that one has to say that there is nothing good in the statement that the Minister has put down. Apparently the concessions were minimal and were only given because they were in harmony with the whole weight of bureaucracy advice. They are so minimal and marginal that the Opposition can concede nothing good in this response by the Government. We will certainly be supportive of those members around the chamber and in both Houses of Parliament who will seek to reverse that decision. 
-I move: 
That the Senate, noting that the International Year of the Child should be marked by programs of lasting benefit- 
urges all Australian Governments to take practical, constructive steps to secure a safe and social environment for the three million Australian children under twelve years of age; and 
encourages every action which might be appropriate to relieve suffering and deprivation affecting many of (he world 's one billion five hundred million children. 
If we took the total population of Australia and somehow reduced the persons concerned to the age and status of those under 12 years, we would still have less than one per cent of the child population of the world. There are one billion five hundred million children under 12 years of age round the world. That is the scope of the challenge with which we are confronted by the United Nations in this International Year of the Child. In its Declaration of the Rights of the Child, which I will seek shortly to incorporate in  Hansard,  the United Nations challenges us to improve the lot of children wherever they may be, without regard to geographical or social barriers. As the last part of the preamble states, mankind owes to the child the best it has to give. I will touch on the appropriate response to the international situation of children towards the end of my remarks, but I wish first of all and largely to concentrate on some aspects of the Australian situation- the child in our own backyardbecause here I believe there is no cause for apathy or complacency. 
I was stung into putting this matter on the Notice Paper by my constant attendance- I am sure other honourable senators have shared this experience during the year- at various celebrations, competitions and events to mark the International Year of the Child- all very happy, all very superficial, and perhaps helping to foster a general apathy or complacency in the community about the state of our children. As I want to demonstrate, the rights of our children in various ways are by no means guaranteed by the sort of society we have operating in Australia at the moment. There are three million children under 12 years of age in Australia, and it is concerning their rights that I wish to speak tonight, at least in part. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the Declaration of the Rights of the Child as promulgated by the United Nations. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

DECLARATION OF THE RIGHTS OF THE CHILD 
Preamble 
Whereas the peoples of the United Nations have in the Charter, reaffirmed their faith in fundamental human rights, and in the dignity and worth of the human person and have determined to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom. 
Whereas the United Nations has, in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights proclaimed that everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth therein, without distinction of any kind such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property binh or other status. 
Whereas the child, by reason of his physical and mental immaturity, needs special safeguards and care, including appropriate legal protection, before as well as after birth. 
Whereas the need for such special safeguards has been stated in the Geneva Declaration of the Rights of the Child of 1924 and recognised in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in the statutes of specialised agencies and international organisations concerned with the welfare of children. 
Whereas mankind owes to the child the best it has to give. 
Now therefore 
The General Assembly 
Proclaims this Declaration of the Rights of the Child to the end that he may have a happy childhood and enjoy for his own good and for the good of society the rights and freedoms herein set forth and calls upon parents, upon men and women as individuals and upon voluntary organisations, local authorities and national governments to recognise these rights and strive for their observance by legislative and other measures progressively taken in accordance with the following principles. 
Principle 1 
The child shall enjoy all the rights set forth in this Declaration. All children without any exception whatsoever shall be entitled to these rights, without distinction or discrimination on account of race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status, whether of himself or of his family. 
Principle 2 
The child shall enjoy special protection, and shall be given opportunities and facilities, by law and by other means, to enable him to develop physically, mentally, morally, spiritually and socially in a healthy and normal manner and in conditions of freedom and dignity. In the enactment of laws for this purpose the best interests of the child shall be the paramount consideration. 
Principle 3 
The child shall bc entitled from his birth to a name and a nationality. 
Principle 4 
The child shall enjoy the benefits of social security. He shall be entitled to grow and develop in health, to this end special care and protection shall be provided, both to him and to his mother, including adequate pre-natal and postnatal care. The child shall have the right to adequate nutrition, housing, recreation and medical services. 
Principle 5 
The child who is physically, mentally or socially handicapped shall be given the special treatment, education and care required by his particular condition. 
Principle 6 
The child, for the full and harmonious development of his personality, needs love and understanding. He shall wherever possible grow up in the care and under the responsibility of his parents, and in any case in an atmosphere of affection and or moral and material security, a child of tender years shall not, save in exceptional circumstances, be separated from his mother. Society and the public authorities shall have the duty to extend particular care to children without a family and to those without a family and to those without adequate means of support. Payment of state and other assistance toward the maintenance of children of large families is desirable. 
Principle 7 
The child is entitled to receive education, which shall be free and compulsory at least in the elementary stages. He shall be given an education which will promote his general culture and enable him on a basis of equal opportunity to develop his abilities, his individual judgment and his sense of moral and social responsibility and to become a useful member of society. 
The best interests of the child shall be the guiding principle of those responsible for his education and guidance, that responsibility lies in the first place with his parents. 
The child shall have full opportunity for play and recreation, which should be directed to the same purposes as education, society and the public authorities shall endeavour to promote the enjoyment of this right. 
Principle 8 
The child shall in all circumstances be among the first to receive protection and relief. 
Principle 9 
The child shall be protected against all forms of neglect, cruelty and exploitation. He shall not be the subject of traffic, in any form. 
The child shall not be admitted to employment before an appropriate minimum age he shall in no case be caused or permitted to engage in any occupation or employment which would prejudice his health or education, or interfere with his physical, mental or moral development. 
Principle 10 
The child shall be protected from practices which may foster racial, religious and any other form of discrimination. He shall be brought up in a spirit of understanding, tolerance, friendship among peoples, peace and universal brotherhood and in full consciousness that his energy and talents should be devoted to the service of his fellow men. 
I hope to take some areas from that Declaration of the Rights of the Child and describe practical concrete constructive steps which ought to be taken in order to secure some of those rights on behalf of these children. We have to secure their rights; they are inherent in them of course, but the most obvious fact about children is their dependence on us as adults to create the sort of society in which they can grow to maturity as loving and mature human beings. I am afraid that unless politicians and governments take some steps to leave a mark by way of concrete practical proposals on the statute book and administrative action, the whole year will evaporate in a series of sentimental happenings which leave no permanent imprint for the betterment of our children. I intend to take this United Nations Declaration of the Rights of the Child, which was adopted by the United Nations on 20 November 1959, and, looking at some of the 10 principles there outlined, reflect on the situation in Australia. 
May I firstly take principles 6 and 9. Amongst other things, principle 6 states: 
The child, for the full and harmonious development of this personality, needs love and understanding. . . . grow up . . . in an atmosphere of affection and of moral and material security; 
Principle 9 states: 
The child shall be protected against all forms of neglect, cruelty and exploitation. 
The major theme of 1979 must be to secure the child against gross maltreatment within the home, the very area in which a child should expect security and affectionate nurture and protection. There are powerless, voiceless children in our society who have been battered and sexually molested, and the community needs to bring this to its consciousness so that programs may be devised to deal with this tragic situation. I am not speaking in some abstract sense. One reads constantly of this sort of thing, as in the  Examiner  of 1 8 May of this year: 
A Hobart paediatrician claimed yesterday that there was an epidemic of child abuse in society. This was causing physical injury, neglect, emotional deprivation and even death. 
I notice that the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Wreidt,  has entered the chamber. It is well known from his contributions in this Senate that he has been most concerned about the physical disciplining of children within our educational system. I believe that that is only one instance of a general phenomenon in our society where violence is used against those who are the most defenceless and the most vulnerable- our children. I was told of a case in Hobart recently where a father, in order to cure a four-year-old boy of wetting the bed, placed him on the hotplate of the electric stove and seared his skin through. Unfortunately, that is by no means an uncommon event. Even in the resplendent isle of Tasmania about 100 such cases occur every year and are reported to the Child Protection Assessment Board, and even that number may be only the tip of the iceberg. Perhaps in Tasmania, with our smaller community, there may be fewer instances of battering of children than occur in the large anonymous cities of the mainland. It may be that very many cases go unreported simply because of ignorance of the easy steps which can be taken to alert a social worker, a teacher or a medical practitioner of suspected battery of this type without fear of defamation proceedings, which certainly are available in Tasmania, and I have no doubt in other States. One should pay a compliment to the innovative and largely successful work of those agencies in the various States which have grown up to deal with cases of child abuse. 
I am sure that all honourable senators will be as grieved as I am to know that any Australian child is subject to such battery, such physical abuse. We have to devise caring mechanisms which can alert us to situations where a child is really at risk. Luckily, medical research has indicated to us various criteria, which I will not detail but which can indicate to the family doctor, to a social worker or perhaps to the principal of a school that a child is at risk. There are indications in the mother-child bonding at birth. This has emerged as perhaps the most significant event in determining whether a child will be subject to physical abuse by the mother. This contact, this loving bond, has to be established as soon as possible after birth. I am told by medical practitioners that breast feeding is also reemerging as a most significant factor in establishing the psychological and nutritional well-being of the child in its relationship with its mother. As a bachelor, of course, I speak from books and conversations that I have had. 
-With ambitions. Let society encourage these various steps immediately after birth and in the early months of nurturing, and I am sure we will go a long way towards establishing bonds which will prevent subsequent abuse. 
But let us assume that a child really is at risk. What can the community do to support the family concerned? I emphasise both parts of that sentence: What can the community do to support the family concerned? The object must always be to maintain that family unit, however fragile, however desperately close it may be to breaking up. This may require removing the child from the family for a time. 
The agent for achieving a reintegration of the family must be the community itself. In a sense it is no good relying on something that is considered to be totally inadequate and incapable of working if total expectations are laid in paid professional social workers. Case loads are so extensive that social workers have not got the time which is emerging as the essence of the healing process in those families which are fractured and where the child is at risk. We need caring networks such as that established by Lifeline in Hobart, say, where 10 volunteers are trained under one social worker to go out, be with and talk to the bereaved, the chronically ill and the socially isolated. It has emerged that in cases where a child is at risk of battery by the mother in particular all that is needed is a woman who herself bears some of the battle scars of bringing up a family- perhaps her children have now grown up- and who has the time for the endless cups of tea needed to help the mother come to an understanding and to experience, perhaps, the love and affection from that older woman who bears the battle scars, so that the mother in turn can show some affection and love towards the child at risk. 
We need to ensure that funds from governments support those voluntary organisations which are prepared to tap that tremendous resource in the community and make it available for these families at risk. Also needed is the free installation of a telephone in those homes where a child has been battered or where the risk of battery is apparent. I totally support this. Many instances exist where, with access by the telephone to friends, relatives or the family medical practitioner, a crisis situation can be, if not resolved, then moderated. The cost of installing such a telephone would be infinitesimal compared with the social cost endured and borne by society eventually when a battery occurs and where medical and social treatment is required for the child and the family. People must be able, in a crisis situation, to pick up a telephone and seek to talk with somebody whom they trust. As to the second type of child abuse- the sexual- I intend to say a few words about incest. There is no doubt that incest is the most prevalent form of child abuse in Australia. The situation is highly inimical to the family unit. As the Evatt Royal Commission on Human Relationships says on page 224 of its report: 
Incest is highly disruptive of the family unit. Not only does it impair the individual's capacity for general social relationships but it also disorganises the relationships within the family, leading to a confusion of roles. 
There is no doubt in my mind that society must express its view by retaining incest within its criminal codes. I totally oppose those who suggest that this particular offence ought to be removed from the criminal codes of the various States or Territories. Incest ought to remain as a crime, as an expression of society's opinion. But I moderate that view in this sense: It should be remembered that there will be occasions when a girl in her young teens perhaps will have to recount in a formal way three or four times in the legal process the incident or incidents with her close relative. This could lead to a situation of a father, say, being convicted, shame being brought and, if the father is imprisoned, further fracturing of the family. In many cases because of the dominant psychological position of the father, the girl may have formed quite an affectionate relationship with him. The actual trauma of going through the various stages of the legal processes leading to resolution by the courts can, in fact, have a far more damaging psychological effect on the girl concerned than the incident itself. It may be that in those instances where a panel of a senior police officer and a social worker determines that that might be the case, the Attorney-General should be able to exercise a discretion to have the matter dealt with outside the court system. I take it that it would be a fairly isolated situation where that discretion would have to be exercised. 
I raise this aspect only because I find that people will not admit that sexual abuse is the last frontier of child abuse.  Mr Ray  Willich, who is the Superintendent of Allambie, a Victorian Government receiving centre for wards of state, has published a notable book called  The Troubled Ones  about emotionally and physically battered children. He draws on his experience at the receiving centre. Based on his own experience and on projections of United States figures, he believes that probably 20,000 Australian children are abused sexually each year. About 3,000 of these would involve father-daughter incest. As he says: 
This is the last frontier of child abuse. 
He goes on: 
While protecting children from physical abuse has become a priority in modern society, protecting them from sexual abuse is far from our collective conscience. 
It is the need to activate that collective consciousness that impels me to make mention of that particular abuse of children tonight. The United Nations Declaration of the Rights of the Child states that a child is entitled as of right to a situation of moral and emotional security. 
Yes, equal with an adult. The declaration states that the child is entitled to be protected from cruelty and exploitation. One can think- perhaps we have been blessed in our families- that this is not applicable to an affluent and easy going society like Australia and that those rights do not need to be fought for and secured on behalf of our children; but, in fact, they do. It is necessary that we, particularly as politicians with an ability to change laws where necessary and to speak in public forums to change public consciousness, speak of these things. As unemployment grows and as more male breadwinners find themselves trapped, as it were, back at home in a situation to which they are unaccustomed with small children under their feet hour after hour- these people are low in self-esteem because of lack of employment and are frustrated- they will take out their frustrations on the small children who are under their feet. This has occurred. It is shown from statistics in the United States. I have no doubt that the same picture will emerge as statistics are gathered in the face of growing unemployment. This is even so in a situation of static unemployment where certain people suffer long term unemployment. 
Let me point to another right only briefly as I understand some other honourable senators probably will speak on this matter. Principle 7 speaks of the right to receive an education. I will not dwell on this matter except to say that what is worrying people around the community is, no doubt, the formation of the outlook of our children. This is what education, after all, is all about. There is no doubt that there is a general awareness that it is not schooling any more, that it is not even the peer group. It is certainly not parents or the church which dominantly is forming the outlook of our children; it is the ubiquitous television. It is that to which our children are exposed hour after hour. As  Senator Davidson's  committee reported to this Senate some time ago, even the average viewing for an Australian youngster is three hours per day, seven days per week, 52 weeks of the year- well over 1 ,000 hours per year. It is far more than any other activity apart from sleep, if we can call sleep activity. 
Conscious activity, I thank the honourable senator. What I am trying to say is that it consumes more time than any other conscious activity- certainly far more than schooling or exposure to parental guidance. I have no doubt that  Senator Davidson  may wish to say something about this new technology. We have never, in our society, adapted socially quickly enough to technological change, and television is of course no exception. The right to education, therefore, certainly cannot be guaranteed to a child simply by ensuring that it has a certain number of hours of schooling of a certain quality. Education is much wider than schooling, as we all know, and as I say the major formation of our children is taking place perhaps in television studios, out of the control of school, parents, and other social influences. But I will leave that to some other senator to comment upon. The preamble to this Declaration of the Rights of the Child says, amongst other things:   . . the child, by reason  or  his physical and mental immaturity, needs special safeguards and care, including appropriate legal protection, before as well as after birth. 
I want to reflect on that call for special legal protection of children before as well as after birth. Perhaps I could deal with the situation of small children and youngsters in relation to the legal system itself. Here I want to remark briefly on the need to protect youngsters from the improper processing within the legal system, amounting to harassment in many cases, which in some instances takes place at the hands of the police in the conduct of their investigations. Let me just bring to the attention of the Senate, so that honourable senators do not think I am just being theoretical about this, a case commented upon in the  Bulletin  of 16 June 1978 concerning a 13- year-old boy called Peter who was in a home for young people. He was not a ward of a state home but he had been removed from his mother's care, although she was in daily contact with him. The police suspected this young fellow of being involved in a Fagin-type gang, breaking and entering into homes and stealing, organised by an older man. 
On a particular Wednesday, two detectives in a police car arrived at the shelter where the boy was. This was at 9 o'clock in the morning. He was taken back to his local police station where the same detective as had inquired about these crimes before was waiting to question him. The questioning went on for five hours, the mother not being informed, before the detective gave him a doughnut and half a sandwich, and then ate four rolls in front of him. He was given nothing to drink. At one stage he was taken out in a police car to several of the houses which he had broken into. In the afternoon the questioning ended and he was locked in a cell. He stayed there alone until it was dark. Then he was taken out and the questioning began again. He was put in a police car and driven to two more houses, and eventually he was told that if he was truthful he would be given some chips and coke. It seems that he was truthful because he wrote another statement and got his chips. Shortly before 1 1 p.m., after being with the police since 9 o'clock that morning, he was taken back to the shelter and the police had their case sewn up. At no stage had the mother or any adult friend been notified that he was in that situation. 
I would not confine this happening to any particular State, but in fact that was a situation in Sydney. I believe it occurs from time to time probably in many jurisdictions throughout the Commonwealth. The question is, even if it occurred only once, how to remedy the situation. It is true that many police regulations and arrangements do encourage or seemingly require the police to notify parents or adult friends when a child is taken in for questioning. But those regulations are not always honoured, and therefore I think it is incumbent upon Parliaments, by enactment, to ensure that children are not questioned in circumstances such as I have outlined. The Tasmanian Parliament expects shortly to have introduced a Bill on criminal investigation which, amongst other things- and this emerged from a committee of which I had the privilege to be  Chairman-  will stipulate that when a child under 16 is under police restraint, his parent or guardian should be immediately notified, and that no questioning of a child under 16 should take place except in the presence of a parent, relative, adult friend, lawyer, welfare officer or teacher. These seem to me to be minimum requirements in order to secure the child, as the Declaration says, against situations where he is unable to contend for himself because of his physical and emotional immaturity. 
If I could speak now of the requirement in the preamble that special legal protection be given to the child before birth, here I simply want to consider a surprising gap which was revealed in our common law system by the thalidomide incident. Honourable senators will recall the incident some years ago when children were born with multiple and gross deformities as a result of the mother taking a sedative, 1 think it was, which had been insufficiently tested by the major drug company which distributed it for sale. In fact, despite all the bluff and the various actions in the English High Court, there was no legal process by which the parents could take that company to court to get monetary compensation for the sheer financial loss they may have suffered in meeting the medical and other expenses in dealing with the child 's deformity, and of course no compensation or damages were available for the emotional shock and the continuing emotional situation which that family might face. It seems to me that it would be an elementary but significant step forward if the parliaments of Australia passed laws which would allow damages to be recoverable for injuries inflicted on a child while it was within the womb, that is, injuries which led to its disabling, which was evident upon birth. 
He probably played the same role as counsel did in England, namely, a semipolitical role where the courts are used in order to build up such pressure that the company eventually comes to a reasonable settlement. But as I say, there is no legal right inherent in the family concerned to recover damages for injuries suffered by the child while in the womb, which injuries become manifest upon the live birth of that child. The law may even go further, of course, and it would need to be considered whether negligent action by some third party resulting in such an injury ought not to permit a claim in damages. There is the simple straightforward case, of course, of the negligent driver who injures a child while it is within the womb of the mother, in other words, a pregnant woman who is herself involved in a car accident due to the negligence of another person, and the child is born suffering manifest injuries caused by that accident. That is a simple case, and I know that the common law is moving to give damages in that instance. There are harder cases where perhaps the mother herself has been negligent in exposing the child to the possibility of injury by continuing with some drug which has a deleterious effect on the child, whether it be a hard drug or aspirin or alcohol, all of which, as we all know, do have a deleterious effect on the foetus and can result in the child 's being born with some illness or propensity for weakness. There are many instances of mothers continuing to expose themselves to diseases. I am not speaking of the unfortunate, sad incidents when that happens quite accidentally; I am saying that perhaps the law should look at the situation of a mother continuing to expose herself to a situation which will result in an injury to the child. I was shocked to go into a ward of a maternity hospital- Gore Street Hospital, which  Senator Walters  will know well- in Hobart to see young girls, within 24 hours perhaps of giving birth, smoking so heavily that the room was just filled with cigarette smoke. Yet one knows that that has an adverse effect on a child. 
I would include marihuana. I had hoped that  Senator Walters  would not raise that matter, as she did in a letter to the  Examiner  when I was abroad. That was brought to my attention today. I would include marihuana if it were established that the taking of marihuana by the mother had a deleterious effect on the foetus, in the same way and to the same extent as I am speaking of her negligently, blameworthily taking any drug which affected the foetus. That is entirely consistent with my speech on marihuana to the Senate in which I said that whilst the social and recreational use of marihuana by a person should not attract a criminal penalty, criminal penalties should be retained when the taking of marihuana is combined with, for example, the driving of a motor vehicle or the using of industrial machinery where that could have a harmful effect on others. So, if it is proved that the taking of marihuana by a pregnant mother has a harmful effect on another, namely, the child in the womb, I would only be consistent- there is no question of my being inconsistent- in saying that my principle would apply, that perhaps we should be thinking of introducing legislation which makes it clear that the mother has a duty of care, which the community will enforce towards the child within the womb. 
What I am trying to say is that at the moment, given the fact that the law does not provide for compensation for children injured while within the womb, we have hundreds, perhaps thousands, of literally born losers coming into our community without receiving the financial compensation which might make their growing into maturity somewhat easier on their parents and families, who have to support them with their deformity or injury. Therefore, I feel that in order to fulfil the requirements of that part of the preamble, society ought to be looking to its statutes. 
I had intended to touch on the international dimension. I refrain from doing so because of the time and because some other senators may wish to speak on the matter. I have probably spoken for too long in any case. 
As I have been encouraged to continue, I refer honourable senators to Principle 3 of the Declaration of the Rights of the Child, which states: 
The child shall be entitled from his birth to a name and a nationality. 
That passed me by when I first read it, but Principle 8 states: 
The child shall in all circumstances be among the. first to receive protection and relief. 
On reading those principles together, the penny dropped. Who are the children around the world without the protection of any government, effectively without any nationality, with no government willing to offer them protection and security- the ones most in need, having first claim to receive protection and relief? There is no doubt that the answer lies in the stunted, malnourished children of the refugee camps, whether they be in Malaysia, Thailand, Hong Kong or the Philippines. I hope that the emphasis in what I have said so far, in considering the children in our own backyard, will not be misinterpreted as a selfish concern for our own children. 
It is a world-wide problem. I am thinking, though, that in Australia what politicians need to do is to devise programs and to allow programs to be devised by voluntary groups which enable us to do what we can do, perhaps what we ought to do, because of the physical contiguity of the people in the refugee camps of South East Asia. Of course, we can be concerned about and try to ameliorate conditions in South America, the Indian sub-continent, Africa and other places, both by way of sending relief aid and by supporting organisations striving for internal social justice in the countries concerned. 
Another good point is the fact that regrettably, as the International Labour Organisation has pointed out time and time again, but more recently in this Year of the Child, child labour is still a very widespread practice in many countries. It took a Dickens to alert the Englishspeaking world to the plight of children in sweat shops, which he had had to endure while his father was in the debtors' prison. It took his pen, dipped in memories of his own experience, and his compassionate writings to alert the Englishspeaking world to the plight of those children. What we need is another Dickens to arise and expose, as  Senator Puplick  has pointed out, the plight of those children who are still in a situation of slavery in other cultures of the world. As I was saying, my remarks perhaps have concentrated on the child in our own backyard. Perhaps that is not a bad thing really because who are we to preach to those other countries if we have not remedied situations in which children effectively are deprived of their rights within Australia? 
1 hope that Aboriginals will be spoken of by some other honourable senator if the opportunity presents itself. If I may, I will come to the end of my remarks. I did not wish unduly to dwell on the more vulnerable and depressing aspects of being a child. Thank God, that is not the total story and perhaps it is not the  story  at all in the case of many, if not most, of our Australian children. But I reiterate that I wished to make these remarks for the reason I outlined in my opening remarks, namely, that there is no cause for complacency. This year must not be allowed to fritter away in sentimentality, celebrations, events and competitions with which we all as politicians have been associated during this year. We need to leave a mark on our statute books, in our laws, in our administrative arrangements, in our very practicable, constructive, concrete encouragement of voluntary organisations, whereby the rights of children as outlined in the United Nations Declaration are indeed secured. Much has to be done. I have no doubt that the goodwill and the energy of Australians will ensure that it is done. 
-I move: 
That the Senate- 
is of the opinion that the taxation system is inequitable because of its erosion by tax avoidance schemes, many of which have been approved by the High Court; 
expresses its grave concern at the recent increase in the use of these schemes by many persons, thus shifting the tax burden unfairly on to other Australians and denying the Government money for its programs; and 
requests the Government to urgently introduce such legislative and administrative measures as will ensure that all Australians contribute their fair share to the nation's revenue. 
This motion deals with the crippling consequences to our national life of the activities of tax avoiders, people whom I have described as the real subversives in our society. These tax bludgers, if I can call them such, who enjoy all the benefits of living within a democratic representative society, a wealth producing society, refuse to contribute their fair share to the nation's revenue thereby undermining the whole fabric of our society. This is not an overstatement of the situation. If I might refer to an article by Tony Thomas in the  Age  of 3 August, he begins by stating: 
The tax avoidance industry has taken Australia by the throat. The top stratum of income earners, with a few honourable exceptions, has virtually ceased paying tax. 
The Budget statements of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and his statement on 1 August, three weeks before the Budget, confirm this fact. In his statement on 1 August he admitted that claims for deductions from assessable income then totalling $1,41 lm had been made in respect of the 1977-78 income year under tax avoidance arrangements. I emphasise, it was $1,41 lm in that particular year. In the Budget itself, we know from page 5 of the Budget Speech that: 
. in preparing this year's estimates of revenue, it has been necessary to allow a sum of $250m to cover further possible loss of revenue through tax avoidance. 
That would be a very conservative amount being set aside, as was pointed out in the speech by  Senator Evans  last night. The consequences of this disease, which has reached epidemic proportions, is to affect every aspect of Budget and fiscal policy. Much of the Government's domestic bond raising is directed simply to filling the hole blasted in the revenue by tax avoidance schemes. Money supply balloons unexpectedly and escapes the Government's predictions and control. In short, Budget deficit overruns, insofar as they are attributable to revenue shortfalls, are attributable almost entirely to tax avoidance. 
My motion claims that the tax system has become inequitable, and it is so in several senses. Firstly, the sheer volume, complexity and obscurity of the present Tax Act, which is a direct result of the piecemeal combatting of tax avoidance schemes, means that the taxpayer is no longer certain of his real tax liability, or at least he is certain that if he is going to pay what at first glance is his tax liability he is probably something of a tax mug and that he ought to be taking advantage of this complex, obscure set of provisions which now cover so many pages of our statute book. But secondly, and perhaps more crucially, the tax system has become inequitable because the tax avoidance industry corrodes the very fabric of society. It creates inequity between taxpayers who are earning the same income, that is, it creates a horizontal inequity, and it also creates inequity between taxpayers who ought to be contributing a greater percentage of their income according to their greater capacity to pay, that is, there is a vertical inequity also. This inequity between taxpayers is, I believe, eating away that social cohesion which should obtain between citizens in a free and democratic society contributing to the programs of their government. As the  Weekend Australian  of 28-29 July stated: 
Tax must bc cut. But while we wait, the bitter tax pill is easier to swallow if we all chew it together. 
It is this inability of some to admit their social obligation to swallow that bitter pill of taxation that I am directing my remarks to tonight. There are two arguments that one quite often hears in defence of these tax avoidance arrangements. I would like to deal with them briefly. They are offered as a justification for refusing to contribute to the nation's coffers. 
Firstly, it is simply stated, and quite openly, that present tax rates are crippling. I do not intend to argue with that point, but I would bring to the attention of the Senate, of course,  Mr Howard's  contention against  Mr Joh  BjelkePetersen, the Premier of Queensland, that in fact, when one looks at comparative Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries, Australia is by no means a really heavily taxed country. But insofar as income tax scales do place heavy burdens on Australians, is it not obvious that this situation can only be exacerbated, and can in no way be ameliorated, by tax avoidance? It seems very clear that we are here in a totally circular situation. The fact is that higher rates of taxation need to be struck by government in order to make up revenue caused by tax avoidance. It is a reasonable assumption that the rates must now be calculated by Treasury through the Taxation Office on the assumption that a growing proportion of persons who are notionally liable will avoid the payment of tax. 
The only way for tax scales to be moderated is for tax avoidance to cease. If everyone contributed his fair share to the raising of necessary revenue, then clearly the proportion asked of each taxpayer would be less than at present. At the present moment, to the contrary, the burden falls heavily and more heavily on the payasyouearn middle income earner than on the selfemployed or professional class. The fact is that the tax budren in our community has been moving inexorably away from the professional classes to the PAYE taxpayer, the ordinary wage or salary earner who does not have access to advice and who does not have the opportunity to arrange his affairs in such a way as would enable him to take advantage of tax avoidance schemes. This is easily illustrated if I point out that for the period 1966-67 to 1978-79, total tax collections from PAYE increased by 20.7 per cent, while collections from non-PAYE taxpayers actually fell by 5 per cent. At the same time the number of wage and salary earners increased by 0.8 per cent, but the number of non-PAYE taxpayers increased much faster, by 2.9 per cent. Incomes of PAYE taxpayers increased by 1 7 per cent between the December quarter 1976 and the December quarter 1978, and in the same period non-wage and salary incomes increased by a massive 37 per cent. But as I have pointed out, collections from those latter non-PAYE taxpayers actually fell by 5 per cent. 
It is obvious that there is a growing inequity in the way in which the tax burden falls now on those who cannot escape their PAYE obligations by use of tax avoidance schemes. This is creating such inequity that, I believe, resentment within the community is growing to quite an extent, such that there will be a tax revolt, not by those who are already pandered to in the Press, seeking to gratify their selfish greed, but by the ordinary honest PAYE taxpayer who knows that he is a mug in paying according to the scales which appear on his tax sheets. The ordinary, decent taxpayer will revolt, and in fact his organisations are beginning to make the same points. I refer to a letter in the  Age  of Saturday, 4 August, from  Mr Bob  Gradwell, Federal Secretary of the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations, in which, amongst other things, he says:  lt is manifestly unjust and socially disastrous for salary and wage earners to be slugged, as they currently are, while too many wealthy professionals and self-employed persons are paying either no income tax at all or very little. 
Unless something is done we will be creating a divisive situation within the Australian community between people who earn their income by different methods, and therefore can take or are unable to take advantage of tax avoidance schemes. 
The second argument that one hears is that there is some metaphysical or practical distinction between tax avoidance and tax evasion. It is supposed that tax evasion- the simplest example would be not declaring income from a second job- is illegal and ought to be punished severely, whereas tax avoidance is something which everyone ought to take advantage of, if possible, in that the transaction itself is not illegal. Parliament has never taken the view that there is such a simple distinction between tax evasion and tax avoidance. Section 260 of the Act itself embodies the view of the Parliament- the elected representatives of this country- that certain transactions entered into, whilst legal in themselves and allowed to stand in relation to every other aspect of their operation, ought not to have any effect against the Commonwealth revenue, and tax avoidance is thereby branded by this Parliament as anti-social and therefore null and void as against the Treasury. 
It is more effective and I will come to the reason. It is more effective, not because Parliament has agreed with the proposition that tax avoidance is good whilst tax evasion is evil; tax avoidance has become effective because it has been aided and abetted, I regret to say, by a non-elected and therefore, in a strict sense, politically irresponsible bench of judges. I refer to the High Court of Australia. It has to be said that there is no doubt that the High Court, by its legalistic interpretation of section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, has completely vitiated the intention of the Parliament in drawing up that section. That is well known throughout the community. Obviously it is no new comment. In the Melbourne  Age  of Wednesday, 8 August, an article entitled 'How the wealthy escape taxes ' begins: 
The tax avoiders who romped off with the $400 million at the expense of wage earners in 1978-79, are filled with gratitude towards the judges of our High Court. 
Espcecially  remembered in their prayers is the Chief Justice,  Sir Garfield  Barwick. 

 Sir Garfield's tax judgments are marvels of legal subtlety, but it seems they can cost ordinary Australian taxpayers about $ 100 million a pop. 

 Mr Deputy President, that article is couched in terms which I normally would not adopt. It is the language of a journalist, but I think it adequately conveys the understanding now within the community that the High Court has abandoned principles of interpretation used in our courts since the sixteenth century, when one looked to the mischief and to the intent in order to determine the effect of the words actually used in a statute. There is no doubt that what is needed in order to solve this impasse, this confrontation between the Parliament and the High Court- I think it is that- is for the Parliament to come up with a new taxation provision. 
The piecemeal approach has proved totally inadequate, not only because there is a delay in discovery of and dealing with tax avoidance schemes as they proliferate, not only because the tax avoidance industry is, by its nature, hydraheaded no sooner is one head cut down than 10 spring up in its place- but also because the piecemeal approach to dealing with tax avoidance schemes continues the very atmosphere of a sporting contest, the very atmosphere where the fortunes of the game fluctuate. I think this creates an impression in the community that if one can get away with it well and good, one has beaten the tax man and it is up to him to come up with a remedy, if he can, in time for the next financial year. The piecemeal approach encourages that contest atmosphere. 
Clearly, what is needed is that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  must, and I believe will, at the earliest opportunity- certainly before the Christmas parliamentary recess, one would hopebring forward a new section 260, a new, succinctly stated, comprehensive formula, which restates this Parliament's contention that tax avoidance schemes should be rendered totally ineffective against the revenue. We ought to be able to say quite simply that when a transaction is entered into with the dominant intention, objectively viewed, of avoiding, evading, or defeating the provisions of taxation legislation or of altering the incidence of taxation, such a transaction should be ineffective to carry out that intent. Of course, the Commissioner of Taxation would need to have regard to ordinary family and commercial dealings when viewing transactions, but once the dominant intention of avoidance is established, all the sham should be exposed for what it is, a mere artifice of greed, and should have no effect against the revenue. 
I look forward to the introduction of the provisions which the Treasurer has indicated he wishes to bring to this Parliament before the Christmas parliamentary recess. I believe that at the moment it is in the hands of private counsel. But whatever it is and however it emerges from this Parliament, I believe that it would be a very fool-hardy High Court which would then attempt to water down by legalistic interpretation that new statement of the firm view of the elected representatives of the ordinary taxpayers in this country. We are not to be frustrated in that regard by a non-elected and, as I said, therefore in the strict sense politically irresponsible, bench of judges 1 wish to say some words about retrospectivity. I believe that that matter was dealt with most comprehensively by  Senator Evans  in his speech last night. 1 simply say, for the purpose of the completeness of my remarks, that the Opposition believes that the Treasurer, whom I congratulate on the steps he has taken in dealing with many schemes, could be more robust in his approach, in that we see nothing inimical to our common law traditions that would prevent his backdating dealing with tax avoidance schemes which he has identified, not merely to the date on which he announces such identification but at least to the beginning of the financial year and perhaps even, in some circumstances, back to the date of their creation. 
I think  Senator Evans  pointed out that, in the experience of the very country which gives us our abhorrence in normal circumstances of retrospective legislation having penal consequences, the judiciary in the form of Lord Green, Master of the Rolls back in 1942, and previous and current English Chancellors of the Exchequer- both the judicial and political wings of the English system- have agreed that retrospective tax legislation is a necessary part of the arsenal of society against those people who would undermine the very fabric of society by denying revenue to government and by creating unfairness between citizens who are taxpayers. 
It is with that in mind that I return to my opening remarks. Tax avoiders are the real subversives in present day Australian society. They deliberately deny revenue to the elected government. They create a very widespread sense of unfairness between pay-as-you-earn taxpayers and those who can obtain their incomes in some other way. So my final suggestion is that the Treasurer should look very seriously at the penalties imposed on the major and blatant tax avoiders. I do not believe that fines, penalties, or even imprisonment, are an adequate expression of the community's outrage at those tax bludgers. I just realised that I sounded a little like Ayatollah Tate. 
Yes, it did. 
No, I am not. I noted that section 39 (4) of the Commonwealth Electoral Act states, among other things: 
No person . . . attainted of treason . . . shall be entitled to have his name placed on or retained on any roll or to vote at any Senate election or House of Representatives election. 
In my view- I say this seriously- those subversive characters should be placed in exactly that limbo, beyond the realm where ordinary, honest citizens participate in the democratic process. To put it in a slogan, and with due reference, deference and respect to the American Revolution: No representation without taxation. Let those people who live within the protection of our representative democracy contribute to its maintenance according to their means. If they demonstrate an unwillingness to so contribute their fair share, let them be stripped of any influence on its councils of government and let them be known as such non-citizens by the rest of the community. In other words, they ought to lose their right to vote at Federal elections. They are undermining society. They are refusing to contribute their fair share to the revenues of elected government for its programs, democratically arrived at, and they are creating gross unfairness between various sectors in the community. Therefore, I repeat, in regard to those people, those subversive elements, those tax avoiders, our attitude shoud be: No representation without taxation. 
-The public listening to the broadcast of this debate and members of the public in the gallery would have been shocked to have heard the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  say that the Labor Party is wasting the time of the Senate in bringing to the public's attention the well known fact that as young families seek to raise money in order to buy a home and furnish it, to clothe themselves and to buy a motor vehicle, they are faced with crippling interest rates. It is all very well for  Senator Carrick  to say that eight methods of finance are traditionally available within the Australian community. There might be eight, eighteen, eighty or eight hundred. The question is: How is the Australian public being moved towards one or other of a particular type of extension of credit? In being moved towards a particular type of extension of credit, is the Australian public being asked to pay an exorbitant rate of interest? There is no doubt that of the various methods of credit available in the Australian community the advertising pressure and pressures put by bank managers on applicants for loans are such that the Australian public is being inexorably moved to the use of the credit card system known as Bankcard. I will return to that aspect later. 
-What is wrong with it,  Senator, is  that it charges an 1 8 per cent interest rate per annum, whereas the personal loan which one ought normally, traditionally, be able to obtain runs at something like 10 per cent. Even the unsecured personal loans run at about 1 5 or 1 6 per cent. The bank managers whom an applicant sees have an interest in taking that applicant away from the traditional methods of obtaining credit, some of which  Senator Carrick  outlined, towards the Bankcard method. I will come to that later. 

 Senator Carrick also made the statement, in his usual tirade against the former Whitlam Government, that it was that Government that, more than any other, destroyed, as he said, consumer purchasing power. That charge can well be levelled at the present Government and is being levelled by many sectors of the community as they observe the depression in real wages and the failure to honour the promise on tax indexation. Both those factors are creating a situation where the disposable income of Australian households is much less than it was two, three or four years ago. This is not just Labor Party socialist propaganda. One should read the comments of  Mr David  Block, a director of the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd; he is hardly a doctrinaire socialist. In this week's  National Time's  he says: 
A few weeks ago I was sitting down with one former Ambassador to China Stephen Fitzgerald and we were talking about a nation in which the leadership had actually created a declining real wage for its people. 
That's what the Gang of Four did. That's what the Government is doing to Australia '. 
It is well known to everyone in the gallery and everyone listening to this broadcast that the Government has also failed to honour its promise to keep governments honest by maintaining indexation of taxation. In both these ways, by deliberate government decision, the purchasing power of Australian consumers, Australian households, has declined dramatically in the last two or three years. This has forced consumers, without the readily disposable income to buy the items they require and need, to seek loans. They need to borrow, to buy credit and to commit themselves and their families to repay principal and interest. Here, the Government's failure to lower interest rates as it promised- it partially won an election on this issue- is well known. 
On 2 December 1977, as an election promise, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said he would reduce interest rates by 2 per cent. What interest rate did we have in July of this year, compared with the 9.5 per cent rate which was in operation in December 1977? We had a rate of 10.07 per cent in the long term bond rate. In other words, it is clear that over the last year or two the long term bond rate has been edging up. That is the most significant indicator of the failure of this Government to honour its promise to lower interest rates. In fact, interest rates are increasing at that very basic level. That must work through the whole of the eight traditional methods which  Senator Carrick  outlined. Therefore, not only is the assertion within the matter of public importance which the Labor Party has brought to this Senate true, but also is it substantiated by that basic increasing long term bond rate. 
This failure of the Government to honour its promise to lower interest rates is one of the most damaging features of its record, damaging to its credibility and damaging to the whole of the Australian economy. As one moves around the electorate- this is not perceived by  Senator Carrick-  one finds that there is nothing more terrifying for the average family than the failure of interest rates to decline as was promised and which seemed possible at some times. There is a massive insecurity and unease in the Australian community, a community that should be, given our wealth producing capacity, able to provide goods, services, homes, motor vehicles, clothing and furniture to all Australian families without their having to seek loans. They have to seek loans because ofthe Government's policy to reduce disposable real wages and other support for persons and families. They have to go out and seek loans- to get an extension of credit. 
I will elaborate a little on two areas in which the Government could have acted to reduce interest rates and in which it has failed to do so. I make no apology for taking, as did  Senator Gietzelt,  Bankcard as a symbol of the Government's failure to act where it ought to have acted. It is well known that the cartel of banks which operates the Bankcard system was exempted- I admit, by a Labor government- from the provisions of the Trade Practices Act to enable that system of extending credit to be established. But with what result? It is now five years since that system was established. We can now look back and say that the result has been that the banking system has been able to move the average consumer of credit away from some of the traditional methods, which  Senator Carrick  outlined, towards that 18 per cent per annum interest rate extension of credit. Short term consumer credit according to traditional methods has been completely circumvented by that campaign, which has been massively advertised and which has been supported by bank managers. 
Many of us in ordinary contact with constituents know of cases in which clients of banks have approached banks for personal loans and, thinking that they would be walking out with a personal loan at an interest rate of 10 per cent per annum, have found themselves with a Bankcard loan carrying a risk that if they cannot meet the deadline of 25 days after the end of the month they will pay interest at a rate equivalent to 1 8 per cent per annum. It is obviously in the interest ofthe banks to move clients in that way. It would be surprising indeed if bank managers did not encourage' persons to use Bankcard rather than resort to the traditional methods outlined by  Senator Carrick.  But what is most disturbing is that, as I said, five years after the establishment of the Bankcard cartel, with all the privileges which that implies in its not being exposed to the normal operation of the Trade Practices Act, one finds the same interest rate applying now as obtained in 1 974. 
I have already said that the system was established by a Labor government. At that time 1 8 per cent per annum was established as a non-competitive interest ratebecause, as we have said, the Trade Practices Act was not to apply- a rate which was thought necessary to establish that method of extending credit. It was a rate which was struck in order to enable the banks to get back their initial investment over a certain period of years. Such has been the massive advertising campaign, such has been the convenience- which it would be wrong not to admit- of that method of obtaining credit, that the banks very quickly and sooner than expected have got back their initial investment and are now making what are suspected to be tremendous and exorbitant profits. 
I am not against the making of ordinary profits, but what surely is not to be permitted is that, at a time when inflation rates compared with the situation since 1 974, have been reduced the same rate of interest of 18 per cent per annum is being charged for Bankcard. The Australian Labor Party states, as it stated in 1974, that the rate of interest for Bankcard should not exceed something like 4 per cent above the current inflation rate. That would mean that, if the Labor Party were in power today and if it were extending the same privileges to the bank cartel as is now accorded it, the interest rate for Bankcard would be something like 14 per cent per annum. That would be a reasonable and, surely, an acceptable rate of interest to the banks. However, we cannot be sure that it would be acceptable because this Government refuses to require the banks, which exist in the Bankcard cartel by grace of government, to reveal the bad debts situation, for example, of the use of that method of extending credit. We can only suspect that it is certainly better than the bad debts situation of unsecured personal loans. But the actual rate of interest is far higher than that charged by banks for unsecured personal loans. That is just one of the anomalies of the present situation. 
Last year Bankcard extended $1.7 billion worth of credit to Australian consumers of credit. At an 18 per cent per annum rate of interest for those people who fail to meet the 25-day date line, the banks must be making a profit which has more than returned to them their original investment and is providing more than a reasonable profit thereafter.  Senator Carrick  raised the matter of mortgages as a traditional way of raising finance. I am surprised that he did so because his Government recently announced the destruction of a mechanism which was established when liberalism meant liberalism, before the new conservatism took over. It was a mechanism which was to enable consumers of homes- home purchasers- to obtain their loans at a lesser interest rate than they would otherwise have to pay in an untrammelled market. No less a Liberal identity than  Sir Robert  Menzies said, in his Liberal Party policy speech of 1963, in commenting on the problem which young home buyers faced in purchasing a home: 
. we will assist the obtaining of low deposit loans related to the income and reasonable credit-worthiness of the borrower. We will do this by a system of insurance by a National Housing Insurance Corporation. 
That Corporation was established. It was innovative. It was helpful. It led to a situation in which the housing industry was led into a new era based on smaller deposits and longer repayment periods for loans. The Housing Loans Insurance Corporation was the first in the home loan mortgage insurance field and it led the way for others. That Corporation is to be destroyed by government edict- an ideological, philosophical move which will lead to a situation, which was commented on by the General Manager in Australia of the multinational American-owned Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Corporation of Australia. He said that his company, in the light of the Government's destruction of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation, which had been innovative and which had helped to keep interest rates for housing loans low, was now considering an increase in its interest rates after 1 8 months of underwriting losses. He said: 
Rates have been forced down by the HLIC but when it goes to  private  enterprise things will be different ... It will be better for everyone. 
Of course, it will be better for those who are extending credit to the hard-pressed home buyers of Australia. Obviously, it will not be better for those home buyers. It is yet another illustration of the Government's failure to be fair dinkum in looking after the interests of consumers throughout Australia. That was well exemplified in this chamber earlier this year with the emasculation of the Prices Justification Tribunal, which turned it from a consumers' watchdog into a lap dog for the Executive Government of the day. The failure of the Government to keep down interest rates when consumers without disposable household incomes are forced to get loans for their ordinary homes, motor vehicles, furniture and other household goods, is an indictment and we make no apology for raising the issue as a matter of public importance. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that surveillance work along 3,000 kilometres of the Western Australian coast, between Geraldton and Big Island, is being undertaken by Trans- West Air Charter Pty Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Zung Fu Co. Ltd of Hong Kong? Is it also a fact that in April of this year, as 1 outlined previously in a question in this Senate, a quarantine team was left on a Northern Territory beach for some 36 hours without a radio while a private charterer went about his other commercial business? Will the Minister support an urgent reference to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the question of this dependence on private charterers, some foreign-owned, for Australia's surveillance operations, given the failure to establish an Australian coastguard service? Further, will the Minister reconsider his earlier refusal of my request that an armed forces helicopter be stationed in Darwin to respond to sightings of vessels or aircraft which might be breaching our quarantine laws or engaging in smuggling or illegal entry? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is the Minister aware of the widespread breakdown of the federal bankruptcy jurisdiction throughout Australia? I refer particularly to the payment of dividends to creditors. For example, is it a fact that with an unprecedented increase in the number of bankruptcies in Tasmania this calendar year- estimated to increase from an average of 160 to 280- no dividends to creditors have been paid since the beginning of this calendar year? Will the Government give urgent priority to relieving the distress of many thousands of creditors by appointing sufficient staff to overcome this critical situation? 

 -Mr Deputy President, I am merely taking the time of the Senate for a  few  moments to elaborate on a question I asked  on Tuesday, concerning the breakdown, as I claimed it, of the Federal bankruptcy jurisdiction throughout Australia. I was referring to the non-payment of dividends by Official Receivers offices, I believe in many of the districts throughout Australia, but with particular reference to the Tasmanian situation. It seems that under the strain of increased bankruptcies throughout Australia Official Receivers offices are finding it impossible to allocate staff to give to creditors what is their due and what is available. I want to bring to the Senate 's attention a particular case- that of Messrs S. R. and P. Clements who live on the east coast of Tasmania. I merely bring it forward as an example of the difficulties which creditors are facing. In this case the estate of the bankrupt was dealt with by the Official Receiver in Hobart and he had available 50c in the dollar to pay creditors. 
Messrs S. R. and P. Clements were owed some $4,000 and, therefore, could have expected, in the normal course of events, to have received $2,000. Having not received this amount as they thought they ought to in good time, on 26 March 1979 they wrote through their solicitors to the Official Receiver asking why the 50c in the dollar, namely $2,000, had not been paid to them knowing that it was available in the estate accounts of the Official Receiver. On 10 May 1 979 the following reply was received: 
Dear Sirs, I refer to your letter dated 26 March 1979 and advise that I have sufficient funds in hand to pay a dividend of SOc in the dollar. However, because of the abnormal number of bankruptcies I have had staff handling new bankruptcies and have stopped paying dividends. Staff ceilings have restricted the number of staff available to handle the work. I am unable to advise when a dividend will be paid. 
No prospect was held out as to when a dividend could be paid. The Clements were prepared to bide some little time, but on 29 August, in desperation, they wrote again. On 4 September they received another letter from the Official Receiver which confirmed the difficulties that the office was operating under without the necessary staff to handle the payment of dividends. To add further to the troubles of the Official Receiver, he had lost the services of one of his qualified accountants. 
For whatever reason, he has left many thousands of creditors in a predicament. The Official Receiver continues: 
When taking into account the delay in obtaining a suitably qualified replacement and his training this office will be facing a most critical situation during the next 12 months. 
I regret that I have had to take the step of not paying dividends but similar action has already commenced on the Mainland states to handle the number of bankruptcies. 
Hence my question on Tuesday relating to the breakdown throughout Australia which is my inference only, I admit, from that paragraph from the Official Receiver's office in Tasmania. The fact is that that case is one instance of a situation which I have been able to confirm on the telephone, namely that no dividends have been paid to any creditors in Tasmania by the Official Receiver's office since the beginning of this calendar year. That means that many thousands of creditors have been denied their right to share in the distribution of what, by definition, are meagre assets and on which they depend as they themselves are hard-pressed. 
-That is right. It is terrible. 
I thought it had elements of scandal in it and therefore, some half hour ago, I went through the annual report of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs for 1977-78. On page 59 of that report the Department states: 
During the year ended 30 June 1978, 3,117 persons became bankrupt throughout Australia . . . The figure represents the highest number of bankruptcies recorded in a particular year since the commencement of Commonwealth bankruptcy administration, and is a sharp increase on the total for the preceding financial year. 
In Tasmania, for example, this year the figures are even worse. From an average of about 160 bankruptcies, the projected total number of bankruptcies for this year is 280. Hence one can see that even last year the Department knew the strain that the bankruptcy administration would be under. The Official Receiver's Office obviously was feeling the strain last year. That strain is minimal compared with the burden under which officers in the Official Receiver's Department are working this year. In the 1 1th annual report relating to the Bankruptcy Act for 1 977-78, there are hints of the difficulties. I refer to page 7 where, under the heading 'Administration ', the report states: 
The total number of estates under administration at the close of the year, namely 8,664, represents an increase of 759 estates during the year. Maximum operational efficiency demands that the number of estates under administration should be reduced substantially, but this is not possible under existing staffing conditions in Official Receivers' Offices. 
This gives an indication, a hint, that the bankruptcy administration was feeling the strain of staff ceilings. I found it difficult to understand the report when it speaks about the Official Receivers' estate account. On page 8 the report states: 
The rate of distribution to creditors of moneys held by Official Receivers on their behalf was satisfactory in the existing staffing circumstances. 
Once again, that tells one nothing unless one knows the real dilemma of creditors such as the Clements which I brought to the attention of the Senate tonight. In fact it is difficult to understand the situation because one reads in Schedule 12, Part B on page 30 of the report that whereas during the year almost $8m was received by the Official Receiver's Offices throughout Australia and almost $7,500,000 was disbursed during the year, the balance to credit of the estate account as at 30 June 1978 was still $7,420,396. This means that throughout Australia there was almost as much money sitting in the estate accounts at the end of the financial year 30 June 1978 as was distributed to creditors. Well over $7m, which ought to have been distributed to creditors, was sitting in the estate accounts of Official Receivers' Offices throughout Australia. I am not sure- I have not had time to find outbut perhaps it is earning interest for the Government while the creditors, who are hard pressed and in desperate need of the distribution of the meagre assets of those who have gone bankrupt, perhaps are themselves paying interest on overdrafts or other loans or such arrangements as they can make to tide themselves over until the Official Receivers' Offices get sufficient staff to enable dividends to be paid. The question is: Until when? The letter of early September from which I quoted indicates that the Official Receiver in Hobart, for example, sees the problem as continuing for at least another 12 months. He holds out no prospect, no indication, no hope at all to the Clements, amongst others, of when any payment will be made out of the bankrupt estates account. 
Because of the nature of Tasmanian society I am personally acquainted with most of those who work in the Official Receiver's Office in Hobart. I know them to be dedicated, hardworking, conscientious and concerned that the administration of their office results in creditors being paid that which is possible to be paid out of a bankrupt's estate. But obviously an intolerable situation has developed for creditors due to circumstances completely beyond the control of the Official Receiver's Office. I feel they are circumstances within the control of the Government. 
Surely when thousands upon thousands of ordinary small business traders throughout the community are seeking to recover from a situation which has befallen them because they have traded in goods and services with a person who has become bankrupt, this Government, or for that matter any government committed to small business enterprise- should be striving to ensure that a quick, fair and efficient distribution of assets takes place. Therefore, on behalf of the Clements, who are merely examples of thousands of Tasmanian creditors and perhaps tens of thousands of Australian creditors, I ask that the Government gives urgent priority to the staff ceiling at it operates in the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, with particular reference to the Official Receiver's Office, so that dividend clerks and other necessary personnel can be appointed in sufficient numbers to ensure that creditors throughout Australia get their due as quickly as possible. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer and follows the excellent question asked by  Senator MacGibbon  concerning the lack of an independent assessment by the Government of Australia 's oil supply situation. However, my question concerns the fiscal side of the situation. Is the Minister aware that inadequate procedures to check oil production in Bass Strait could be costing the Federal Government millions of dollars in lost taxation revenue? I also ask whether he has seen the report of the Auditor-General for the year ended 30 June 1979 in which the AuditorGeneral castigated the Departments of National Development and Business and Consumer Affairs for: 
. their failure to finalise satisfactory arrangements for the verification of production from the various fields in Bass Strait; and, consequently, of the amount payable as excise on naturally occurring petroleum liquids. 
Is the Minister taking steps to require that departments ensure that the revenue is not defrauded or, at least, is not underpaid by the oil companies concerned on the excise properly due to the Commonwealth, or is the Government content with the present totally inadequate general arrangements? 
Has the Minister for Social Security seen Press reports of the meeting of.the Anglican Synod of the Diocese of Tasmania held at the weekend which urged the Federal Government to increase the amount of money an unemployed person can earn without loss of unemployment benefits? At present benefits are affected if one earns more than a minuscule $6 a week. In view of the fact that the present policy is widely condemned as discouraging youngsters from taking occasional jobs and as encouraging dishonesty in divulging earnings if they do, will the Minister undertake an immediate examination of this socially destructive policy with a view to raising the permitted earnings to at least $20 a week? 
I take this opportunity to remark that if, as in clause 6 and as emphasised by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  an Australian passport remains the property of the Commonwealth, it would seem to me that the Commonwealth should take more pride in the control of its property than has been indicated by the Minister in his reply at the second reading stage. I have never heard and never hope to hear again remarks so subservient on behalf of the Australian Government to the requirement of other governments. Surely we are an independent nation in the community of nations. The Australian Government ought to be able to say to the world community: 'Michael Tate is an Australian. This person who wishes to travel is Michael Tate and is an Australian citizen'. For the Australian Government to require in its documents issued in order to identify me as an Australian citizen that the place of birth be included simply because other governments require it seems to me to be a derogation from our national sovereignty. 
No I am not. If other countries wish me to indicate - 
The honourable senator has intervened twice instead of allowing me to reply to his initial remark. If other countries wish me to indicate my place of birth in order to gain entry to that other country, I will do so if I wish to gain entry. Let that be done at the time of the visa application or, as has been mentioned, when filling in the card that is given on the aircraft or ship. I am quite happy to act in accordance with the laws of the country to which I am seeking entry. What I am saying is that Australian law should not anticipate or be subservient to the requirements of the laws of other countries. Let us assert our national independence and sovereignty and say to the world: This document identifies an Australian citizen and so long as he is an Australian citizen that ought to be indicated in the passport and be quite sufficient. I regard the Minister's remarks as not coming to terms with the sort of status which the Australian Government ought to enjoy in the community of nations. 
-The Senate is dealing with a Bill for an Act to amend the Passports Act 1938. Whilst the Opposition is in agreement with the main thrust of the Billnamely, removing the issuing of passports or, more importantly, their denial from the realm of administrative discretion and instead providing a legislative guide to authorised officers as to the grounds on which a passport can be denied- the second reading speech of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  provides an opportunity to point to some anomalies between the stated objectives of the Government in introducing this legislation and its actual provisions. 
The Senate is dealing with a very fundamental and important human right; namely, the right to move freely between countries round the world. I have discovered that it is a very ancient right, recognised in clause 42 of the Magna Carta of 1215, which states: 
It is allowed henceforth to any one to go out from our Kingdom, and to return, safely and securely, by land and by water . . . 
That is a very bold statement of an ancient right to move freely across the frontiers of the kingdom. 
Of course, passports are very ancient. People obviously needed some permission to leave the realm, otherwise there would not have been the need to put that in clause 42 of the great charter of 1215. Certain writs were available. Ne exeat regno, which was an ancient writ of the 13th century, was always available through the Lord Chancellor to restrain a person from moving outside the kingdom until he had discharged, for example, his military duties. I regret to say that in the Parliament's copy of the Magna Carta in King's Hallwhich is the enrolled Magna Carta which became law by being put on the statute roll in 1297- there is no mention of this clause. It is a cause for regret that somewhere between 1215 and the enrolling of the Magna Carta in 1297 that clause was deleted. Nevertheless, one does not have to go back to ancient history to establish that we are dealing with a human right. It is well known that in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948, adopted by the United Nations in December of that year, article 13 (2) states:   . . everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own and to return to his country. 
In fact, that simply establishes that there is an international recognition that in dealing with the granting and withdrawal of passports one is dealing with a very fundamental human right to move freely from one's own country and to return. Whilst a passport is in no sense an exit visa, and it is not necessary for an Australian to have a passport in order to leave Australia, it is effectively an entry visa from the point of view of the receiving country, which requires a passport as identification of the person concerned and of his or her nationality. Many carriers refuse to take a person unless a passport is available. In fact, generally speaking, if an Australian wishes to gain entry to another country it is essential that he or she holds a current passport. 
Therefore, the granting or withholding of a passport affects this fundamental human right. For that reason, at first glance the Opposition was pleased to see this legislation because on the face of it- particularly in clause 8, amending section 7- there are enumerated the grounds on which a passport may be denied. For example, it requires one to be denied to an unmarried minor except in special circumstances; it requires one to be denied to a person who owes the Commonwealth certain moneys; and in a new instance not previously covered in governmental practice it requires one to be denied where the Minister forms the opinion that the person applying for the passport would engage in some activity of violence or otherwise interfere with the well-being of the citizens of a country to which he might seek entry. 
Looking at the Bill initially, it seemed that this was a classic case of the Government's doing what it ought to do, namely, removing restrictions on a human right from the realm of administrative decision and Executive discretion and putting down a statement in the Parliament on the criteria so that the elected representatives could either adopt them or reject them. One finds on closer examination, though it is not very clear from the second reading speech of the Minister for Education, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  appears to retain an overriding discretion in the cancellation of passports and may reject an application for a passport. I say that this is not clear. It is certainly not clear from the Minister's second reading speech. He said in that speech, amongst other things: 
These restrictions- some of which I have enumeratedapply only to the issue of passports by authorised officers and do not . . . affect the Minister's general discretionary power to issue passports. 
It is clear from the wording of the Bill that the Minister may direct an authorised officer to issue a passport despite the fact that the authorised officer would not be inclined to issue it because the applicant came within one of the enumerated categories! The question is whether the Minister can refuse a passport even in the absence of a new section 8 ground. If it is the case that the Minister can refuse an Australian citizen a passport without relying on any of the grounds outlined in the new section 8, the fact is that we have in the issue of a passport, not the recognition of a human right as the Minister purported to say in his second reading speech, namely, the right to travel freely between one's country and any other country, but a mere privilege which can be granted or withdrawn at any time in the untrammelled discretion of the Minister. The fact is that in the new section 7, the Minister is added to the present list of those who can issue passports. 
Legislation up until now has placed the issuing of passports simply in the hands of an authorised officer, no doubt acting under governmental guidelines. The new amendments which we are considering today add the Minister as a person who can issue passports. That would seem to indicate that the Minister himself, whilst acknowledging that the authorised officer is always bound to act within the guidelines and new criteria set out in statutory form, retains an untrammelled discretion on whether to grant a passport. This seems to me to be directly contradictory to the spirit which should permeate and which I understood the Minister wanted to permeate this legislation. If I misunderstand the position I would be willing to receive advice to that effect. In fact, I would be delighted to receive advice to that effect. 
Another slight anomaly arises which I feel goes against the recognition of the right to travel as a basic human right guaranteed by the possession of a passport. A new section introduced states that a passport always remains the property of the Commonwealth. I would like some elucidation in the Minister's remarks as to why this needs to be the case. It seems to me that a passport is evidence of personal identity and nationality. If I am an Australian citizen, surely, on the payment of a reasonable fee for the preparation of the documentation, I ought to be in possession of my own passport as proof of who 1 am and of my nationality. This is so linked to my basic human right to move around freely that, as an extension of that right, the passport evidencing my nationality ought to be my own property and not the property of the Commonwealth. 
I was saying that, nevertheless, the Opposition agrees with much in this Bill, particularly in the setting down of four or five categories which an authorised officer needs to advert to and needs to rely on if he- I exclude the Minister- is to refuse to issue a passport. In particular, I personally am pleased to see that the Government has taken a very courageous stand. I say 'courageous' because I know that this would have caused much representation from police forces in particular and also from corporate affairs commissions. The Government appears to have dropped the practice hitherto obtaining whereby passports were denied to persons who were under investigation in respect of crime, particularly corporate crime, so that they could not leave the country with any expectation of being received in another country. 
It may be that this needs some explanation because I imagine that most Australians, off the cuff, would think that a person under suspicion ought not to be able to flee before investigations enable the police to move to a situation where warrants could be issued for his arrest or in some way to bring him before the courts. I return to the fundamental premise on which we have to approach this Bill, that is, that one is dealing with a fundamental human right to travel freely. The Government has taken, as I say, a courageous view that in recognising this human right, the passport system ought not to be used as an extension of the police or judicial system. No more restraint ought to be placed on an Australian citizen by the Executive in exercising its power to issue, cancel or reject an application for a passport than would be placed on that citizen by the courts of this country. 
In that case we are in a great tradition of liberty. I am pleased to see that the conservative Liberal Government of Australia in 1979 is catching up with the Ernest Bevin of some 30 years ago. I do not really make that remark in any derogatory fashion. I am very pleased to see the Government taking this stand. I will quote what Lord Denning, that very esteemed Lord Justice - 
He is not reactionary in this, I can assure the honourable senator. I refer to a case, Ghani v. Jones, reported in 1971,  Queen's Bench,  at page 709. Lord Denning was faced with a request by police to retain passports in order to restrain somebody from going abroad. The case had not yet come before a court. The police argued that they might need the passports in order to sustain a particular charge of murder. Lord Denning said: 
I cannot help reeling that the real reason why the passports have not been returned is because the officers wish to prevent the plaintiffs from leaving this country pending police inquiries. That is not a legitimate ground for holding them. Either they have grounds for arresting them, or they have not. If they have not, the plaintiffs should be allowed to leave- even if it means they are fleeing from the reach of justice. A man's liberty of movement is regarded so highly by the law of England that it is not to be hindered or prevented except on the surest grounds. It must not be taken away on a suspicion which is not grave enough to warrant his arrest. 
That is a principle which I believe is fundamentally just and which, it is pleasing to see, is incorporated in this Bill, at least as far as authorised officers are concerned. If I am correct in saying that the Minister has an overall and untrammelled discretion, in certain cases and in the face of that tradition, he may still prevent the person from leaving by denying him his passport. 
I do not intend to go over the ground covered so ably by  Senator Button  to indicate some of the Opposition's worries because they will find expression at the Committee stage. I direct my final remarks to our amendment to the motion for the second reading. It is to the effect that an Australian citizen ought to have the option of whether his place of birth appears on the passport. The wording of it is: 
At end of motion, add ', but the Senate is of the opinion that the place of birth should only be disclosed on a passport if the holder or applicant so elects '. 
Those final two words, 'so elects', I think answer much of the point that has been made by  Senator Knight.  It is true that many countries will deny entry to an Australian passport holder if that passport does not disclose the place of birth. Those countries were enumerated by  Senator Knight.  Whilst some other countries are prepared to accept an Australian passport which does not disclose the place of birth, they require that the information be supplied when issuing a visa. Surely an applicant can be allowed to make the decision whether he or she wants to take the risk. This is a matter of grave concern particularly to many naturalised Australians. It has taken some three years for the Government to ponder the report on dual nationality from the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. That report was tabled on 14 October 1976 three years ago almost to the day. In that report, which emanated from a committee of both Houses and from all sides of politics, the following is stated: 
There is a strong argument that in any official document the Australian Government should not appear to make distinctions between naturalised and natural-born citizens. In view of this the practice of showing the place of birth of the holder on an Australian passport might be discontinued and in its stead 'place of residence ' inserted. The adoption of this suggestion might tend to avoid some difficulties encountered by dual nationals when visiting the country of their other nationality. 
The Committee commended that particular point to the study of the Government. The 
Government has had that report as a whole before it for some three years. It has had an interdepartmental committee working on the report. As was pointed out in a debate in this place some four or five months ago, the interdepartmental committee took a very languid and unsympathetic approach over a whole range of issues to the plight of dual nationals in this country. 
The interdepartmental committee and the Government in reliance on it. My evidence of the Government's reliance on it includes this piece of legislation in front of us. Despite a strong plea from a committee comprising members and senators from both Houses and from all sides of politics, the Government has decided not to allow an Australian citizen the simple option of whether the place of birth should appear in his or her passport. 
This is something that the person would have to be acquainted with. The sort of list which  Senator Knight  has would be available at any office which issues passports and at consular offices abroad, and the person would have to keep that list in mind when making his or her choice. What we are saying is that an Australian citizen who feels that danger, jeopardy and risk are involved in putting down his place of birth ought to have his very real, genuine and justified fears put at rest by a simple governmental decision allowing this option to be afforded on an application for a passport. That is the effect of the second reading amendment that the Opposition will be pressing. We press it on behalf of many tens of thousands of naturalised Australians who, as honourable senators know, face grave difficulties in returning to their former homelands; and amongst those difficulties is the information that may appear on a passport. 
On the whole the Opposition welcomes this piece of legislation as an attempt to put down firm legislative criteria for the guidance of authorised officers in issuing or declining to issue Australian passports. However, we feel that certain matters need to be dealt with at the Committee stage, particularly regarding the time lapse between the application for a passport and its issue or the rejection of the application. We say that that process should take no longer than 30 days in a normal instance. We say that wherever a discretion is exercised by governmental officials, that discretion ought to be appealable to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. Of course, we welcome the possibility of the Ombudsman's exercising some role in this matter, particularly as to delay. If an administrative discretion is exercisable, it would seem only appropriate that the Administrative Appeals Tribunal ought to be available to ensure that the discretion is exercised in accordance with criteria laid down by the elected representatives, if this Bill is passed into law. 
Such a fundamental human right is involved in this legislation that one can only hope that when the Minister replies he will give some indication of the extent to which the Minister retains an untrammelled discretion to refuse to issue a passport. This is fundamental. For example, questions have been raised as to whether the consent of a spouse will be required to enable an applicant to obtain a passport to go abroad. There is some administrative practice to that effect. It is not mentioned in the Bill as something to which an authorised officer can direct his mind. But can the Minister, in his untrammelled discretion, make that one of the considerations that he takes into account? We need to know the position of the Minister in relation to this fundamental human right. We need to be assured that to the greatest extent possible the freedom to move abroad, which has been recognised internationally in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in our own tradition since the promulgation of Magna Carta in 1215, is fully recognised in our community. 
-Another aspect of the amendment perhaps has been glossed over by the Minister. The amendment requires that when an application for a passport is denied the section upon which the authorised officer is relying ought to be notified to the applicant. Even agreeing with the Minister that there is an appeals mechanism in a sense to the Ombudsman, my query is: How is the Ombudsman to be acquainted with the ground of the decision taken by the authorised officer? Under the Bill as it is presently drafted there is no need for the authorised officer to indicate the ground upon which he took his decision. I ask: How does the Ombudsman find out whether in fact one of the grounds in the Bill were relied on, whether some irrelevant ground was taken into account or whether there was just sheer maladministration? 
-I may have missed the comment by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  Is that an indication of an administrative practice that is to be adopted or will this be written into the Act? We want a legislative guarantee that a person will be notified of the grounds upon which an authorised officer has acted. I ani putting to one side the question of ministerial discretion which may go outside the legislative criteria. 
-On the question of penalties, I think it ought to be clearly understood that the Opposition regards the offences as serious, particularly forgery, which is a very grave offence. Therefore the Opposition agrees with the penalty for forgery prescribed in the Bill. What the Opposition is saying is that discretion ought to be placed in the court. An alternative should be open to the court so that a fine may be substituted for a term of imprisonment in an appropriate case. As an illustration of what might be an appropriate case, I refer to  Senator Carrick  's last remark when he said that an honest citizen may have nothing to fear. An honest citizen has nothing to fear if he does what  Senator Carrick  indicated he ought to do, namely, notify the loss or theft of a passport as soon as practicable. He has nothing to fear in those circumstances because he has committed no offence. But where an Australian passport is lost or stolen and for any number of reasons the passport holder fails to report this loss or theft within the shortest practicable time, he is guilty of an offence. All we are saying is that that range of reasons may include reasons which are such that, although an offence has been committed, it ought not to result in imprisonment of the passport holder. 
An honest citizen ought to have nothing to fear in that situation because he would never be prosecuted. This is where we think that our proposal has advantages over the present structure of the Bill. There may be cases where it would be unjust to prosecute the passport holder despite the fact that technically an offence has occurred following the loss or theft of a passport, knowing that the court has no alternative but to subject that person to a term of imprisonment, albeit imprisonment for up to one year. We say that the court ought to have placed in its hands the opportunity to exact a monetary penalty rather than have no other alternative but to imprison the person, even if it be for a period of only a week. In other words, we say that the discretion should be placed in the court rather than in the hands of the prosecuting authority, where invariably it will now reside, because prosecutions will not take place in circumstances where the failure to notify the loss or theft is for a trivial reason which nevertheless does breach the law. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 1 3a. 
Whilst the Opposition supports the Crimes (Aircraft) 
Amendment Bill, I think it ought to be recognised just how inadequate the Government's response overall has been to the safety of air navigation aids and aerodromes in Australia. In fact, this legislation is simply a partial response to the pressure which has been put on the Government both by the International Federation of Airline Pilots Association which met in March of this year and demanded that the governments of the world institute such checks as are provided for in this Bill. Of course, the Australian Federation of Airpilots has taken the same stand, particularly after the incident at Coolangatta in early June where a domestic flight was hijacked by an individual who managed to get on board with a sawn-off shotgun without being detected. This was because of certain defects which I will shortly bring to the attention of the chamber. 
It is true that Australia has been relatively free of this type of incident perhaps mainly because we have some geographical advantage in being removed from some of the political hotspots of the world. Indeed, we have also been free of these sorts of incidents because the Government has recognised the weight and force of the lobby represented by the International Federation of Airline Pilots Association. Therefore on international flights safety measures have been extremely stringent. There are two matters to be noted in this respect. Firstly, the character of persons undertaking attacks on people in airport transit lounges and in aircraft is changing. Whereas in the 1960s the typical case of hijacking was for political purposes with the person perhaps trying to fly to Havana or some other haven which was ideologically suitable, nowadays the persons who are hijacking aircraft are doing it because of personal idiosyncrasies. For example, honourable senators will remember the incident in Sydney when an attacker took a knife to a girl, bundled her onto a jumbo jet and had in his possession two gelignite bombs. He merely wanted to travel to Moscow, via Rome to see the Pope. It was a personal idiosyncrasy. 
It is this type of person against whom one needs 100 per cent security checks. This Bill does nothing to institute in Australian domestic airports what I believe to be absolutely essential, namely, security checks on 100 per cent of the flights concerned. It does not occur at the moment because the Government places the burden of instituting security checks on the domestic airlines. It is the airlines which pay for the security organisations to carry out the checks which I believe are random but which, overall, are designed to deal with about one in every three passengers on domestic flights in Australia. The fact that that person could get onto the aircraft at Coolangatta with a sawn-off shotgun, hijack an aircraft and be overcome only through the bravery of the air-hostesses concerned shows that our domestic air flights are vulnerable to attack by the irrational or the self-seeking, perhaps even for monetary reward. 
Honourable senators will recall the famous incident of  Mr Brown  who tried to obtain some half million dollars by a false bomb hoax. He stated that a bomb had been placed on an aircraft of Qantas Airways Ltd. All these instances spring to mind but are not really met by this Bill. 
-That is correct. The Bill is cosmetic. It does not deal with the real problem because it does neither of two things: It does not require 100 per cent screening of Australian domestic flights and it does nothing by way of aiding the staffing situation at our domestic airports. Thus one has a very clear indication of the Government's shallow concern for this matter. After the jumbo jet incident in Sydney,  Senator Mason  of the Australian Democrats asked a question in this place on 5 April. He pointed out that the establishment at Sydney airport was for 84 Commonwealth police officers. In fact, there were only 60. 
What I am going to say is favourable. He had divulged the information that an establishment of 29 plain clothes officers was provided for Sydney airport whilst, in fact, there were only 1 8 officers. There was an establishment of 55 uniformed officers, but there were only 42 at the airport. He asked the Government to ensure urgently that the staffing was brought up to establishment. I understand from  Senator Mason  that he has received no reply to that question asked on 5 April 1979. In fact, the problem to which he was pointing occurs at most other airports. I have not shown this table to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  who is at the table but I seek leave to incorporate it in  Hansard.  It is a table on the established and actual strengths of Department of Transport Officers associated with airport security at Australian airports as at 30 April 1979. It has been prepared from an answer to question No. 3893 at page 2879 of the House of Representatives daily  Hansard of 4 June  1979. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="082232197910111_64_0.jpg"></graphic>

The relevant part of the table shows, amongst other things, that at Melbourne Airport at 30 April 1 973 there was an established strength of 73 whereas the actual strength was 60. Together with the figures for the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport that indicates the failure of the Government to come to grips with this problem of security of airports and air navigation aids. 
Whilst this piece of legislation is welcomed by the Opposition, we see it as being possibly ineffective in that there will not be sufficient personnel to carry out the searches which are authorised by the Bill and to take the action that may be necessary if they become suspicious about any person or piece of baggage. My view- not that of the Opposition- is that Australian airline passengers would be willing to accept 100 per cent security checks to ensure that irrational people and those motivated by greed or some obscure purpose known only to themselves do not threaten the lives of those who seek to travel by air. 
I wish to ask a supplementary question. In his answer the Minister concentrated on transitional training schemes where it is understood an equivalent to the unemployment benefit would be paid, although not so-called. I repeat my question: For those young people who fall outside such transitional training schemes, can the Minister give a categorical denial that they will be forced back on their families for support once they leave school? 
-My remarks will be brief in consequence of the excellent contributions made so far by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber in this discussion of the Quarantine Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979. No doubt, when discussion takes place at a later date on the report of the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources there will be an opportunity to engage in a much fuller and detailed discussion of the best way of providing for a quarantine service to protect Australia's pastoral industries. I will confine my remarks at this stage to the Bill as presented to this chamber. In the repeal of section 18A of the Quarantine Act, I think that we have an immediate indication of how, as  Senator Teague  pointed out, the emphasis at present has changed from quarantine directed towards preventing human exotic diseases from entering Australia to quarantine directed towards preventing the introduction of diseases which may affect plants or animals. That emphasis has been brought about largely by the fact that humans travel round the world so quickly that the disease which they may be carrying or subject to when they enter this country will not manifest itself until they have reached a point in the community quite remote from the port of entry and remote in time from the time of entry. 
The Bill recognises, very properly, that the introduction of a human disease is almost unable to be prevented at the port of entry in that the symptoms will not manifest themselves there. Therefore, one needs to recognise that the treatment of an exotic human disease is a matter for general community medicine. It is only logical that the provision hitherto obtaining, although not often put into practice, that one was to notify a quarantine officer if one manifested some exotic disease after entry into Australia is to be deleted from the Act. There will be simply a reliance on the normal general medical facilities of the community. In fact, as honourable senators know, when one re-enters Australia or when one comes into Australia for the first time one receives from the Commonwealth Department of Health a little yellow pamphlet- a health warning- which one is advised to hold for six weeks and to hand to one's doctor if one becomes ill in that period. That enables the doctor to be alert to the possibility that one might have contracted the disease while abroad. The doctor is instructed to report immediately any suspected quarantinable disease, such as smallpox or yellow fever. 
The Bill, very properly, recognises immediately that human quarantinable diseases need to be dealt with not at the port of entry, where the most one can do is deal with some clearing documentation, but when the disease manifests itself at a point in time remote from the port of entry. This may lead to quite different physical arrangements existing at the port of entry. There is no need to have any high level medical personnel at the actual port of entry, given the decline in the importance of some hitherto common diseases, such as smallpox, and, as I have said, the fact that the diseases will manifest themselves in human beings until much later when they are within the community. The emphasis in the Bill is on animal and, to a lesser extent, plant diseases. lt is gratifying to see a very major provision relating to compensation for the destruction of goods, plant or animal. Hitherto it has been the law that one only receives compensation in the case of the destruction of an animal when the animal was diagnosed as diseased but which after destruction was found not to be diseased. Of course, that is a totally inadequate approach to the problem, as  Senator Thomas  and  Senator Teague  have both pointed out, of engendering confidence in the pastoral industry about when it should approach the authorities. 
He ought to. That is what this Bill does. 
Section 57 contains the limited provision for compensation which I have outlined, namely, that one only receives compensation, as I understand it, if an animal was destroyed because it was thought to be diseased but turned out not be be diseased. The new provision is that when an animal is destroyed, for example, by reason of the animal being infected or suspected of being infected with a disease, the owner is entitled to the market value of that animal, the market value being determined as at the time when the destruction took place. 
I have not picked up that distinction. The section says that the compensation payable shall be an 'amount equal to', and then it goes on in general terms in the way that I have outlined. 
-That is right. Where there is some dispute between the owner and the Minister as to the proper compensation payments, an arbitrator may be brought in to settle the matter between the parties. I have cause to remark that this amendment has been so long coming. I believe in part- here I agree with  Senator Teague,  or perhaps  Senator Thomas;  certainly I heard  Senator Teague  make the point- that the pastoral industry has not been sufficiently involved in the various contingency plans drawn up to deal with an outbreak of exotic disease within Australia. Unless the industry is satisfied with the practicability with the and the justice of any contingency planning to deal with an outbreak of a virulent exotic disease, it is quite clear that cooperation will not be forthcoming. People will not take the initiative in reporting a suspected instance of a disease to the relevant quarantine authorities. Had the various industries been involved- I am speaking generally- in the same way as I believe the poultry industry has been, then I believe that we would have had very good models which would have been such as to engender confidence in the producers in the various industries. 
The contingency plans for Newcastle disease and fowl plague are well known and well understood by those involved in the poultry industry. Had the same sort of co-operation, planning and consultation taken place, say, with the beef-cattle industry then I believe that provisions enabling compensation to be made on a just basis would have been brought to the Parliament much earlier. It is the knowledge that one will receive just compensation which produces and engenders the co-operation needed from the producers concerned. Even given a provision which is simple and necessary, the question of its adequacy does arise. Here I merely reiterate what  Senator Thomas  had to say. The compensation that might be needed to be just would need to cover the widespread social and economic damage that an exotic disease outbreak might cause. The experience in Britain that  Senator Thomas  alluded to shows the need to provide for widespread social and community co-operation. Compensation needs to be provided for a much wider range of matters than merely the monetary value of the stock at the time of destruction. It is well known that where there are standstill orders, for example, there will be a loss of business, perhaps a complete cessation of business, of abattoirs, rural veterinary practitioners, auctioneers, stock transporters and even local shops and tradesmen, although, of course, they would be at a point too remote perhaps for compensation provisions to operate. A much wider range of compensation for damages might need to be contemplated in order to keep the whole economy of local communities at a viable level. 
The Act, quite properly, I think- perhaps in the only way possible- provides for the value of stock to be the stock at the time immediately prior to the outbreak of the disease. However, it is clear that this may not be adequate for restocking, and may almost certainly not provide the necessary funds for producers to bring their herds up to the same number as they had before the destruction. Quite clearly, as fewer stock will be available on the market the price will be forced above the pre-outbreak level. The question which needs to be asked is whether the Government might give some consideration to providing supplementary compensation to bridge that gap. Of course, I am not suggesting any attempt after an outbreak to control the market and to keep prices down. The Government needs to recognise that prices for restocking almost certainly will be far higher than will be realised by any compensation arrangements based on the Bill as presently drafted. There is also the question, for example, of ordinary farm workers who might find themselves drafted to handle a disinfection program or to deal with the disposal of carcasses and so on. What sort of compensation will they receive for losing time normally spent earning wages in the normal way on the properties of the district? Would their wages be guaranteed at pre-outbreak levels while dealing with this necessary community work? Would they receive any compensation for loss of income? The question might arise as to whether any consultation has taken place with the trade unions that might be involved in this wider aspect of compensation. 
I do not intend to develop this theme at any greater length. I simply say that insofar as the Act contains this provision, it is certainly not before time. It may not yet be adequate to ensure that those most intimately involved with the social and economic consequences of the destruction of livestock, in particular, are adequately protected. I believe that a wider ranging set of compensation provisions may well emerge if the sort of co-operation and consultation with industry in the drawing up of contingency plans, which  Senator Teague  spoke of, takes place in the open, as is occurring even now. I instance the case of the poultry industry as a good example and a model of how that can take place. 
The third major element of the Bill deals with appropriate powers to be granted to quarantine officers. The Committee of which I am a member found much concern. It took quite a deal of evidence on the lack of adequate powers by quarantine officers, a lack which was evidenced by the fact that for many years there were legal opinions- for example, I think one was given by a  Deputy  Crown Solicitor of one of the States, perhaps New South Wales- to the effect that after the granting of pratique- that is the granting by quarantine officers of permission to a vessel to unload passengers or goods because it is thought to be free of infection- quarantine officers lost any power to deal with goods discharged from a ship or aircraft. Clause 7, which I take it is directed to that particular problem, states: 
A quarantine officer may search any baggage that has been taken off or out of an oversea vessel . . . 
Of course, that taking out of the oversea vessel will have occurred after pratique has been granted. That is only a suspicion on my part. If that clause is not directed to dealing with that particular problem, and the quarantine may have lost power once pratique is granted, then I think the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  may care to tell the Senate whether it is intended to deal with it by either an amendment to this Bill or at some stage in the very near future. It is a gap that was brought up in evidence quite often before the Senate Committee on Natural Resources, as indeed was the whole question of the powers of quarantine officers. All the speakers preceding me have indicated how, in a sense, the quarantine service, though staffed by people of diligence and conscience and with great practical experience, has nevertheless been treated in many of the practical operative aspects of their work in a rather Cinderella-like fashion. It has been dependent more often than not on the co-operation of other Commonwealth agencies like the Bureau of Customs in order to secure a proper inspection and search of persons and goods as they come into Australia. 
This Bill is very welcome, and it goes quite a long way towards granting powers to quarantine officers to enable them to enter premises either with the consent of the owner or with a warrant granted by a justice of the peace in order to carry out his functions of inspection where he reasonably suspects that some infected article is present in those premises. The need for such powers to be given to quarantine officers came up time and time again in the evidence received by the Senate Committee on National Resources. I will not elaborate on that, but will leave it to the actual tabling of the report. It is not too early to have brought before the Parliament these sorts of clauses which help to establish the status and powers of quarantine officers, as they ought to be persons who can operate independently of other agencies, whether of State or Federal character. I believe that this sort of section, together with the enhanced penalties both within this Bill and within the Bill with which the Senate dealt earlier in the year, will give to the quarantine service some of the aspects of independence and status which are needed to bring home not only to the Australian public but to the magistrates of this country the very great importance of the quarantine service. 
As  Senator Teague  pointed out, it is a fact that because it has not been very much in the public eye, Australia has managed perhaps luckily to get away with an investment of $4m or $5m for the protection of industry and trade worth many billions of dollars. We need to realise, as a community, that we have been lucky and that the havoc that follows from breach of quarantine is such that both the general public and the courts need to take a more sympathetic view of the necessary inconvenience that may be caused by the exercise of power to search, inspect and question which this Bill gives to Australia's quarantine officers. I will leave any further remarks to the tabling of the report of the Senate Committee on the wider aspects of the place of quarantine in the Australian community. I believe this Bill is worthwhile so far as it goes, and it is timely. On that basis it receives the full support of the Opposition. 
I express my dissatisfaction very briefly at the answer given by the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  to  Senator Cavanagh  concerning clause 6 which seeks to insert a new section 69 ( 1 ) in the Act. The language reinforces the fact that the Minister for Health is given a discretion to award or approve the payment of compensation. Not only is the word 'may' used but, as  Senator Cavanagh  pointed out, it is reinforced by the clause if the Minister considers it appropriate to do so. The fact is that I was perhaps in error in my remarks at the second reading stage in saying that I thought we had in this Bill a provision which would engender the support of people engaged in the livestock industry in notifying the appropriate authorities of their suspicion that an exotic disease was in their herd. I had thought that the Bill would give a right to compensation where diseased stock are destroyed in accordance with the provisions of the Act. One finds on the contrary that the Minister retains an untrammelled discretion not to approve the payment of compensation. The Minister for Science and the Environment said in some of his replies to  Senator Cavanagh  that this might cover a case where the owner had already recovered moneys through some other form of indemnity. Surely we can provide in the Act that the owner must exhaust all other remedies, including the recovery of insurance moneys. 
The Minister also said that there may be cases where the Minister for Health thinks that the person concerned may have himself introduced the disease into his herd by presumably illegally importing some materials, plant or animal which itself was diseased, but in a way which has not been susceptible to proof before the court, and is just known to the quarantine service. This was the answer given byne service. This was the Minister. 1 find it totally unsatisfactory that the right to compensation is not such that it is a mere privilege which one can apply for. But if the Minister without having to justify his suspicion before any independent tribunal formed the view on advice received that for some reason compensation ought not be paid, he merely says it will not be paid. The arbitration provisions only go to the quantum of compensation if he decides that some sort of compensation ought to be paid. It seems to me that in this respect- I know  Senator Thomas  would possibly share my concern- the Bill does not create that atmosphere of absolute assurance that compensation is payable where diseased stock are destroyed. This is necessary if the producers are to give their full support to the formation and consultative process going into the contingency plans and their actual operation. 
-When one walks into this national Parliament and finds on the order of business sheet a Bill relating to conciliation and arbitration, one at least expects to find a Bill which is constructive, which creates or modifies arbitration machinery and which will enable this nation to deal with the inevitable clashes between the organisations representing labour and those representing employers. Certainly, one expects to find a Bill which is in harmony with basic constitutional principles which respect the impartiality and integrity of the conciliation and arbitration process and which make it quite independent of the government. Instead honourable senators are confronted tonight with a Bill which is destructive of conciliation and arbitration machinery. That is the reason why  Sir John  Moore is here tonight. 
The Bill is not only destructive of conciliation and arbitration machinery established over many years allowing to commissioners a certain independence and impartiality and giving them an effective ability to deal with a dispute; it is also destructive in a much deeper sense of the constitutionally enshrined arrangements for dealing with industrial disputes in this country. These were arrangements decided on by the founding fathers and which have given to our type of society and economy the resolution of disputes by a body outside the control and influence directly of government. Government, as we know, has to present a case to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the same way as any other party. So one is confronted with a Bill which is surprising in its destructive effects. 
However, it is not surprising when one considers the genesis of the Bill. The creation of this Bill gives no grounds for confidence that it will provide a constructive answer to Australia's industrial problems. None of the procedures leading up to the presentation of this Bill to the Parliament involved very necessary consultation with the trade union movement. The Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations and all the registered unions have been ignored in the process leading up to the presentation of this legislation to the Parliament. The National Labour Consultative Council was not available to the Government as an appropriate forum to carry out consultation with the trade union movement because it had quite properly decided at the time when the Government tried to put some initial proposals before it to boycott that body, given the fact that the Government- this is how hypocritical it is- had introduced, without any consultation with that body, the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Bill. It is indicative of the hypocritical attitude and confrontation attitude of this Government to industrial relations that it should bring before this Parliament legislation which bears none of the modifications, good sense and practical experience that would have been gained by a proper consultation with the union movement. 
I do not dwell on that because I would not expect any of those remarks to cut any ice with Government supporters. After all, this legislation is simply part of a program to denigrate the union movement. What may perhaps cut through some of the ice, some of the frozen attitudes of honourable senators supporting the Government in this matter, is the sort of headline which one finds in the  Australian Financial Review  of Tuesday, 16 October, which reads: Fraser v. the Arbitration Bench'. I believe that editorialists, as they quite often have to, sum up in a few words the essence of the situation. What I want to put to honourable senators tonight is that in this very perceptive headline of the editorial which stated 'Fraser v. the Arbitration Bench ', one has a summary of the effect of this Bill. It is destructive of the internal machinery of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and an attack on the integrity of the Commission as established by the Constitution. 
To support that headline one has only to detail the sort of opposition that has been brought to the public's notice over the last few days. The Government is insisting on the passage of this Bill. That is why we are dealing with it tonight. It is doing so, firstly, in the face of opposition by  Sir Richard  Kirby, a man who for 17 years was at the pinnacle of the conciliation and arbitration process in Australia, a most respected elder statesman of the conciliation and arbitration process, and a protector of its integrity. In the face of claims by  Sir Richard  that parts of this Bill are unconstitutional, particularly in their directions as to the parameters or bounds within which disputes are to be arbitrated, the Government insists this matter be dealt with tonight. In the face of claims by 25 commissioners- the unanimous voice of the arbitration commissioners of this country- that this Bill will intolerably interfere with their conduct of matters, the Government insists that the Bill be dealt with by the Senate tonight. 
Who are these 25 commissioners? They are drawn from many diverse backgrounds in the community. Mainly they are senior representatives from the union movement, from government or from employer organisations. There are many differences in their backgrounds and their experience of industrial relations. They have been appointed by government because of that experience and they draw on that vast knowledge. 
They are appointed by different governments. Drawing on that vast experience that they have of the necessary machinery to settle industrial disputes, they are saying to the Government unanimously and quite extraordinarily that this legislation will intolerably interfere with their dealing with the parties to a dispute by requiring them, as a matter of law, to consult with a presidential member of the Commission. It sounds alright on the surface and perhaps it ought to be part of the informal machinery workings of the Commission. The editorial of the  Australian,  not a newspaper overly sympathetic to the union movement or to the Australian Labor Party for that matter, stated on Tuesday, 16 October: 
The Government has produced legislation which is  unwieldly  and altogether too rigid. This is the result of trying to legislate to make compulsory certain activities which, in the past, have been carried out informally. 

 Sir Richard Kirby and the arbitration commissioners have asked the Government to reconsider. It presses on. 
Secondly, we have the well publicised objections of  Mr Justice  Staples which I may detail a little later. All I say now is that in the editorial of the  Australian Financial Review  Mr Justice  Staples 's remarks are said to be devastating criticisms and contain some excellent points. One has there a recognition of the force and the truth of the criticisms which  Mr Justice  Staples had made of the Bill. I will speak in detail about one of these criticisms a little later on. 
Finally, we have the Government pressing on with this legislation in the face of the request by  Sir John  Moore for full consultation on these particular clauses concerning consultation which are perceived by the commissioners as threatening their integrity, their independence and their effectiveness in settling disputes.  Sir John  Moore is a man who towers above all others in the field of industrial relations in Australia. He has called on the Government for consultation. The Government apparently has agreed with  Sir John's  request. We were told this by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  before this debate recommenced tonight. But what does this mean for those of us participating in the debate? None of us is able to take into account what we may learn tomorrow about the views of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission forwarded by  Sir John  Moore to the Government. None of those on the Government side who will be put on the firing line to defend the indefensible will be able to retract from their statements strongly defending the legislation as drafted. The Government, by continuing with this legislation, is showing that, apart from engaging in a public relations exercise, a necessary extension of courtesy, and listening to  Sir John  Moore and the members of the Commission, it will do as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said it will do, that is, it will press ahead regardless. It will press ahead for one very simple reason. I think Government senators ought to realise this when considering whether to support this particular legislation. There can be no doubt that the Prime Minister himself has produced this legislation. It is not a product of the Department of Industrial Relations. The Department has expressed its qualms and its reservations about this legislation. It is a product of the industrial relations unit in the Prime Minister's department. 
This is simply a political exercise designed to antagonise and taunt the union movement into providing an electoral situation. Every Government senator who votes for this proposal ought to know and admit to himself that this Bill is simply tinder for electoral fire. But as with most fires, this already is proving to be not a controlled burn-off Sparks are flying everywhere. The eventual victim, the body to be burnt to ashes, will not be the union movement. It will be the conciliation and arbitration system, lt is its independence and its integrity which is threatened by this Bill. I will substantiate that statement in a moment. 
We know that  Mr Fraser  has claimed that he has the blueprint for producing an Australian society in which industrial peace prevails. He has had four years to put that plan into effect. He made his promise in 1 974 when he was shadow Minister for industrial relations. He has had four years to bring about this climate of peace and harmony, but that was never an aim consistent with his methods which, I believe, have always been to create situations of confrontation for political and electoral advantage. This Bill is no exception to that methodology of the Prime Minister. 
I will deal with the main provisions of the Bill since in this second reading debate that would seem to be appropriate. It is necessary in any case to meet some of the outrageous claims made by  Senator Lewis.  In clause 16, the deregistration proposal, as an alternative to the deregistration procedures available within the judicial processes whereby the industrial court, an impartial body, a judicial body, may make a decision to deregister a union, we now have a proposal that deregistration will be dependent upon the will of the Cabinet. It will be a purely political decision. The criteria used by the Cabinet will be political, necessarily, and may have nothing to do with the original dispute or any attempt to settle it. The situation under the Bill is that the Government will go to the Commission and seek a declaration that the industrial dispute is harming the welfare of part of the community. In a sense I have no objection to that. But once that declaration is granted, for the following six months and for any reason within that six months the Government may deregister the union. In that six months' period the Government does not have to go before any independent tribunal and justify the deregistration. It may do so for reasons which are purely political, which may be full of vengeance or ill-will, and which may not be designed to settle an industrial situation. That is what is critically deficient in that particular proposal for deregistration. It does smack of the totalitarian system around the world, whether of the Left or the Right, where the existence of organised labour is dependent upon the will of the executive Government of the day. We should be doing everything in our power to ensure that if a union is to be deregistered, if the funds of a union are to come under the control of the Government, that should be done only upon direct instruction and following argument before an independent judicial tribunal. 1 believe that this particular piece of legislation brings about the very situation that the founding fathers feared most of all- that the settlement of industrial disputes between organised capital and labour would become a matter for the Government of the day rather than an independent conciliation and arbitration process. 
Exactly. As I say, the totalitarian regimes of the Left or the Right would find that provision entirely acceptable. I request Government senators to give this point their earnest consideration. I cannot believe that honourable senators opposite would acquiesce in that proposal if they understood its significance. 
I want to turn to the -comments of  Mr Justice   Staples. Perhaps 1 might take up his most devastating criticism. That is how it is referred to by the editor of the  Australian Financial Review.  One of the proposals in the Bill is that the  President  may, if he is of the opinion that there are special reasons, remove a matter from the hands of a member of the Commission. The vice here is that there is no definition of special reasons.  Mr Justice  Staples commented in his letter: 
Nothing is more calculated to strike at the independence and authority of any member of the Commission than that he be under threat of becoming disentitled to act if he does not please. 
By what corridor of power may complainants hope to reach the ear of the  President  and induce him to defrock a colleague? 
What pressures may we expect to be brought against a recalcitrant  president  if he fails to respond to insinuations, subtle or overt, against one judge in favour of another? How will the  President  satisfy himself that there are special reasons? 
With whom is he to consult? With the parties severally, or together, or shall strangers be consulted? Or shall the  President  be left to act with all the appearance of caprice. 
That includes the quotation. The editorialist continues: 
But the wording which allows the  President  to act out of non-defined 'special reasons' is exceedingly loose. Justice Staples 's inference of back corridor pressure is a reasonable fear. 
That is the conclusion of not only the editor of the  Financial Review  but also of any fair-minded person as he looks at that very loosely defined power put in the hands of the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission by this Bill. That is why the Opposition is insisting on maintaining its opposition. 
As to consultation, the provision, on the face of it, again sounds not unreasonable. The Bill says that a commissioner, in the settlement of a dispute, ought to consult with a presidential member of the Commission. What is wrong here is that the wording is so vague as to reflect an illconceived notion of how these matters are actually dealt with.  Senator Lewis  stated that consultation is something less than submission, but he could not really explain to the Senate whether it would be required of a commissioner that he phone a presidential member to let him know the state of the game. Is a commissioner required to go into a face to face conference with a presidential member? How is he to acquaint that presidential member- and this is the point so ably made by  Senator Bishop-  with the full argument that he himself has been adjudicating upon? Perhaps, more importantly, how is he to convey to the presidential member the whole process of the argument that has occured before him? The process of being involved in. an attempt to settle a dispute is as important as the elements of the dispute. 
This will create an intolerable workload for the presidential member as he tries to grasp what may have gone on before a commissioner. Worse than that, it creates an unworkable situation for a commissioner because the parties before him know that they are not speaking to the person who can make the final decision. They know that somehow- though vaguely- the Bill requires some sort of approval to be given by a presidential member to a commissioner's tentative resolution of the dispute. That perhaps involves something unconstitutional but certainly something which denies natural justice to the parties because somebody who will be involved in saying whether a decision should be certified has not listened to the arguments put forward by the parties. That is a grave denial of natural justice to the parties involved in an industrial dispute. Somebody second hand, somebody acquainted by a report of a commissioner, is to have, it appears, final approval of the decision by the commissioner. 
Perhaps the most difficult aspect of this Bill to take on because of the public sentiment involved, and upon which the Government is playing, is the notion that the Commission is to be denied the power to order the payment of wages for time lost through industrial action. I take on this point because the Government propaganda on this clause of the Bill shows how out of touch and ignorant the Government and its supporters are of the actual operation of the arbitration system. The Government uses the slogan: 'No work, no pay'. That sounds appealing on the surface. But what is the actual practice of the Arbitration 
Commission? One finds that under present practice and law where claims have been granted by the Commission for payment of wages- strike pay- while an industrial dispute was in process, the Commission has awarded such strike pay only where it has found that the industrial action was necessitated by actions of the employer and that it would be unfair to expect employees to bear the loss of wages involved. In other words, it is not a common practice that covers all situations. The Arbitration Commission awards strike pay in situations where employers are judged to have been responsible in a very direct way for the withdrawal of labour by their employees. As  Mr Justice  Alley, in the Plumbers and Gasfitters Employees Union case very recently said: 
There is no proper basis for the payment of time lost as a result of industrial action unless the actions of the employer were so extreme that the refusal to work was the only reasonable course open to the employee. 
What this Government is doing is saying that that very reasonable practice of the Arbitration Commission- not some vague practice- may no longer occur because by law it will be prevented. That has two consequences. Firstly, it is very probably unconstitutional. That is what  Sir Richard  Kirby commented on in his statement on this matter. It places the Government in the situation of setting the parameters and the modus operandi for the settlement of industrial disputes whereas the Constitution places the settlement of industrial disputes in the hands of an independent conciliation and arbitration commission. According to our Constitution it is not for the government of the day to say what shall be the limits or methods by which the Arbitration Commission shall conciliate, settle and determine the resolution of industrial disputes. Secondly, of course, it simply means that the union or the group of employees concerned, who cannot recover wages lost because of an industrial dispute necessitated by the action of an employer, will move outside the arbitration system to get that strike pay. We should not think that this will be a seldom occurring matter. 
According to Arbitration Commission practice it is true that such a matter occurs only in those cases where the employer is at fault. According to figures of the Australian Bureau of Statistics industrial disputes caused by managerial policy amount to some 25 per cent of working days lost. It is all very well for  Senator Lewis  to talk about millions of working days lost, et. cetera. The question is: Who caused the industrial dispute which lead to the withdrawal of labour? When one looks at the Australian Bureau of Statistics figures on the proportion of total working days lost in 1977 and 1978 one finds that the six categories of causes of disputes are: Wages, hours of work, leave and pensions, managerial policy, physical working conditions and trade unionism. Of those six categories the only category which increased in volume in the years 1977 and 1978 were those disputes caused by managerial policy defined in the very narrowest sense. 
In fact, the number of working days lost due to industrial disputes caused by managerial policy- not disputes as to wages, hours of work, leave and pensions, physical working conditions and trade unionism- went from 23.8 per cent to 25.6 per cent. On those figures, over a quarter of the working days lost in Australia are lost because of what has been judged by the Arbitration Commission and recorded by the Bureau of Statistics to be managerial policy decisions. It is in those circumstances that employees, who have been denied strike pay during such disputes, will move outside the Arbitration Commission if this Bill goes through because their claims for pay in those situations are entirely reasonable. I do not think the fact that such employees will move outside the Arbitration system- despite all the protestations by this Government to the contrarywill unduly upset this Government. That action would justify the Government's program of misrepresentation and its general propaganda offensive in portraying unions as irresponsible. In fact, it may very well be that the whole Bill is designed to provoke and antagonise the trade union movement in order to enable this propaganda offensive to succeed at a forthcoming election. 
This Bill is simple propaganda that no reasonable senator or citizen could support in the face of condemnation by  Sir Richard  Kirby, the elder statesman of the conciliation and arbitration movement in Australia, in the face of published objections, supported by leading editorialists, of  Mr Justice  Staples; or in the face of the unanimous condemnation by the 25 commissioners of the arbitration system or in the face of the plea tonight by  Sir John  Moore for full consultation with the Government. No honourable senator on the Government benches in the face of those pleas for consultation and moderation- to say nothing about consultation with the trade union movement which is still offered- should accept this Bill. I recall that our spokesman in the other place,  Mr Mick  Young, said that the appropriate course was that there should be a cooling off period and that we should consult with all the parties concerned. That seems to be a reasonable and constructive approach. What one needs to see is legislation which is not simply the product of ideology and confrontation politics. I believe that in this legislation we have confrontation politics at its extreme as practised by its most constant practitioner within Australia-  Mr Fraser.  I exhort Government senators to reject this attempt to set the scene for an election. They should heed the warnings by editorialists and they should heed men of standing. They should reject this legislation because it will create an unworkable situation within which industrial disputes will not be solved as readily as they are at the moment. What is more, the legislation should be rejected because, as I have said, it strikes at the very heart of the Constitution which guarantees the integrity of our conciliation and arbitration system. For those reasons the Opposition rejects this Bill. 
Because I have only one or two minutes in which to speak and receive a reply from the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  I touch very briefly only on clause 16 which relates to the deregistration provisions. 
No, we took the Bill as a whole. The Minister has declared the whole Bill urgent. 
3. 
I am sorry, I thought we were discussing the whole of the Bill. 
Remainder of the Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
The Minister representing the Prime Minister will be aware of the critical shortages of avgas in various parts of Australia. Has his attention been drawn to Press reports today which state that the United States Government is refusing to allow shipments of aviation gasoline from Texas to Australia? If this is the case, may I assume that the Public Service and the appropriate Ministers have been unable to get a response from the United States Government officials? Therefore I ask whether the Prime Minister will take up directly and personally with  President  Carter the release of these supplies of avgas, given the importance of avgas to our great agricultural industries and to the general welfare of people in Australia living outside the great urban centres. 
I am sure that all honourable senators on this side of the chamber oppose this clause. We do so in spite of the taunt by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  that the Opposition has misconceived the important clause in the Bill which we ought to be opposing. We make no apology for the fact that we regard clauses dealing with the internal machinery of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to be of the essence of what this Bill is trying to do. The AttorneyGeneral is trying to place some sort of role on the Opposition. He is surprised that we should be more concerned with the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission than with a clause dealing with the deregistration of unions. We make no apology, at least at this stage of the Committee debate, for putting in such a prominent position our concern at the attempt to create an intolerable work load, delay and frustration within the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission itself. That description of the effect of this clause is not one that has been adopted by the Opposition simply as a propaganda exercise amongst the general public. It is a view that has obviously been taken- it has been repeated often enough in this debate- by the 25 commissioners of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and by  Sir John  Moore who came out of his sick bed to consult with members of the Commission yesterday. Late last night he consulted with the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  on this very point, that is the intolerable working situation which this clause will create for the Commission. 
The opposition by the 25 commissioners and the presidential members and the concern expressed by  Sir John  Moore have been made public. Why has the opposition been made public at such a late stage? It is because the Government refused to consult with the people directly affected. It is all very well to say that no consultation took place with the ACTU and CAGEO on 8 August, or whenever it was, because at that time they were boycotting the National Labour Consultative Council. They did so for very good reason. The fact is that the Government has not taken the opportunity it has had to confer with any of the unions, singly or collectively. It has not responded to the ACTU 's request today for more consultation, as  Senator Bishop  pointed out. My question is this: If the Attorney-General knows what went on at that meeting of the National Labour Consultative Council he would know- he ought to have the minutes before him- that the employers' representatives,  Mr Ray  Kirby and  Mr George  Polites, both indicated that they were opposed to this type of clause. They were opposed to it- this is the employers- because they said that it would interfere with the appeal system in that every decision of a commissioner would appear to be endorsed by a  deputy president. 
That is the sort of thing that we in the Opposition have been saying. It is now very clear that the only segment of the Australian community supporting this clause is the Government. Perhaps one might infer that not even the total Government had it in mind that this should be pushed through. It is fairly clear that the Industrial Relations ministry would have a much more practical attitude to the workability of this clause. It is clearly a product of the so-called industrial relations secretariat or unit within the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. It is from there that this legislation emanates. It is as a result of the Prime Minister's will and determination that this clause appears in the Bill. It has not got the support of the employers, the employees, or the arbitration commissioners. In the circumstances, it is little wonder, and the Opposition makes no apology for it, that we place our opposition to this clause in such a prominent position. 
Looking at the clause, we find that the commissioner, before making the award or certifying the memorandum of agreement, shall consult with the presidential member who is a member of that panel. In the very scant document emanating from the consultations last night between  Sir John  Moore and the Minister there is a clear indication that  Sir John  Moore, drawing on his vast experience, his legal knowledge, his practical knowledge of the workings of the arbitration system, found it difficult to determine the meaning of 'consult'. If a man of that vast experience and legal talent does not know whether consult' involves the approval of the  deputy president  and whether the  deputy president  can direct a commissioner, if those questions arise in the minds of  Sir John  Moore and the commissioners of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, why has not the Minister, rather than putting his own opinion of what the words involve, come into this Parliament with some amendments which clarify the meaning of consult', along the lines indicated in the statement emanating from last night's meeting? At least then we would have something other than this very obscure, very vague, very loose language which has caused concern within the Commission at the very highest and most expert level. In the end, what we have is a few remarks by the Minister, that it does not mean this and it does not mean that. He says that the requirement is to consult. That is an insulting reply to  Sir John  Moore, a simple tautology repeating the words of the Bill. That is the maximum that has come from this Government by way of clarifying the situation for the Commission. 
It is still not clear whether 'consult' means just a phone call, a notification of a tentative decision, a face-to-face consultation over some hours, perhaps some days, acquainting the  deputy president  with the elements of the dispute and the process by which the commissioner has reached his tentative conclusion, which process and the need to acquaint the  deputy president  with it is as important as the elements of the dispute. But whatever 'consult' might mean, taking it to be something milder than requiring the actual stamp of approval of the  deputy president  and understanding it to be something less than requiring the actual consent and assent of the  deputy president, Sir John  Moore asked for some limitations to be placed on that consultation because he could see that if it were required in every instance an intolerable work load would be created for the Commission. 
The reply of the Minister was simply that the granting of" any concession would lead to an increased risk of inconsistency. Unless this requirement of consultation operated in every instance, the Minister says that there would be an increased risk of inconsistency. Therefore he would make no concessions to  Sir John's  request. Surely we have a situation of the  President  of the Commission coming to some understanding of the meaning of this clause as indicated by the Minister and asking very reasonably that nevertheless some limitation be placed on the operation of the Bill. One would think that in that situation the Minister would make some sort of concession; that the Minister would realise that he had to balance absolute consistency with the placing of an intolerable strain upon the Commission. 

 Sir John obviously thought, and said to the Minister, that there would be occasions on which there would be delays in getting final decisions. He was saying to the Minister that there would be occasions on which a speedy resolution- an immediate, virtually instant resolution- of an industrial dispute would be of much greater service to industrial relations in this country and to the general public than would be an absolutely consistent decision with the decisions made in other sections of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It is a question of balance. That plea was absolutely rejected by the Minister. It is no wonder that we in the Senate are taking up the plea of  Sir John  and asking that the Government consider whether it should not accept some amendment which would allow the Commission to consult where it is practicable, where an absolutely speedy resolution of a matter by one commissioner is not required. That seems to be a reasonable request by  Sir John,  but it has been completely overruled by the Minister. 
My final point repeats one made by  Senator Chipp  earlier in the debate today. It concerns what I believe to be a piece of obscure wording in the document which emanated from the meeting last night. I think it tries, probably deliberately, to impute to  Sir John  an agreement with the Minister's point of view of which there is no proof that he actually intended to convey. After  Sir John  requested that a limitation in the proposed consultative procedures be introduced, the Minister replied: 
Any qualification on the need to consult would obviously carry with it an increased risk of inconsistency. 
The Minister continued: 

 Sir John acknowledged this point. 
Acknowledgement could simply be a nod; it could simply be, as it says, a recognition that that is the case. There has clearly been an attempt to convey an implication that  Sir John  agreed that there would be an increased risk of inconsistency and that he therefore dropped his opposition and put aside his request. Where was the indication that that was the case? I think we need an answer from the Minister. 
-That is right. What we need to hear from the Minister, I believe, is a further elaboration of whether  Sir John  was satisfied with the reply, in the sense of agreeing that he would go back to the meeting from which he came with a message that he accepted as the only workable situation that which was indicated by the Minister. There is no doubt that this clause is an attempt by the Government to put into inflexible, legal and rigid terms something which could have operated quite well within the Commission in a flexible and informal manner. By attempting to put the terms into legislative form, I believe the Government is creating a situation where the Arbitration Commission will find it most difficult to carry out its functions as laid down in the objects of section 2 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act of 1 904. 
The consideration of the Bill as a whole is regarded by the Opposition as a course being undertaken under protest. I will be very brief to enable other senators to speak if possible. I primarily ask a question of the Attorney-General, not in his capacity as Minister responsible for this Bill but as Attorney-General. I ask him whether it is in accordance with the Constitution, with all the democratic and legal traditions underlying the Australian community, for it to be provided in a Bill presented to this Parliament that an organisation might be deregistered or be done away with; that the Government might suspend benefits flowing to its members, including wages; that the Government can take control of the funds of an organisation within the Australian community simply be taking a decision in Cabinet. Whilst it is true that the Bill provides as a preliminary step that a declaration has to be sought from the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, once that declaration is obtained at any point in the six months following the Cabinet may decide to deregister a union or exact some lesser penalty for any reason which occurs to the Cabinet as being sufficient and good. It may have nothing to do with the original reasons surrounding the dispute. It may have nothing to do with an attempt to resolve the dispute. 
Not only may the Cabinet deregister the union or deal in a lesser way with the union in that six months, once the deregistration is achieved it requires permission from the Cabinet for the organisation to be reregistered. So it may be two years, three years or four years in the wilderness, outside the machinery of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. In view of the decision of the High Court in the Communist Party case, I should have thought that any Attorney-General would have to do a lot of explaining to this Senate to show why Australian citizens and Australian organisations should be stripped of their rights- indeed, completely extinguished- by the dictates of Cabinet without reference to any criteria argued before an independent tribunal. 
I present the following petition from 532 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the very survival of mankind is at stake, with the stockpile of nuclear weapons able to kill every person on earth 24 times over and with conventional arms of increasing sophistication having enough destructive power to destroy most life on earth; 
Noting that, while millions starve, expenditure on the arms race is $1000 million per day for the World, and $7 million per day for Australia; 
And noting that the U.N. Children's Fund, UNICEF, has listed 'peace and disarmament' as a theme for the International Year of the Child; and further noting that a reduction in expenditure on arms could contribute in both developed and developing countries to the eradication of hunger and disease and to the provision of more adequate housing, education, health services, economic security and social welfare for all people: 
In the interests of children in Australia and around the world, particularly in developing countries, and as a matter of highest priority during the International Year of the Child. 
We call upon the Australian Government to give political leadership both nationally and internationally in working towards: 
general and complete disarmament under effective international control; 
) the establishment of the Pacific and Indian Oceans as nuclear-free zones; and 
the disbanding of all nuclear bases. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is the Minister aware of the media reports of a speech over the weekend by  Mr Ian  Spicer of the Victorian Employers Federation in which he stated that the man hours lost to commerce and industry through accidents at the work place are 40 times those lost due to industrial disputes and cost the community many hundreds of millions of dollars?  Senator Carrick  will recall the large amount of time allocated by the Government to Senate debate last week on legislation dealing with industrial disputes. In view of the concern expressed by this member of an employer group that our parliamentary sights are too much set on the lesser evil, I ask: How much time will the Government allot in the last few weeks of this session for discussion by the Senate of industrial accidents, which are so much more destructive of our industrial and economic well-being? 
-The Senate is discussing as a matter of public importance: 
The increasing world expenditure on arms and the need for all governments to exercise their influence to arrest this trend for the benefit of mankind. 
When I saw that topic for discussion I was reminded necessarily of that quotation from the prophet Isaiah in the Jewish tradition when he said: 
They shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into  pruninghooks:  nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more. 
Who would deny that in that quotation there is harboured the deepest aspiration of mankind- to live in a peaceful society where, in harmony, he can come to full human development. It is more than a yearning; it is a deep ethical imperative. Yet we as a world community continue year after year to pursue policies and to implement programs which are diametrically opposed to that yearning of mankind. We have no right to be surprised, therefore, when in turning our back on that imperative we find a world community which is unable to bear the strains, conflicts and distortions which have brought about the virtual collapse of much of the economic system as we know it and certainly of the social and political interrelations that should obtain between sovereign states. It is a fact that today the world is spending $1.2 billion a day on military expenditure. Even Australia has an expenditure rate of $8m a day. But Australia's expenditure is fairly minor compared with that pursued certainly by developed industrial countries and also by some of the developing countries, as was pointed out by Senators Sim and Hamer. 
However, I must, if I may, take issue with both those honourable senators for what I thought was an unfortunate tone in their castigating of developing countries for pursuing military expenditure at the rate at which they do. That they do so is reprehensible, but who taught them? Who taught their leadership? Who seduced their leadership into adopting military force as the way in which to exercise political authority? Where are the arms manufacturers located? Which governments sponsor and have within their defence agencies teams of salesmen who go out into developing countries and encourage them to spend billions of dollars on those armaments, on those types of expenditures, on that infrastructure, rather than on the needs of their people? We have them in Australia.  Senator Hamer  is shaking his head. He obviously does not know that our own Department of Productivity sells $22m worth of arms to more than 26 countries around the world, to say nothing of what private Australian firms sell and to say nothing of the so-called defence co-operation gifts. So, let us not forget that it is a two-way process. 
I am being diverted from the main topic, which I would have hoped could have been considered in a bipartisan manner.  Senator Hamer  also brought up the matter of the United States of America bases. Let me put the matter in a general context. We bring up this topic because, among other things, in the world we have a balance of terror which is sustained by nuclear weapons on the part of both major super-powers. Subsumed under that general structure we have conventional weapons which are able to be unleashed with all their destruction and malicious effect on human beings around the world. Only yesterday I read of a jumping booby-trap which, when activated, leaps up to about eye level and destroys a person. Of course, boobytraps lie around, to the great danger of civilian populations, for many years after a war has ceased in an area. What is immoral about this is the fact that an innocent civilian may be put at risk. That is precisely why members of the Australian Labor Party are concerned. 
The issue is not simply about United States bases in Australia. Australia is participating in a system of deterrence which is fundamentally immoral in that it is ultimately directed and promises- -retributively perhaps, second strike perhaps- to destroy civilian populations which, by definition, are innocent. It is directed against cities. President Carter, when trying to convince the United States Senate that he was not undermining United States security, made this point in 1979: 
Just one of our relatively invulnerable Poseidon submarines . . . carries enough warheads to destroy every large and medium-sized city in the Soviet Union. 
It is directed against cities, against innocent civilian populations. They are innocent because they are civilian and not military personnelevery commentator on war since the just war theory was invented says that that is immoraland innocent in a double sense because, living under totalitarian regimes, they have no means of rejecting their government and its policies, which may have led to the war. 
I am being diverted. I wish to return now to the main point of this discussion, which is to the effect that the military expenditure of $420 billion a year is not for the benefit of mankind. That is so in some very simple pragmatic senses, which should appeal to anyone who wishes to see a prosperous, developed Western world, for that matter. Such expenditure has disastrous effects on our economic growth. 
Let me sustain that argument in this way: The arms race is fundamentally inflationary. Military spending generates a stream of buying power without producing an equivalent supply of economically useful goods for the civilian market. The excess of disposable income over available supplies steadily builds up a generalised pressure on prices. In time that excess becomes a prescription for permanent inflation. Military demand also adds directly to the pressure on prices for specific goods. Military programs are heavy buyers of many of the commodities and labour skills that are in shortest supply. I think it was  Senator Sim  who pointed out that the consumption of petroleum products by the United States military machine alone is equivalent to all of that consumed in Africa in any one year. 
These are some of the distortions that creep into our own economic relationships. Research and development, of particular concern to  Senator Puplick,  for example, are completely undermined by a distortion whereby our major scientific endeavour- our best brains- is perverted into evermore refining processes of destruction. That would be easy to demonstate by a comparison of the growth of the United States economy, as opposed to the Japanese economy since the Second World War. There is an inverse relationship between military expenditure and capital expenditure in civilian investments, which has corresponding effects on the growth of the national product. The Japanese national product of course has expanded very rapidly because funds have been available for research and development and for capital expenditure in the civilian sense, whereas in the United Statesalthough starting from a higher base- the gross national product has not grown as rapidly. This has been partly caused by the proportion of expenditure devoted to military capital goods and research and development in those areas. 
Whilst these facts alone should give us pause and remind us of how blind we are to our very own well-being in pursuing military expenditure on the scale that we are, there is a deeper, more ethical and more compelling reason for bending every effort to bring about disarmament, or at least a reduction in arms or military expenditure. We need to recognise the virtually irreparable damage we are doing to the social fabric and to human beings by their hundreds of millions around the world. A fundamental and grave injustice is being done to hundreds of millions- to billions- of people around the world without a shot being fired. I remember Pope Paul VI making the statement: 'Armaments kill the poor by causing them to starve'. I believe that in that quotation one has a ready summary of the effect, the distortions, that creep into the balance between military and social expenditures which should characterise any civilised world community. 
That was starkly and clearly illustrated by some figures which were brought forward by  Senator Gietzelt.  He pointed out that even trifling cuts in military expenditure could bring about immense benefits for mankind, particularly in the field of health. He pointed out that the World Health Organisation spent around $83m- a mere $83m, mere compared with military expenditure- to eradicate smallpox over a 10-year period. That amount would not buy a modern strategic bomber. The program to eradicate malaria, estimated at a cost of some $450m, is dragging on owing to a lack of funds, yet that total cost over the years is only half of what is spent every day for military purposes and only a third of what will be spent strictly for procurement to set up a Trident nuclear submarine. We have 66 million people living in countries in which malaria is endemic. Malaria compounds the effects of malnutrition and adds its effects to all the privations of poverty. That leads to a very high disease rate and to a very high mortality rate, especially among the young. 
There are so many things which any reasonable, rational, world community should set out to do with even a fraction of the funds which at the moment are being spent on the accumulation of vast arsenals directed to destruction. We have an absolutely irrational, diabolical situation in which the world continues to engage in expenditure which has as its aim the maiming and killing of fellow human beings instead of the re-creation of the face of the earth, sustaining people and enabling them to grow in a relative degree of health and with hope. If there is something which pervades every part of the world- certainly amongst the youth- it is this feeling of hopelessness that we live in an age which seems to be in the grip of diabolical perversions of the sorts of social expenditures which governments are willing to undertake. 
I refer to a very good study called ' World Military and Social Expenditures 1979' by Ruth Sivard. Taking 10 per cent of the moneys presently spent on world military expenditures, she devised some eight or ten programs which would bring about a tremendous increase in meeting the essential needs of humanity. She wants safe water for all within the decade. She stated that contaminated water was responsible for four out of five infectious diseases, with diarrhoeal disease being the most common cause of death in young children. She wants to set aside $4 billion for that purpose. Vaccine protection for all children would be another program. In the developing world 15 million children die in a single year. Many are killed by diseases such as diphtheria, tetanus, measles, poliomyelitis and so on. These children could be saved by adequate immunisation programs. 
I believe that this matter of public importance has the support of all members of the chamber. It is saying that the real human and social requirements of the world 's population need to be met by governments. The Australian Government can take it from this debate that this chamber, this Parliament and all right thinking Australians of goodwill will support and demand every effort on the part of our diplomats around the world and our Ministers, to try to divert some of the tremendous expenditure on armaments and the military into projects which are creative and fulfilling for human beings- not only this generation, which seems trapped in this folly, but also future generations which I hope will look back to us in 1979 and perhaps to the United Nations Disarmament Week and say that at least we began to tackle this immense problem with humanity. 
It is my intention to speak quite briefly. I rise only because of some interjections concerning the onus of proof. If possible I should like some clarification from the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  on the onus of proof. It seems to me, and I ask the Minister whether I am correct in thinking this, that a person has to satisfy the Director-General that he himself has not been involved in a strike which leads to his applying for unemployment benefit. However, the Director-General has to be satisfied that a person applying is unemployed because of the strike of another member of the same union before he can refuse benefit. 
In other words, is it a fact that under this legislation a person who is not on strike but who is out of work because of the strike of another member of his union can get unemployment benefit quite automatically, as it were, unless the DirectorGeneral cares to make an inquiry and satisfy himself as to the relationship between the applicant for unemployment benefit and the person actually causing his unemployment. Does the Director-General have to satisfy himself as to the status of a person seeking a benefit when he is unemployed because of the strike of another? 
I express my opposition to the tenor and the provisions of the Overseas Students Charge Bill 1979 and the Overseas Students Charge Collection Bill 1979 and to support fully the amendment moved by the Opposition. Before I detail my reasons for so doing, I wish to respond to some of the points made by  Senator Davidson,  as they were utterly without foundation. I refer firstly to his statement that there is widespread concern in the Australian community about the subsidising by the Australian taxpayer of the tertiary education of overseas students in Australia. Where is  Senator Davidson's  evidence for that widespread concern? It does not exist, except where it is whispered in the xenophobia and the racism which is pandered to by this legislation. I have not seen any evidence of it in the public sphere. I doubt that  Senator Davidson  can produce any such evidence. I refer secondly to his statement that many of those students apply for enrolment in courses which are of little use to them back in their home countries. That is totally at variance with the facts. In fact, overseas students in Australia predominantly undertake courses of study which will benefit their home countries upon their return. 
I will respond to that defamatory remark shortly.  Mr Deputy President,  I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a comparative table showing, in percentage terms, overseas students in Australia and Australian students by field of study. I have shown the table to the  Deputy  Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Durack). 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="083232197910256_97_9.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the Senate. That table shows, for example, that 22 per cent of all overseas students in Australia are studying engineering or engineering technology, whereas 7.9 per cent of Australian students choose to be engaged in that field of study. So the percentage of overseas students engaged in that very practical, useful field of study is something like three times that of Australian students. Let me take another example. Of all the overseas students in Australia, 4.9 per cent are engaged in the course of building, surveying and architecture, whereas 2.3 per cent of all Australian students are engaged in that field of study. Opposed io that, only 1 1 .4 per cent of overseas students are undertaking a course in the liberal studies, humanities, social sciences, behavioural studies- perhaps they are the studies which  Senator Davidson  had in mind- whereas 33.7 per cent of Australian students are engaged in that field of study. So much for that. 
It is remarkable that this Bill should be brought into the Senate under the auspices of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  when it is very clear from the wording of the Bill that the charges involved are imposed on a student in respect of his enrolment in a tertiary institution. In other words, the Bill relates to tuition fees; however it is dressed up it has nothing to do with visa fees. The mere fact that the machinery is under the control of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs does not disguise the fact that this is a fee to do with enrolment in a tertiary institution. 
Why is it then that  Senator Carrick  has managed to evade- he has done so- in Question 
Time any formal responsibility to Parliament for this Bill? It must be because he realises that the introduction of the Bill is at variance, as  Senator Colston  pointed out, with the very firm and categorical assurances that he has given to Australian students and universities that no tertiary education fees will be introduced in 1980. The letters in which he has stated that fact to representatives of the Australian Union of Students have already been spoken about by  Senator Colston.  I do not need to repeat them. One can be sure that no Australian student can henceforth accept any assurances, however categorically, given by this Government concerning tertiary education fees. If this Bill is to be under the control of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, who is an aspirant to the foreign affairs portfolio, it is remarkably insensitive to the foreign policy implications involved in this exercise. 
The goodwill generated by the welcoming of overseas students into Australia is immense. I will elaborate later for  Senator Hamer's  benefit, on aspects of the students returning to their home countries. It is evident that when such people return to their home country they enter- by virtue of their education in Australia- into the very highest decision-making levels, whether it be in industry, commerce, public corporations, the Public Service, professional areas or political life. Having experienced three, four or five years in a liberal democracy such as Australia these people return home with an understanding which can only benefit our commercial and political relations with those countries. 
For an investment of some $6m we are gaining all that. I cannot think of any expenditure of a mere $6m which could devise such a system more calculated to create within the Pacific region and in south and south-eastern Asia a body of influential opinion inclined to understanding Australia. It must auger well for our political and commercial relations with that area. Yet the Government says that it is its aim to have students in this country to enjoy the benefits of our education system and return to their country to positions of influence in the decision-making apparatus. The Government says: 'That is fine; that is a good aim. But let us deal only with the children of the very wealthy elite. Let us perpetuate privilege for certain families and ethnic groups in those developing countries'. That will be the effect of this Bill. It must be the effect of charging an extra $1,500 to $2,000 a year for undergraduate courses and $2,500 for postgraduate courses on top of the $3,500 to $4,000 a year which families and community groups in 

<graphic href="083232197910256_97_9.jpg"></graphic>

those home countries must find in order to sustain the living costs of an overseas student in Australia. These families are already finding some $3,000 or $4,000 at least to sustain a son or daughter who is receiving tertiary education in this country. To find an extra $1,500 to $2,500 will put education beyond the limits of certain families and community groups. They band together in many instances to sustain their youthful students in Australia. 
Of course, not only will this Bill put education beyond the reach of the helping sustenance of families and groups in the communities that the students come from but also it will put certain Australian community aid groups in a position where they cannot offer as much assistance and as much help as they did previously. For example, I hold a letter from a Tasmanian lady well known in the field of overseas student assistance,  Mrs Margaret  Eldridge, the convener of the Host Family Scheme for Overseas Students in Hobart. Amongst other things, she says: 
Whilst aware that some students who come here have adequate means, those of us involved in the welfare of overseas students know only too well, that this is not true of all students. Already there are those who find the  cost  of living here a financial problem and the impost, including that part which will have to be paid in Australia, is adding to this burden . . . Other students are brought to Australia by voluntary organisations and church groups who .view their efforts as aid to developing countries. These groups will now find that they can bring half the number of students or will have to raise twice as much money to bring the same number. 
That is the situation that is being brought about by this Bill. The Bill will prevent able and talented young people from merely moderate or poor families in Asia and in the Pacific, from coming to this country to further their studies in the tertiary field. It will close off for many students who belong to minority racial or ethnic groups the only possibility for acquiring a tertiary education, given the quotas and other devices used by their home governments to exclude them from the benefits of teritary education. One has in mind here the Chinese and Indians in Malaysia and perhaps the Tamils in Sri Lanka. There is little point in pointing to the United Kingdom and the United States, as some Government speakers did, and saying that they impose such charges. They are not in a comparable position. We are the country adjacent to the millions in the developing countries of this region and we have an inescapable obligation, perhaps forced upon us but certainly derived from our geography and affluence, to make education available to a number, limited perhaps, of the most talented, not the wealthiest, youth in those countries so that they may return to serve their own people. Surely that is the point. 
The Opposition in no way would oppose an effort to ensure that the criteria for admission to our tertiary education institutions are so designed that the most talented come here and that the courses they undertake will be the most useful to them upon their return. But why add to those criteria the fact that they must also be very wealthy by the standard of their home countries? Not only are there foreign policy implications in this Bill which makes it a disaster, but also there are educational reasons for expressing concern. They are, firstly, that those who come to Australia because of this extra financial barrier, will not necessarily be the most talented people available from those developing countries. This means that even in our undergraduate courses we will be deprived of the benefit of having studying within our tertiary institutions the most talented overseas students. Perhaps this has particular significance when one looks at postgraduate studies because where one has research at a high level, it is quite clear that country of origin and racial or ethnic considerations make no difference whatsoever. One is looking for the best available talent to make a contribution not to Australia, not to their home country, but to the field of study concerned, for the benefit of the world community. 
There can be no doubt that the contributions which overseas students make to our postgraduate research effort in Australia are immense. Only last week I had the pleasure of talking with some overseas students on Sunday night in Wollongong. I recall very well a Pakistani student whose research into cancer no doubt will be of great benefit to mankind. During this week I had discussions here in Parliament House with a Sri Lankan post-graduate student who is studying the earth's magnetic field. These studies perhaps cannot be related to benefit to their home countries, but I am making a plea on behalf of learning itself. Australia ought to be making available in its post-graduate courses, for the sake of those post-graduate courses themselves and for the sake of higher learning, opportunities for overseas students to participate when they have the talent and ability to do so. 
I take up  Senator Hamer's  interjection about these students returning home. Let us be quite clear what is involved. Are we offering these overseas students schooling certificates, diplomas, degrees, or are we offering them education? If we claim that we wish to offer overseas students education- even at a price- to say that they must return home immediately upon the completion of their formal studies is to disrupt seriously, to truncate and I believe in almost every field, directly to contradict the educational process. 
That is unproven and is a defamatory statement concerning these students. It is an unthinking, ignorant policy that would send them home. It reflects and fosters the xenophobic racial attitude which lies latent in Australians. To answer  Senator Hamer's  interjection precisely, as I recall it, the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs claimed that somewhere between 70 per cent and 75 per cent of overseas students apply for, and are granted, permanent resident status. That is not equivalent to saying that 70 to 75 per cent of overseas students having been granted that status, remain permanently in Australia. Why is there a disparity between the two propositions? How can we explain the application by students for permanent resident status? 
And acceptance. I will explain the situation of one category of students, which even  Senator Hamer-  I know that  Senator Sim  would agree also- would wish to remain here. I refer to students from Laos, Vietnam and Cambodia, who cannot return to their home countries and who would in any case qualify for refugee status. A large percentage of those who apply for this status have been advised by the Government that if they want that very necessary post-graduate work experience they ought to apply for, and will be granted, permanent resident status in order to spend one, two or three years in the work force gaining those skills and completing their education in order to return to their home countries with something reasonable to offer their employers. 
In fact, in talking to students in Wollongong, where I was the guest of  Mr Dewendra  Singh, the  Chairman  of that area's Overseas Students Society, one encountered engineers, accountants, agriculturists and so on for whom some years' experience in the work force is absolutely essential if they are to make any contribution upon their return home. Make no mistake, they want to return to their families and their home countries. It is a natural human urge. They want to build a better society upon their return. For Australia to do as  Senator Hamer  suggests- that is, to send these students back immediately they complete their certificates, diplomas and degrees- would be an utter waste of the supplementary funds which, even under this Bill, the Australian taxpayer has to pay in order to sustain these overseas students in tertiary institutions. They would be utterly wasted because we would be returning to developing nations persons who may have a diploma but who were unable to offer anything to a prospective employer. 
The fact is that this Bill, which has to do with the commencement of courses rather than with the return home of students, will have a disastrous impact on our international relations. It is not even good educationally. It is simply another ill-conceived project of the Treasury in order to raise revenue. That can be the only explanation for such a scheme. It is supported by spurious reasons against which only cogent arguments can be, and have been, mounted by the Opposition. In order to obtain $5m or $6m in revenue this legislation proposes to deny us the possibility of aiding the moderately wealthy families of the Pacific and South East Asia from sending their youth to Australia who upon their return will be in positions of influence in the decision-making processes in commerce, industry and public life in their home country. We are by this legislation sustaining the very wealthy priviliged elite and privileged ethnic groups within the developing countries. How are we getting away with it? We are getting away with it because, as  Senator Colston  said, these students are voteless. They are voiceless within this community. They are peculiarly vulnerable and virtually defenceless. They are voiceless particularly at this time when the Government brings in this legislation two weeks before the major examinations within every tertiary education institution in Australia. There is no way in which the solidarity among overseas students within those institutions can be marshalled two weeks before the final examination, and  Senator Puplick  who has benefited from the tertiary education system would well know that that is the fact. 
No, these should not because as I have tried to say, they are not in a comparable position to Australian students. We are promoting what I believe is, if not a species of foreign aid- apparently we are not allowed to use that term in relation to them, according to  Senator Puplick-  and accepting  Mr Grassby's  terminology, international friendship and amity. Certainly $6m is a very small price to pay in order to achieve that. This legislation is ignorant. It is retrograde. It is part of an ill-conceived scheme which can only return to these developing countries, particularly if  Senator Hamer  's proposal is carried through, poorly educated sons and daughters of the wealthy elite. We of the Opposition say that the whole scheme needs to be thought out afresh. For that reason, I have much pleasure in supporting the Opposition's amendment that 'consideration of the Bill be deferred until the Government presents a comprehensive proposal for a program of educational aid for students from developing countries according to denned criteria including priority attention to academic ability, the needs of the developing nations and the needs of particular students'. 
I rise to ask a question that I would like to have asked at Question Time but did not have the opportunity to do so, perhaps largely due to the extensive answers given by the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  to several questions posed to him. It is about a problem which has arisen in north-west Tasmania and, no doubt, in other parts of Australia. Ministers will be aware of the need for this country to encourage enterprising and inventive Australians in the developing of alternatives to petroleum as a fuel for transport and agricultural use. We on the north-west coast of Tasmania, not a few miles from where I live, are fortunate to have a  Mr David  Cunningham who has an imaginative and constructive mind and who has drawn on his engineering and farming experience, in cooperation with the staff and students of the local technical college, to try to devise an on-farm power alcohol distillation system which will enable him to run farm machinery. Eventually it could have implications for general transport use as a liquid fuel of the ethanol type, that is, derived from vegetable products, particularly beet. 
In trying to carry out this enterprise he has run into a licensing problem with the Bureau of Customs, which is now a division of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. He applied for a general distillation licence to manufacture power alcohol from vegetable matter at his premises in Ulverstone. This licence was denied by the Bureau of Customs. I believe that the attitude of the Bureau to licensing such on-farm alcohol distillation machinery is probably bound up with the days when such distillation took place for the production of alcohol for use as a beverage for human beings rather than as an alternative source of energy for machinery. Such is the history of the licensing system that it appears that, for example, the still would have to be capable of processing 675 litres of wash per hour. Only then would a licence be granted. Of course, this is out of the question for an experimental pilot plant such as that which the inventive  Mr Cunningham  has in mind. Further, it might well be that because of its association with alcohol as a beverage, some sort of excise would need to be paid on any alcohol produced by this distillation machinery. 
My question for passage to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  by the Minister for Science and the Environment, who is in the chamber, is simply: Will the Minister urgently consider the removal of such restrictions as exist either on the issuing of licences or the imposition of excise on the construction and operation of a distillation plant to manufacture power alcohol from vegetable matter? I know that  Senator Webster  has a keen interest in scientific endeavours of the small scale as well as those of the large scale that come under his responsibility, particularly those of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. Not only is a fully professional effort being bent to devise means to save Australia and perhaps the world from an energy starved future, but also there are the small scale efforts by imaginative, constructive, practical and enterprising Australians such as  Mr Cunningham.  I believe that the Government would do well to support them by removing such barriers as appear to exist to their endeavours. I ask that the matter be given urgent consideration by the Minister. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and follows an answer that the honourable senator gave to a question from me concerning the Youth Transitional Training Scheme.  Senator Carrick  said: 'I am happy to say that, unlike the Federal Opposition, all of the six States are eager and willing to co-operate'. I ask: Which of the six States agreed to the Scheme's payment of a maximum of $25 a week means tested allowance to those undertaking the Scheme, because they were unable to enter the workforce, which is $1 1 a week less than the unemployment benefit which is not means tested? What was the nature of the means test eagerly and willingly accepted by the six States? Which of the six States have indicated their support for the technical training scheme? How do they see that squaring with traditional apprenticeship training? 
I present the following petition from 800 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we, the undersigned citizens of Australia believe there are conflicting community standards prevailing relating to offensive language. Citizens are frequently charged and convicted by law for the use of offensive language in public whereas obscene and profane language canbe beamed into the privacy of the home and heard by people of all ages by way of Television and Radio and offended citizens have no redress. 
The petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should take all possible steps to ensure all personnel associated with the transmission and broadcasting of Television and Radio be required to adhere to an acceptable code of ethics relating to language thus giving community members confidence that breaches of common decency codes will not occur. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Gambling Casino in Canberra 
I preface my question to the Minister for Education by stating that he will be aware that in a decentralised State such as Tasmania the provision of an adequate Tertiary 
Education Assistance Scheme allowance is essential to enable many young adult Australians to secure their right to a tertiary education; and further, that this is of particular concern to northwest coasters wishing to attend the University in Hobart or colleges of advanced education courses in Hobart and Launceston, who are finding that accommodation costs far exceed the maximum TEAS allowance. I ask: Will the Government give urgent consideration to introducing, for the next academic year, firstly, a maximum TEAS allowance that will have been restored to the level of the poverty line, where it was when TEAS was introduced in 1974 and, secondly, a cut-off point for parental income, at which the means test begins to operate, that has been raised to a level equivalent to that of 1 974, that is, indexed for inflation? 
-The Senate is engaged tonight in a most auspicious enterprise. We, as the elected representatives of the Australian people, are involved in creating for the first time an Act relating to human rights. The Human Rights Commission Bill will become law perhaps with some slight amendments. Therefore, unlike some projects which have been in this Parliament on previous occasions to do with human rights, this legislation has a particular import and we have to approach it with some gravity and even goodwill. On a first glance one would say that this Bill is part of that world wide enterprise that has had particular force since the Second World War when nations in reaction to the Nazi and the general Axis tyrannies decided that documents needed to be drafted which set forth as clearly as possible that human beings had certain human rights which should be respected by whatever form of government had control of their country, be it a Communist socalled dictatorship of the proletariat or a Western democratic model. 
Whilst the Bill before us appears to be in line with the world wide enterprise I regret to say- it is a cause of genuine regret for me- that an examination of it proves it to be purely cosmetic. It is not exactly deceptive but one is led to have suspicions about the real commitment of this Government to the securing of human rights within Australia. To put it briefly, when reading the Bill one finds that the Bill specifically disables the proposed Human Rights Commission from dealing with those very areas that  Senator Puplick  outlined, namely those coming within State jurisdictions, where breaches of human rights most commonly and notoriously occur within this nation. Where the Act concerns itself with rights it in no way secures them on behalf of individuals by providing appropriate and effective remedies to ensure that they are really rights and not merely privileges enjoyed at the grant and the whim of the majority for the time being. 
One is immediately alerted to the fact that the Bill may not achieve what its proponents claim can be achieved. Even the preamble speaks of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights having been opened for signature on 19 December 1 966 and of having come into force. But where is the statement that this nation has gone into the international community and ratified that covenant. There is no such statement because no such ratification has occurred. 
This morning  Senator Wheeldon,  in the presentation of a report, as a citizen of Australia was able to talk about the violation of human rights in Russia because since the Second World War the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics has been moved, however reluctantly, by the international movement of which I spoke, to go to Helsinki and to say to other nation states: 'Human rights, though affecting individuals within our jurisdiction, are of sufficient international concern that we will bind ourselves to respect them'. That undertaking was given between nation states. We have not joined the international community as we ought to have done and said that we will be bound in that way. We have not ratified that treaty. Even in the proposed amendments circulated a few moments ago by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack),  one finds no clear indication that that is even about to occur. We may get a statement that it might occur before Christmas. Why has it not occurred in the years since 1966? Why has it not occurred in the past couple of years? Why has it not preceded this Bill coming into the Parliament, as a token of the good faith of the Government? 
Even accepting that the Bill does intend to aid the civilising of Australia in the activity of government, government officials and others, and comes into some harmony with the International Covenant, one is entitled to think that the Bill is inadequate. I shall read from a statement made by no less a person than the Federal  President  of the United Nations Association of Australia, a  Mrs C.  Storey, in a media release of 2 October 1979. That Association is a voluntary group, a non-government organisation in Australia concerned particularly to ensure that United Nations covenants such as the one we are discussing do find effective implementation within national communities. The Federal  President,  after a detailed criticism of the Bill, concluded the media release with these words: 
An overall assessment of the legislation currently proceeding through Parliament must conclude that it is not strong enough to bring the human rights situation in Australia into line with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. 
It is a cause of regret that I have to agree with that statement. I will outline why that happens to be true. But there is a reason even more inherent in my status as a senator that I find I cannot accept that the Government has a total commitment in this matter. A full year ago, on 23 November 1978, the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs presented to this Parliament a report on the scrutiny of Bills. In that report we, as a parliamentary committee, in a bipartisan, unanimous resolution, recommended that a parliamentary committee should be established to maintain a watching brief on all Bills introduced into the Parliament to highlight the provisions which had an impact on persons, either by interfering with their rights or by subjecting them to the exercise of undue delegations of power. 
We reasoned that, having been alerted by such a committee to a deficiency, danger or jeopardy in a proposed piece of legislation, the Parliament, with that recommendation of the committee before it, could make a judgment on whether to proceed with the Bill as drafted on the basis of countervailing considerations or whether to accept the recommendation of the committee that the Bill should be withdrawn in that it did, as the committee judged, put into jeopardy the human rights of an individual. In 1 2 months the Government has made no response to that Senate Standing Committee recommendation. On that basis, I certainly find it difficult to believe that the Government is really committed to the proposed Commission's working effectively when in the Bill it is stated that the Commission may have before it proposed laws; that is, Bills. If the Government refuses in the course of a year to come into the Parliament and say: Yes, we agree that a parliamentary committee should have Bills before it in order to inform the Parliament, before it passes those Bills into law, that those Bills might place in jeopardy a human right', what confidence can we have that the Government will put before the proposed Commission Bills, or even enactments, which may have such a dangerous effect on human rights in Australia? 
I must say that I regret that this Bill in no way, despite its pretensions, falls into the general movement for the protection of human rights which has swept the world since the Second World War. I suppose that the major deficiency is that there is a lack of remedy for the rights which are outlined as the concern of the Australian community and which are to come within the jurisdiction of the proposed Commission. There is a very old legal maxim: Ubi jus, ib remedium- where there is a right there is a remedy. That is an ancient part of our law. Chief Justice Holt, a great chief justice, born in 1642, Chief Justice at the age of 23 years, Chief Justice for 41 years- not some woolly-minded academic- a man who was harsh on treason and sedition but who held out against the prosecution of witches, who adopted a liberal construction on statutes compelling church attendance, a man who was concerned with human rights and who used his unparallelled position as Chief Justice for 41 years to secure them, said of that elementary maxim: 'Whenever the common law gives a right it also gives a remedy'. He said, in Ashby v. White: 
If a man has a right he must have a means to vindicate and maintain it and a remedy if he is injured in the exercise and enjoyment of it. Indeed, it is a vain thing to imagine a right without a remedy, for want of right and want of remedy are reciprocal. 
There is no doubt that this Bill is totally deficient according to the traditions of our rule of law when, in setting out rights, it fails to provide adequate and effective remedies such as were contained in the Human Rights Bill put down in this place in 1973 by the then  Senator Murphy.  One will recall that that Bill contained detailed provision concerning civil proceedings which allow for injunctions to restrain a defendant from repeating the relevant act injuring a human right. It contained provisions allowing the direction of the defendant to do a specified act to place the complainant in a position which he ought to have been in had his right not been violated. It contained provision for damages against the defendant in respect of loss he might have suffered and that loss was quantifiable. It included also provision for loss of dignity, humiliation and injury arising from the fact that he had been denied a human right. 
The Bill contained various other provisions, including the very important one that, when evidence was obtained as a consequence of contravention of a human right, such evidence would not be admissible to a court or tribunal for any purpose. That is a very salutary and effective means of preventing, for example, an abuse of human rights which should be enjoyed while a criminal investigation is under way by the police force. As I said, that part of our rule of law is completely ignored by the Bill which is before us, which makes the Bill so deficient that one must query whether in fact it is any more than windy rhetoric. 
When  Senator Puplick  was speaking, as he did for some time, on the history of the human spirit in trying to secure human rights, he mentioned in particular the experience of the European community after the Second World War as something which appealed to him in its fruition in the European covenant. But, of course, that very example to which he pointed does contain effective remedies, in that a complainant can go to a court, can go to a commission, and get a judgment against his government, against his nation state. Lord Hailsham, coming from a different common law tradition distinct from the civil law tradition of those whom  Senator Puplick  quoted earlier, stated, according to  Senator Puplick,  that there is a need for any statement concerning human rights to include what is to happen when there is a conflict between the rights of the community in general and the rights of the individual. This Bill does not say what is to happen by way of resolution of that conflict. It simply sends it to the proposed Commission for comment which will find its way into a report to the Minister and thence to the Parliament. There is no attempt to carry out the difficult task of deciding which right ought to prevail. 
This point is very important because  Senator Puplick  and  Senator Missen  too, I think were at pains to emphasise that we want to talk about rights which inhere in the individual despite the will of the majority for the time being. Unless we have a legally enforceable right, we will have merely a privilege existing at the whim during the concurrence of the majority for the time being. It is not democracy to have such a situation. Democracy obviously does not exist simply where the majority for the time being makes the law. That can be a very simple formula for tyranny. It exists where the rights of minorities to dissent by way of verbal expression and even by way of practice, as long as it is nonviolent, are ensured. In this Bill we have no notion of right in that strong and necessary sense. The international Covenant on which the Government relies so much for so-called inspiration requires this Government to provide effective remedies. In article 2, clause 2- and this is perhaps why it has not been ratified- it requires the Government to adopt such legislative or other measures as may be necessary to give effect to the rights recognised in the Covenant. 
It is of no use the Government's saying 'we cannot affect matters within State jurisdiction' or we are not going to go so far as to give a judiciary enforceable right'. The Government is required to give effect to the rights recognised. It goes on to say that persons are to have an effective remedy. The possibilities of judicial remedies ought to be developed. The competent authorities shall enforce such remedies when granted. Here a confusion, I must say, entered the remarks of both  Senator Missen  and  Senator Puplick  because, in saying that a judicially enforceable Bill of rights is perhaps not the immediate answer to Australia's situation, I agree only in a sense of that expression, namely, that the judges should not be given as their basic raw material a Bill of rights which is drafted so widely, so ambiguously, as to allow them the freedom of interpretation which was the concern of both  Senator Missen  and  Senator Puplick. 
No. That is quite different from the proposition I am putting that one needs a judicial Bill of rights or list of human rights in the sense that, once they are denned with as great a precision as is possible by the elected representatives, an independent and impartial tribunal, a judiciary, ought to be given the power to enforce them. What this Government has failed to do is to go through the hard exercise of developing a list of human rights appropriate to the Australian situation, detailed as unambiguously as possible, and then to say to the judiciary: 'We have done our part as elected representatives in identifying the rights necessary for Australians in a democratic society; you develop the remedies and apply them, whether by way of injunction, direction, damages or whatever'. Therefore, I would say that, given that understanding, perhaps both Senators Missen and Puplick could agree that a judicially enforceable Bill of rights, tightly drafted and perhaps of greater length than the traditionally rhetorical Bills of rights which grace so many modern constitutions, should be judicially enforceable. Remedies need to be provided and disposed of by some sort of impartial arbiter. 
That brings me to a strange anomaly. If the Government is not relying on the external affairs power for the provision of this Bill- I will give the reasons why I do not think it needs to- why has it neglected to do this difficult task of compiling an indigenous list of human rights? There is no need for it, if it is not attempting to reach the States, to rely on an international covenant on human and political rights. If it is affecting only its own laws, or the territory as a geographical entity, I do not see why it cannot do that simply by exercising its power to make the laws concerned. There is no need for it to rely on this vague international covenant. 
Yes. If there had been some attempt to bring the States within the purview of the Commission, I could understand why there has been no attempt to take on the hard constitutional question whether we could have judicially enforceable rights which could be won when at variance or inconsistent with State laws. But since that enterprise is not undertaken by this Bill, I cannot really see any excuse for the Government's not providing effective legal remedies for violations of human rights, even as measured by the international covenant. As I said in my opening remarks, the Bill deliberately disables itself from dealing with that area of greatest and most constant violation of human rights within Australia, namely, within the State jurisdictions. 
I turn now to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Given my previous remarks, I feel free to say that this covenant ought not to have been used as it has been used by the Government. I say that for much the same reasons as  Senator Puplick  outlined, although he did not go far enough. Unfortunately the covenant, despite the fact that it arises out of the holocaust of the Second World War, bears all the marks of compromise and ambiguity which will occur when nations with different forms of government, different social systems, some totalitarian and some democratic, get together and try to formulate rights which can be won by citizens against governments. 
There is nothing in the International Covenant as one reads it which gives any evidence of its being fired in some sort of crucible of conflict between the ruled who experience some oppression against a totalitarian regime or even against a fairly democratic regime which acts in a totalitarian manner from time to time. There is none of that tension and none of that overcoming of a situation of oppression which, for example, characterises the United States Bill of Rights. What one has in the international covenant is an agreement between representatives of government. For that reason one constantly finds certain very destructive riders which will negate the rights which are granted. What the left hand gives, the right hand takes away. 
A clear example of that would simply be Article 1 8 which in clause 1 states: 
Everyone shall have the right to freedom of ought conscience and religion. 
But clause 3 provides: 
Freedom to manifest one's religion or beliefs may be subject only to such limitations as are prescribed by law and are necessary to protect public safety, order, health, or morals or the fundamental rights and freedoms of others. 
That is a very wide provision which is at variance with the human rights that are said to be guaranteed. 
Debate interrupted. 
I support  Senator Evans.  I do so by way of reply to  Senator Missen.  It seems to me that  Senator Missen  is somewhat inconsistent in his approach. Within the amendments he has circulated, he has made it quite clear that the political possibility of confrontation exists on the very scheme which he is putting forward to the Senate. He has indicated that he would wish this chamber to enable the Human Rights Commission to examine Acts or enactments of States or the Northern Territory. He wishes the Commission to inquire and to report to the Minister and thence to the Parliament on State enactments or Acts or activities engaged in by State authorities under State laws which infringe upon human rights. In the very proposals put forward by  Senator Missen  is the possibility of confrontation and the generation of political ill will. 
No more or less certain than in the proposal put forward by  Senator Evans.  It is simply that where the activity, engaged in by a government authority under or by authority of a State law is identified as being in conflict with human rights, is reported to the Minister and that information is laid before the Parliament 1 5 sitting days later- which is all consistent with  Senator Missen  's approach- we say that we should go one step further and ensure that there is a mechanism available whereby rights can be enforced.  Senator Missen  is in favour of rights being enforced in the Commonwealth sphere. We say that to be consistent he ought to enable rights to be enforced when they are found to be in jeopardy because of some action under State law. 
I support  Senator Grimes  in seeking the suspension of Standing Orders. Firstly, I shall deal with  Senator Rae's  remarks.  Mr President,  as you would know, the question is not whether the proposed judicial inquiry might interfere with the course of justice in the events before the courts in Sydney but whether a debate in this chamber would so interfere. That is the only matter to which I will refer in my remarks. The sub judice rule is designed simply to ensure that a matter awaiting a judicial decision should not be the subject of debate in this chamber. The matter awaiting judicial decision in the courts is to do with the innocence or guilt of certain applicants for social security benefits who are alleged to have conspired to obtain those benefits unlawfully. 
There is no question before a court and no matter awaiting a judicial decision as to the legality or otherwise of the obtaining of evidence by the use of certain means, namely, the tapping of telephones or the payment of moneys to an informer. Therefore, my simple submission is that the sub judice rule is not in prospect of being breached by allowing the suspension of Standing Orders to permit  Senator Grimes'  motion for a reference of the matter to a judicial inquiry to be moved.  Mr President,  even if you happen to rule that I am wrong in that submission and that the matter is sub judice, I would nevertheless argue that the matter is of sufficient public importance for you to regard the public importance as overriding considerations of sub judice. That is quite a separate matter. I would indicate not only the gravity of the matters outlined in  Senator Grimes  ' motion as being the proper subject of a judicial inquiry but also the fact that this chamber has received- I am being careful- from the relevant Minister a denial that any such phone tapping took place. I say that merely to indicate that there is a broad question for the Senate to consider. The Senate ought to be able to debate these matters despite the fact that you,  Mr President,  might regard the matter at first glance as sub judice. 
-In my notable speech to the Senate last Thursday on the Human Rights Commission Bill 1979 and the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill 1979-1 will be concluding my speech with only a few short remarks- I pointed out the basis of my grave misgivings concerning the Government's good faith even in presenting this human rights legislation to this Parliament. I remarked that, on the face of it, it appeared to be in harmony with the movement to secure human rights which had swept the world, particularly after the Second World War in reaction to the excesses of the totalitarian regimes in Germany and Japan. I noted that the movement had embraced countries as diverse as the democracies of Western Europe and the totalitarian dictatorships of the proletariat of Eastern Europe and that in all cases the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights had served as a criterion by which government action in this field could be judged. I think that on Thursday I indicated to the Senate why it was unfortunate that the Australian Government had not proceeded beyond that Covenant as the basis for the work of the Human Rights Commission as outlined in this Bill. The reasons for my misgivings can be very quickly indicated by a brief glance at some provisions of that Covenant. Article 1 9 states: 
Everyone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference. 
Everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression; ... to seek, receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in print, in the form of art, or through any other media of his choice. 
Nevertheless, one finds certain riders, certain exceptions, such as the provision that the right may be subject to certain restrictions, but these shall only be such as are provided by law and are necessary for the protection of national security or of public order, public health or morals. The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights being, as it is, the product of consultations between governments and bearing none of the marks of having been generated in a crucible of conflict between the oppressed and a government of totalitarian complexion or the marks which characterise the United States Bill of Rights, for example, which did emerge from people who felt themselves to be oppressed, it is not surprising that the so-called rights said to be secured are, in fact, constantly modified and eaten away by exceptions in favour of government regulation on grounds as vague as public health or morals. Given the fact that the Government is not attempting to reach into the States' sphere, is not attempting to use any special constitutional power, such as the external affairs power, in order to reach into State jurisdictions, which is where most breaches of human rights in Australia occur, it is unfortunate that the Government did not take the opportunity to set itself the very difficult task of defining for its own laws and territories those human rights which ought to be secured without the sort of modifications and reservations which are expressed in the International Covenant which is taken now as the document of criteria of the Human Rights Commission. 
To say that the Bill does not attempt to reach into State jurisdictions is immediately to point to one of its two fundamental weaknesses. The International Covenant, in Article 50, demands of parties to it that the Covenant be applied throughout a federal system. That Article of the Covenant is being ignored in this Bill, which purports to implement the Covenant throughout Australia. I am sure that  Senator Hamer  would be interested in that point. It is a fact, as has been pointed out by honourable senators, that most violations of human rights- perhaps up to 95 per cent, according to documents circulated by  Senator Missen-  occur within State jurisdictions and have to do with freedom of assembly, freedom of speech, the rights that one has when a criminal investigation is carried out by the police, and that type of situation. That is one fundamental weakness of the Bill and the reason why the Opposition is quite unhappy with it. 
The second weakness, as I have pointed out, is that there are no judicially enforceable remedies to secure the rights- -ubi jus, ibi remedium; where there is a right there is a remedy. Chief Justice Holt, who at the age of 23 years ascended to the bench and who was on the bench for 42 years, very strongly opposed the persecution of witches and very strongly tried to modify the effects of those laws which required compulsory attendance in certain churches and denied rights to members of other, even Christian, communions. He was a man who nevertheless was very hard on sedition and treason. In other words, he was not a woolly-minded academic, but a practical working judge who understood the rule of law and what the common law requires, namely, that if a right is to be a right and not merely a privilege enjoyed with the consent and even at the whim of the majority for the time being, then it needs to be judicially enforceable, that there needs to be a remedy given; and that there needs to be a capacity in the courts, once a breach of the right is found to have occurred, to grant an injunction to restrain further breaches of that right, to give directions to enable the person whose right has been infringed to be put as far as possible in the position that he ought to have been in had the right been secure. For example, the human rights legislation which was introduced by the then  Senator Murphy  went further with certain judicial and effective remedies, such as preventing evidence obtained in contravention of a Bill of Rights being effectively used in a court. That is a very salutory way of ensuring that in the course of a criminal investigation the police do not abuse the human rights of those who are involved in the investigation. 
It is because the Bill does not reach into State jurisdiction which is where it needs to reach if it is to do most good for the Australian people and indeed which the Covenant demands of this Government, that we oppose the Bill. Is it because that demand will not be fulfilled that the Covenant has not been ratified? This is a further point which I made last Thursday. The Government has had ample opportunity and has vaguely indicated in a subsidiary amendment which was circulated late last Thursday that, at least on a superficial reading of it, it might be about to ratify the Covenant. Why have we not in this chamber had a token of good faith from the Government before the presentation of this Bill whereby it says to the world community: We will be bound by the International Covenant on Political and Civil Rights'. It is amazing that on the very day that this Bill was introduced,  Senator Wheeldon,  on behalf of an Australian parliamentary committee, was able to criticise the breach of human rights within the Soviet Union which his committee, the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, concluded had occurred. He was able to do that because the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics had gone into the world community at Helsinki and said: 'We will be internationally bound. We see it as a matter of international and legitimate concern that we secure and respect the human rights of persons within the USSR'. This worldwide movement has reached the stage where the totalitarian dictatorship felt obliged to go into the international community and make that concession. Why has the Australian Government not gone into the world community and bound itself internationally to the observance of the human rights which it has given the Commission by this Bill as the criterion for its operation? 
I do not want to traverse all the ground that I dealt with last week. I might perhaps say for completeness of this part of the  Hansard  record that I believe that  Senator Puplick  and  Senator Missen,  in their remarks on the judicial enforceability of a Bill of Rights, were directing their remarks only to the need, with which I agree, to have a list of human rights which is sufficiently precise, comprehensive and free of ambiguity that it amounts to a direction by the elected representatives of the people to the courts that these are the rights to be secured. It ought not to be left to the courts to have the freedom to interpret very widely and vaguely drawn expressions of human rights which might be compatible with some philosophical treatise expressing the yearnings of the human spirit that were dwelt on by  Senator Puplick  for the greater part of his speech. What we need is an Australian government, or an Australian parliament, which is prepared to say that we are the elected representatives of the people and that these are the rights which ought to be secured, as appropriate to the Australian context. A non-elected bench of justices, an impartial body, should then have the task of enforcing them by means of directions, injunctions, disallowing of evidence and so on. If that were the case we would have human rights legislation which would receive the full support of this side of the chamber. 
There are various other matters with which I will deal briefly to enable other honourable senators to speak on this important legislation. I am rather disappointed that the Commission, whose integrity and impartiality is beyond reproach, is to report to the Minister and thence to the Parliament 15 sitting days later. I thought that the elected representatives should be in some way made more responsible for securing any particular human right which is said by the Human Rights Commission to have been violated. It is true that the tabling of the report in the 1 5 sitting days after it is received by the Minister will be a tremendous aid to the securing of the human right concerned but there are people, corporations and institutions which may well find it beneficial to ignore whatever public abuse may be piled on their heads by honourable senators or parliamentarians from the other place as a result of reading that report. Nevertheless, they may be obdurate and give no relief to the person whose human right is said to have been violated, as reported on by the Commission. 
In that situation it might have been thought that if it were framed with enough precision, the finding of the Commission ought to have force to the effect that until the Parliament voted to affirm the violation of the right then, there being an inconsistency between a human right and the action of, for example, some government department, the relevant law upon which the government department was relying ought to have no force or effect whatsoever as against the person whose right is said to have been violated. The Parliament should be forced to make a declaration that the action of the department concerned should continue or should be effective notwithstanding the inconsistency with the human right which has been violated. I may not be expressing that according to a formula which would find ready translation into the Bill. 
Yes. I am saying that the elected representatives, on the tabling of that report, ought to be faced with the difficult decision of either affirming the law or saying that, an inconsistency with a human right having been revealed, it ought not to operate. In other words, the tabling ought to lead to a decision by the elected representatives as to which will prevailthe law which authorises the action or the human right of the person concerned. 
Another matter is the provision for aid to enable people to press their case before the Commission. I could not see that this was covered in the Bill. I recall that in the then  Senator Murphy's  Bill, in the sections dealing with the right to a fair trial, amongst other things it was provided that proper financial support be provided to enable a person to secure his right to a fair trial; in other words, the ability to finance an appearance before the Commission and to establish the breach of a human right is as important as the human right said to have been breached. There is an old saying, 'Guilty until proved wealthy'. That was met in the Labor Party program of 1972 by the establishment of the Australian Legal Aid Organisation. Some such equivalent phrase might be thought to be operative here. All I am saying is that in order to secure the human rights with which this Bill is concerned, it may be necessary to provide financial support for those who wish to appear before the Commission and to fight for the right to be recognised. 
I wish now to refer to clause 15 of the Bill, to which I think  Senator Puplick  drew attention. Under clause 1 5 of the Bill there is the situation that conclusive certificates of the Minister are to have effect. This covers situations where the Commission has reason to believe that a person is capable of furnishing information, producing documents or giving evidence relevant to a matter under examination or inquiry under the Act. Clause 15 (2) states: 
Where the Attorney-General furnishes to the Commission a certificate certifying that the disclosure of information concerning a specified matter ... or the disclosure of the contents of any documents would be contrary to the public interest - 
There is then reference to four reasons-  then ... a member is not entitled to require a person to furnish any information concerning the matter, to answer questions concerning the matter or to produce those documents. 
I will not go into the full details of that clause; there will be an opportunity to do that at the Committee stage. What it does is to rely on an understanding of the law, which was perhaps excusable even at the time of the drafting of this Bill and of the Freedom of Information Bill; namely, an understanding as to the almost sacrosanct character of the conclusive certificate issued by the Executive such as would prevent an independent, impartial body such as a court or commission from inquiring into the reasons which might have led the Executive to decide to withhold a particular document from that court or commission. In the case of Sankey v. Whitlam that particular theory was subject to a large degree of modification. In the freedom of information report recently tabled by the Senate Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, in relation to clauses which were of similar structure in that they simply relied on conclusive certificates of the Executive to prevent documents being obtained under the Freedom of Information Bill, it was decided by the Committee that nevertheless reasons for non-disclosure need to be given to an impartial tribunal so that it can decide on the relative strength of the claims made by the Executive for non-disclosure as against, in that case, the need for a full disclosure in accordance with freedom of information philosophy; in other words, let an independent tribunal judge where the public interest lies. In the case of clause 15, I think one need to go no further than to ask the Government, as representd here by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  not to proceed with this clause until it has come to a publicly announced response to the findings and recommendations of the Senate Committee in relation to freedom of information. 
That is right. The clause is totally drafted on an understanding of the law, we might say prior to 12 months ago. It is a view of the relationship between the Executive and independent tribunals which has been challenged at the highest level of the judiciary of this country, namely, the High Court of Australia, and at the highest political level in this country, namely, a Senate standing committee. Therefore, in the face of these indications of opinion by the other two arms of government, namely, the judiciary and the Parliament, indicating that the balance of power between the Executive and members of the public needs to be altered in favour of the member of the public or at least that an impartial tribunal should make the judgment and not the Executive by way of a conclusive certificate the Government ought to withdraw clause 15 of the Bill. 
The Bill is unsatisfactory for the reasons that I have outlined. It goes no further than a cosmetic fulfilling of the Government's election promise to secure human rights within Australia. The Government is nowhere near as definite in its fulfilment of its international obligations as would be a Labor Government if it were in a position to introduce such legislation into the Parliament. The Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hayden,  has made it abundantly clear, as indeed does the Australian Labor Party's platform adopted recently at its 33rd national conference in Adelaide, that we would produce and introduce into the Australian Parliament a Bill of rights which would be effective and would reach into the whole of each Australian jurisdiction in which rights might be violated. In other words, it would regard, as I think  Senator Puplick  put most eloquently, rights as being an inherent attribute of being fortunate to the resident within the Australian democracy and that State boundaries and State jurisdictions and the accident of birth and the accident of residence should play no part in the question of whether an Australian resident is entitled to vindication in an impartial court of his rights. Both those elements are important to any Australian Labor Party view on the protection of human rights in Australia. Human rights should reach into all State jurisdictions and should be judicially enforceable. Because this Bill fails lamentably to meet those requirements which are the only requirements which will secure human rights in Australia, the Opposition maintains its total opposition to the Bill as introduced. 
I support the amendment moved by  Senator Missen  because I believe the words are not as strong as  Senator Hamer  indicated in his remarks. All that is stated is that approval is given to ratification by the Parliament. It seems to me that those words bear a couple of senses. One is that it is an expression of a hope or desire by this Parliament that approval will be given and notified to the Government and that not hindrance will be put in the way of government ratification by this Parliament. Perhaps more importantly, the second sense is the ambulatory one, that whenever ratification is entered into by the Executive, approval by this Parliament attaches to that act of ratification. I think that that establishes a very important principle that we should try to establish by practice and convention, namely, that when the Australian Government enters into treaty commitments either bilaterally or multilaterally, as is the case here under the aegis of the 
United Nations, this Parliament ought to be involved and a practice ought to grow whereby this Parliament, whilst recognising that entering into treaties in our tradition as opposed to that of the United States is a matter for the Executive, nevertheless ought to give its approval to such ratification. 
I believe that this is the weakness of the circulated amendment of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  to introduce a new clause 3 1 A, which leaves the whole process of ratification and its notification to the Australian public simply within the counsels of the Executive government. I believe the merit of  Senator Missen  's proposal, which is in similar terms to the proposal put forward by the Labor Party and endorsed by the Australian Democrats, is that it may, along with the similar clauses in the Racial Discrimination Act and the proposed similar clause in former  Senator Murphy's  Bill on Human rights, build up a practice whereby this Parliament is involved in the process of telling the international community that we will be bound in some particular manner. 
In conclusion, I simply wish to endorse the remarks of  Senator Puplick  and to express the same fear that I expressed in my second reading speech, that perhaps we have not yet had ratification at this date because the Government is unable or unwilling to go to the international community and say that it will endorse the Covenant as a whole, including Article 50, which requires of this Government that it ensures that these human rights are effectively guaranteed throughout the length and breadth of Australia, in a sense without regard to its specific federal characteristics. In other words, from the point of view of other nation states, we go into the international community as an unitary state guaranteeing that wherever human rights are violated in Australia they will effectively be remedied in accordance with the criteria set up by the Covenant. For those reasons I support the amendment. 
-I rise very briefly simply to record a matter in which I was involved in Sydney this morning and which is of some importance. At 10 o'clock this morning I was at a Press conference at which a petition relating to marihuana law reform was presented to a member of the New South Wales Parliament for presentation to that Parliament this afternoon. The petition had been circulated in New South Wales by a group of volunteers since early February of this year. In the course of that mere 10 months that group had obtained some 160,000 signatures, which I think is an extraordinarily dramatic indication of the support for marihuana law reform by a very wide range of people in that State. 
It was not so much to smoke pot. For example, I signed the petition, yet I do not advocate smoking marihuana; nor, of course, do I smoke it. But the object of the petition is twofold. Firstly, of course, it seeks simply to remove the criminal stigma from many hundreds of thousands of Australians- panicularly young Australians- who find that they are vulnerable and defenceless in the face of a decision by the police to enforce this law against them. It affects only those people who are particularly vulnerable and defenceless. The statistics I compiled in Tasmania in 1976 showed that one-half of those people convicted for marihuana related offences were either labourers or unemployed. If one looks at the number of person who actually engage in the use of marihuana, there is no doubt that one-half of users simply are not unemployed or labourers. Of course, that partly explains why I believe that a party which espouses the cause of those who are vulnerable to the use of legalised force in the community ought to be involved in measures for law reform in this area. 
It is a fact that many young Australians have their careers blighted, have years of training undone, and have the acquisition of skill negated by a conviction which may have the effect of either requiring their suspension from the work in which they are involved or inhibiting a potential employer from taking them on. For that reason alone one should support moves which seek the removal of criminal penalties from this area of recreational drug use. 
But secondly, and more importantly, the petition advocates that a cannabis control board be established in order that the Government may authorise the distribution of this drug. This would have the effect of smashing the criminal rackets which  Mr Justice  Woodward has revealed exist. All that the present law does is to ensure that hundreds of thousands of Australians are forced into a semi-criminal sub-culture to conduct their furtive dealings, within which they are vulnerable to those unscrupulous traders who have an interest in moving them onto the consumption of harder drugs to the traders' great profit. It is a fact, as I have said, that this law ensures that a ready amount of funds continues to flow to those unscrupulous traders, who will then use those moneys for more nefarious and damaging activities in the community. I believe that for those two reasons this type of petition ought to be supported. They explain the widespread support it received in the community. 
Thirdly, I believe that the petition received support because there is a widespread feeling in society that, while there is a certain hypocrisy in society, while the brewery barons and the tobacco tycoons are showered with honours and society turns against users of marihuana with this repressive legislation, there will be no widespread community support for a proper drug abuse education program. In other words, when there is a feeling of unfairness among hundreds and thousands of Australians whereby they see on the one hand, society authorising, legalising and making big money by way of excise and normal company and income taxation out of the circulation of authorised drugs, such as tobacco, alcohol and analgesics, and, on the other, repressive legislation which characterises the attack on marihuana users and which  Mr Justice  Woodward recommended ought to be strengthened in its penalties, it is no wonder that there is no widespread community support for what ought to be the situation, namely, an evenhanded attack on drug abuse, of whatever character, which is occurring throughout the Australian community. There is no doubt that, as  Senator Baume  's committee reported, we do live in a drug ridden society. 
It is not my intention to go over those arguments. What I think is important to note is simply that, despite the alienation of marihuana users from the police and court authorities, despite their disillusionment with the fact that Parliament has not acted to relieve them of a criminal status which they do not deserve because, in all other respects, they are honest, decent, generally hard-working citizens, marihuana users, who must number many thousands of the 160,000 people who signed the petition, have said to the New South Wales Parliament, and I believe it could be said by marihuana users in other State jurisdictions to their parliamentarians: 'We will give one last chance for nonviolent social change to work '. 
I believe the significance of this petition lies in the fact that it is signed by probably the most widespread grass roots movement for nonviolent social change since the peace marches of the late 1960s and early 1970s. I believe that the petition is saying to the parliamentarians concerned: 'We are utilising this ancient democratic privilege of presenting a petition to the Parliament, and we are doing so in our hundreds of thousands, because we want social change to occur through the normal political processes. Despite the fact that we have been harrassed by the law year after year, despite the fact that our careers have been put in jeopardy, we will not do anything more drastic at this stage than to indicate to the Parliament the widespread support for social reform in this area'. For that reason, it was very disappointing that the Australian Broadcasting Commission was the only section of the media represented at the launching, although, I believe, all sections of the media had been contacted by the marihuana petition organisation leaders. 
It was the culmination of the gathering of signatures for a petition which was presented to the New South Wales Parliament this afternoon. It seems to me to be a cause of regret that the media did not perceive in this petition a very democratic and a very widely supported mechanism for achieving social change. I believe that the media were remiss in not being present in order to report to the New South Wales and the Australian public about this very important event. I pay tribute to the three principal organisers of the Marihuana Petition Organisation- Neil Hutchinson, Burke Rhys and Tony Kew- who over the last year have carried a tremendous burden of organisation, to the detriment of their careers and their health, and certainly to the detriment of their general wellbeing. I believe that they have acted extremely responsibly and in a way which perhaps gives the lie to those who think that all marihuana users are apathetic moral destitutes. These people, seeing a social problem, did not merely whine about it or resort to some sort of cop-out from society. They utilised democratic forms in order to bring their case for reform before the New South Wales Parliament. I hope that the parliamentarians involved will take note not only of the substance of the petition but also of the tremendous number of signatures- some 160,000 were gained in about 10 months in New South Wales alone- and respond in a democratic fashion which is tolerant and will demonstrate to the petitioners that we have a robust, tolerant society which can contain within it minority groups pursuing beliefs and practices such as alternative drug use, as long as they do not involve violence to others. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I preface it by reminding the Minister that the Australian Government recently delivered a protest note to the Czech Government concerning the imprisonment of Czech dissidents. Has the Minister noted a growing volume of reports of a new repression of political dissent in the People's Republic of China such that, for example, the free expression of criticism of party leadership via the so-called Democracy Wall is fraught with danger? There is also some evidence of show trials being conducted. Has any protest, at whatever level of diplomatic intensity, been delivered to the Chinese Government concerning the 15-year gaol sentence imposed in October on Wen Jen Sheng, the editor of the Peking magazine  Explorations  and an agitator for the right to criticise the program and policies of the leadership of the Chinese Government? If not, will such a protest be delivered? Further, as much of the political structure and activity within the People's Republic of China is obscure, can the Minister arrange a comprehensive seminar for honourable senators to enable us to obtain an understanding of that nation which is so important to our political and trading future? 
-On behalf of the Opposition, I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to exclude all those provisions relating to student fees and organisations'. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Tate's  amendment) be left out. 
-When entering the chamber this morning for the day's business I picked up the Order of Business paper which is issued as a guide to honourable senators and I looked in vain for mention of the Human Rights Commission Bill 1979, which had occupied so much of the time of this Senate yesterday. One would have expected that such an important Bill would be before the Senate today. In fact, one finds that it is relegated to No. 22 or No. 23 on the Notice Paper. 
The Bill is about the destruction of human rights and that is the point I find so amazing. Rather than our debating the human rights which, even though in an indeterminant or unsatisfactory manner, the Human Rights Commission Bill 1979 in some measure seeks to protect, we find ourselves debating a partisan, paternalistic, authoritarian and dictatorial piece of legislation which denies to adult Australians- do not forget that on the whole students are 1 8 years of age or older- the right to associate and affiliate with a particular national body of students. If I were making that sort of remark on my own behalf or on behalf of the students at the Australian National University or at the Canberra College of Advanced Education, I guess it would cut no ice with honourable senators opposite and would be regarded as just the outpourings of somebody who was so constantly in the company of students in the course of his career prior to entering this place that he is unable to do anything but be their mouthpiece. 
But against whom is the Government arrayed in this matter? It is not arrayed merely against the student associations on the various campuses- associations democratically elected, associations not captured by the Australian Liberal Students Federation, to which I will come in a moment and which is behind this legislation. What the Government is arrayed against is the Council of the Australian National University. I doubt that one could name a more distinguished panel of directors of any Australian institute. Certainly, the Council is not a radical group promoting some sort of factional cause or factional point of view. It is a group whose sole interest is to protect the integrity of that great national educational institution. That Council of distinguished Australians has stated publicly and has demonstrated by the subordinate legislation it passed- of course, it was not authenticated by the Government as it ought to have been- that it has gone as far as it can consistent with its integrity and the integrity of that educational institution as a whole. Members of that Council include members of this Parliament- some four of them. There are a dozen members appointed by the Governor-General, as well as various heads of the institutes and schools within the University and members appointed by the Council itself. I note that one current member is  Sir William  Vines. 
Those persons have pleaded with the Government not to go ahead with the legislation. On 2 February of this year- admittedly an earlier draft of this Bill was in prospect then, but that does not affect the Council's general declarations- the Council made several resolutions, including the following: It declared that the Council should retain the right to determine from time to time what part of the general service fee may be used by student organisations for payments to national bodies representing students at tertiary educational institutions. It declared that, therefore, it should strongly oppose amendment of the principal Australian National University Act prohibiting such payment. As further evidence I could go on to quote the illustrious Chancellor of that University,  Sir John  Crawford. I could also quote from the annual report of the University which was laid on the table of this House only, I think, on Tuesday. The Vice-Chancellor, in his report to Parliament, states that the oversight of student organisations is a matter which is properly the responsibility of Council and that this is well in hand. I could leave the defence of the Council, its integrity and its actions, to be dealt with by  Senator Rae,  who honourable senators will have noticed vehemently interjected and contradicted  Senator Puplick  's outline of the activity and the interpretations of that activity of the Council in dealing with the very question of concern, legitimate concern, about conscientious objection against compulsory membership of the student  association. That has been provided for in a very practical manner by the University Council as has also, I believe, the question of obtaining a degree despite the fact that a student had not joined or paid fees to the student association. I will leave that aspect for  Senator Rae  to deal with because he is a distinguished member of the University Council. 
One might think that that was sufficient to give cause to honourable senators opposite, that they might realise that they are not dealing here with some group of radical students but are dealing with a most distinguished body of Australians who feel that this legislation threatens the integrity of the educational institution. And of course it does. This Bill freezes certain student antagonisms and factions which were developing in the early and mid-1970s. It disables the university community in the months and years to come from making those adjustments in the relationship between the campus bodies and the national bodies on the sort of claims that students want pressed by their national or local associations of students. It creates an iceberg at the student association level rather than a fluid situation which can respond to political and social needs as perceived by the students themselves. My great objection to the legislation is that it prevents the student associations from growing and being conducted in a way which is responsive to the wishes of the students themselves. These wishes can and ought to be democratically ascertained. On campus after campus these wishes have been democratically ascertained. 
This is the aspect on which  Senator Puplick  was so contradictory. He made the usual Liberal diatribe against the Australian Union of Students in which he said it was moribund and decaying. For the purposes of my present argument I will not deny that. But if it is moribund and decaying it is because of disaffiliations by student bodies throughout Australia at democratically-conducted referenda and voting. Surely the way to affect the future and the policies of a national body of students like the AUS is by ensuring that the bodies of students at the various affiliated campuses have a democratic means of either remaining affiliated or removing themselves from the aegis of the AUS. That is the way to tackle the problem of a national body of students. The logic admitted by  Senator Puplick  in his remarks is that democratic elections and democratic referenda on affiliation in campuses throughout Australia ought to be the way of determining whether students are members of and pay a fee to the AUS. It should not be done by national parliamentary legislation aiding and abetting a faction of students in their particular political struggle. 
This legislation enables the Government to pacify a small group of student activists who have wormed their way into ministerial offices and into the Young Liberal Movement. From that privileged position with the ear of the government- as I say in the very corridors of ministerial power- they have required the Government to introduce into the national Parliament a piece of legislation to help them in their cause. In relation to the Australian National University campus I ask: Why has it proved impossible for the Australian Liberal Students Federation to go to that campus and get the 380 signatures required- a mere 10 per cent of the student population- to enable a referendum to be held as to whether the ANU students ought to be affiliated with the AUS? Surely that is the democratic means of achieving the desired end that the ANU students, as a body, ought not to be affiliated with the AUS. Surely that is the means to approach the matter if one believes in democracy at the university campus level. Having been defeated at the ANU campus level, the Australian Liberal Students Federation used the influence that it has through its advantageous position to require the Government and this Parliament to pass an Act to achieve its end. 
Honourable senators may say that I  am  engaging in something of a fantasy, but I have proof positive of my contention in my hand at this very moment. It is an invitation from the Australian Liberal Students Federation requesting the pleasure of the company of my research assistant at the ANU Amendment Bill party to be held at 166 Dexter Street, Cook, Australian Capital Territory, commencing at 8 p.m. on Monday, 19 November 1979. The dress is to be casual. Beer, wine and savouries will be served. The organisers are very confident that this party will go ahead. They know the Government is guaranteed the numbers for its passage. In fact, if we do not pass the Bill tonight the Government has said to the Federation that it will bring back the Senate especially on Monday to make sure the Federation at least can go ahead with its party on Monday night with the knowledge that the Senate has passed this legislation. 
That may be an extreme interpretation of the Senate program over the next few sitting days. I notice that the RSVP mentions telephone number 514657 and the address 166 Dexter Street, Cook. I thought it would be advantageous to try to ascertain whose address that is. Honourable senators may find it not surprising that the 
Canberra telephone directory records against that phone number the name of  Mr M.  Yabsley.  Mr Michael  Yabsley is, of course, very well identified with the Australian Liberal Students Federation. He is a man who never raised conscientious objection to joining the AUS or a student association while at the ANU. That has not prevented him from threatening the association with legal action for the last two or three years. Of course, he has never actually brought that to the boil. There has just been a constant harassment of that organisation. 
The point I have been making is actually very important. I have revealed the lobby which lies behind this piece of legislation. This is not an attempt by government to secure rights in some high-minded way.  Senator Puplick  drew attention to the fact that that cannot be so. The legislation retains the compulsory levy of a general services fee for the association of students on the ANU campus. So this is not a matter of great principle. It is not attacked by the student association on the campus itself. Let us not pretend that we are dealing with some great democratic principle. The matter is not attacked on the campus itself. We are dealing in this legislation with nothing other than an attempt by legislative dictate to weaken and destroy the AUS rather than allow student campuses throughout Australia to vote on the matter. 
In referring to the so-called concessions which have been made by the Government since the earliest draft  Senator Puplick  made the aim to destroy the AUS even more clear. This legislation, by way of concession, allows money to be forwarded to national student bodies which encourage sporting or other recreational activities or promote the interests of students in some particular educational, social, or cultural field or promote the interests of postgraduate students. A series of sub-sections allows the passage of money compulsorily gathered to go to those national organisations. 
It is made very clear what is left out of the subsections. It is a student body which attempts to advance in a general way the interests of students within tertiary education institutions in Australia. I refer, for example, to the marshalling of cases for presentation to the Government on the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowances or, as we recently experienced in this place, the marshalling of an excellent submission on the overseas student tuition levy. These are general matters rather than particular. It is against that sort of political activity on behalf of students at tertiary education institutions that this Bill is directed. This Government is not content to let the democratic forces on campuses work. It wants to aid and abet, to lend the force of this national Parliament to a faction of student politics within Australia. 
I propose to conclude my remarks because I realise that my chances of persuading any honourable senator of the Government parties to oppose this Bill are very slight. It is a cause of genuine regret to me that we are confronted with a government which, by its presentation of this legislation, has diminished its stature and shown subservience to those students who have the ear of some Liberal politicians. I note that  Senator Carrick  has entered the Senate chamber for this debate. I must say that the normal moderation which characterises his liberal approach- such as that which leads him to be the target of vicious attacks by the right wing of his own New South Wales branch of the Liberal Party- has for some reason been modified, suspended or rendered inoperable, by the constant pressure from a group of students which is largely associated with the Australian Liberal Student Federation. I regret that the Minister and the Government have come before this Parliament with this draconian legislation to aid a faction fight within student politics. In this respect, I regret to say that this Bill is a disgrace to the national Parliament and to good government and ought to be rejected. 

 Mr Deputy President, I propose to move an amendment to the second reading motions in respect of both Bills. I seek your guidance as to whether, since this is a cognate debate, I should make the Senate aware of both amendments at the same time. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- The amendments should be moved individually. 
In respect of the Australian National University Amendment Bill 1979 I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to exclude all those provisions relating to student fees and organisations '. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, is one of a series of questions on the Youth Transitional Training Scheme. In answer to my last question on this matter  Senator Carrick  referred me to the about to be tabled findings of the Australian Education Council. I have now had an opportunity to read those findings. Does the Minister recall a recommendation that there needed to be a rationalisation of existing benefit schemes so as to ensure that there were no disincentives to participation in education and training? Does this recommendation of the Council, endorsed by  Senator Carrick,  mean that any Commonwealth benefit paid to a youth undertaking transitional training shall not be less than the unemployment benefit available to potential trainees, lest many of our under 19-year-olds, may be forced by financial pressure to choose unemployment without training rather than unemployment with training? 
I rise very briefly to support this proposed new clause 9(1) moved by  Senator Missen.  I think it goes a little further than  Senator Evans  conceded, although not so far as to make any finding by the Commission in relation to State laws such as would render a State law that is inconsistent with a human right inoperative. It does go so far as to not only permit the Commission to examine any State law or enactment in a general way but also to look at a particular instance where it is said that the State Act or some activity authorised by State law does violate a human right as judged by the criteria set out by the Human Rights Commission Bill. It is in this particular area, where the Commission is authorised to inquire into any Act or practice that may be inconsistent with a human right, that I think this particular amendment suggested by  Senator Missen  can do some good. This particular amendment ought to be supported by honourable senators. It goes a fair distance towards enabling this Federal Commission to look at that vast area where human rights violations may occur within Australia, namely within State jurisdiction and under State law. It also deserves support because it continues to amend the Bill in a way which is only in harmony with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which the Bill is said to be attempting to bring into some operation within Australian law. 
As has been pointed out time and time again, if Australia is to go into the international community and say that as a nation state it will try to ensure that all the rights outlined in the Covenant are recognised throughout Australia, it has an obligation under Article 50 of the Covenant to ensure that as far as possible recognition of those rights goes beyond any barriers arising from our federal system. Insofar as this particular amendment is in accordance with the total spirit of the intention of the Covenant, particularly Article 50, I commend it to the Committee. 
-Very briefly, I support the amendment proposed by  Senator Evans,  namely, that clause 10 (4) (f) be deleted. I do so simply because I find the substitution proposed by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  very difficult to comprehend. The Attorney's amendment provides that the matter ought not to be proceeded with by the Commission if the subject matter of the complaint is not of sufficient concern to the complainant. To be quite frank, it is difficult to conceive of somebody going to the trouble of mounting a case before the Commission, going through all the difficulty, the expense and certainly the consuming of time to bring before the Commission's notice an alleged violation of human rights, if it were not of sufficient concern to the complainant. It seems to me that these are very empty words which are so vague as to be meaningless. Perhaps that is the intention of the Attorney; perhaps his amendment is a compromise which he knows does not have any substance or meaning. 
The real point is that there are sufficient other criteria present in clause 10 (4) to enable the Commission not to have its time wasted by matters which are frivolous, vexatious or not made in good faith or where the subject matter of the complaint is merely trivial. In that case, I cannot see that this added criterion is needed in order to ensure that the Commission is not swamped with too many cases for it to make sensible reports. After all, matters of standing are designed largely to enable a court, as far as possible, to deal with cases of some importance rather than to be subjected to every person's whim or trivial complaint. 
My further objection to the suggested substitution of words by the Attorney is that surely the question is not whether the subject matter of the complaint is or is not of sufficient concern to the complainant; the question is whether the matter is of sufficient concern to the person whose right is alleged to have been violated. It may well be that the complainant and the person whose right is said to be violated are not one and the same person. It may well be that the Commission could form the judgment that the subject matter of the complaint is not of sufficient concern to the complainant. But it may well be of very real and vital concern to the person whose right is said to be violated by the act or practice complained of. In that case I would say that this particular criterion should be struck out of the Bill because it may lead to a situation where somebody who does not have the fortitude or the strength or who cannot afford to take the risk of being the complainant when his or her right has been violated relies on some other person. The fact that that other person cannot demonstrate a sufficient concern should not disable the Commission from dealing with the complaint, which may very well vitally affect the human right of the person whose right is said to be violated. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and it is on a new topic. The Minister will be aware of the fact that several years have elapsed since a review was carried out of the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 1971. In view of the many requests for Government action to update entitlements including the submission from the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations earlier this year, I ask: Can the Senate expect an indication of any Government review of benefits payable under this Act before we rise this week? 
I could not let this opportunity pass without answering some of the points raised by  Senator Young.  My first question to him is whether, accepting for the moment the good faith of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, it had available to it the report to the United States  President  resulting from the Harrisburg incident. I think that honourable senators will find that the answer to that is no. It was definitely reported to the United States  President,  after very exhaustive surveys of the incident at Three-Mile Island, that there had been severe failures in construction methods and in management techniques in relation to the operation of that nuclear facility. In fact, there has never been a more scathing indictment of the failure of engineering on the one hand and management techniques on the other than there was on this occasion. We are told that during the course of the accident personnel within the control room of the facility had no idea what was going on, except that 100 red lights were flashing at the one time. They could not comprehend the gravity of the disaster. 
I ask  Senator Young  whether he agrees that if the nuclear industry is to go ahead it must be on the basis of far better engineering and far better systems of management. Surely he would agree with that. I realise I am straying by debating this matter with  Senator Young,  but he has raised and presented to the Australian public on the radio broadcasting night a report which is gravely deficient in that the most exhaustive examination of a nuclear accident to have taken place since electricity generation by nuclear means was invented contradicts much of the easy nonchalance which he displayed in his few remarks. 
A further and perhaps more pertinent matter regarding the manner of  Senator Young's  presentation was his use of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to bolster his own political view. The Australian Atomic Energy Commission has a combination of functions to perform. It is concerned with research and entrepreneurial effort. It also has a concern for safeguards. The contention of the Australian Labor Party is that it is asking too much of the one institution to require it to combine research and the production of isotopes, and their sale on the world market and also to ask it to be concerned with the development of adequate safeguards criteria. The Australian Labor Party maintains that the research effort in atomic energy in Australia ought to be hived off and separated from the entrepreneurial effort and, of course, that safeguards ought to be in the hands of a completly independent and impartial body. I am afraid that to quote as authoritative a body which combines such contradictory functions does not carry enough weight to convince those who are genuinely concerned with finding answers to the way in which we can provide enough energy for the world in future given the fact that our liquid petroleum supplies are running out. 
Do not let it be suggested in this chamber that the Australian Labor Party is not interested in finding solutions to the energy problem. One well knows that the huge development off the northwest coast of Western Australia would not be going ahead if it were not for the bipartisan support of the policies which, against a lot of opinion in Australia, will allow the export of some 53 per cent of the known gas reserves from that area in order to allow development to go ahead. There is a willingness on this side of the chamber to come up with solutions to the energy crisis, but we are not going to be stampeded into endorsing methods, particularly the production of electrical energy, which do not pay sufficient attention to the needs for safeguards not only in the operation of the reactors but also when it comes to the disposal of the waste products and the circulation of raw materials throughout the world. 
Finally, as to the actual scientific status of the remarks that  Senator Young  bestowed upon us concerning an important accident, all he was able to say and all the Atomic Energy Commission said- on which he built so much of his argument- was that the Commission could say with reasonable certainty that it knew the cause of a particular accident which by some has been ascribed to a serious breakdown. To say that one has come to a conclusion with reasonable certainty is not to come to a scientific conclusion.  Senator Young  has not presented this chamber nor the listening public with scientific conclusions. He has presented statements from a body which has within it contradictory functions. He has failed to bring before the Senate in this so-called balanced view the very important findings of the United States commission of inquiry into the Harrisburg incident which, in its report to the  President,  found that there were grave failures both in the engineering and management techniques applying to the operation of nuclear reactors. 
-Just for the sake of the record of the proceedings in this chamber,  Senator Baume  has rewritten history. He did not come over to consult  Senator Evans  during the course of  Senator Missen  's speech. He came over while I was on my feet. I just want to make that very clear. 
Motion (by  Senator Webster)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I rise very briefly to express my grave concern at the contempt shown for this chamber in this ministerial statement on the reports of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. We have waited 12 months for a response. As the months went by we thought that perhaps earnest consideration was being given to the report, that perhaps it was not being accepted in every detail that perhaps it would not be fully implemented or that perhaps a compromise was being worked out. When one finds, 12 months after the tabling of the report, a response from the Government one has to peruse it briefly in the short time available. Of course, it was thrown on my desk in the midst of a whole lot of other papers an hour or so before I was due to speak. The response reeks with the arrogance of the Executive. It shows a complete contempt for the Parliament and certainly insults the bipartisan committee of six honourable senators of this chamber, drawn from every Party, who came to this conclusion as a practical measure to ensure that no legislation escapes the scrutiny of this chamber and of the House of Representatives in relation to these human rights. 
No, but it is part of the pattern spoken of by  Senator Puplick. 
This was part of the pattern hinted at by  Senator Puplick  in his question yesterday. He pointed out that the Executive was about to send troops overseas without parliamentary debate. With that sort of contempt for human rights, including the right to life of our young Australians, it is not surprising that we have this sort of response from the Government to a parliamentary report. 
What is so insulting about this report is that whoever put together the form of words in it has not really understood the report. The people concerned have misrepresented the conclusions of the Committee. They have certainly misdescribed the consequences which would flow from its implementation. For example, paragraph 10 of the ministerial response contains words such as 'restrictions', cumbersome' and 'frustrate'- all the sorts of words which convey an impression to the reader about the proposals put forward by this Committee, not a committee of academics or people who do not understand the machinery of government, but a committee of six members of this chamber. 
The recommendations of the Committee show that we were particularly concerned that nothing this Committee did would frustrate the Government program. In those instances where the Government has such an urgent piece of legislation that it needs to force through a matter within four days of introduction we say that the legislation should go ahead. There is no attempt by this proposal to halt the progress of legislation. If the Bill becomes an Act, because the Government decides that the matter ought to be proceeded with in a period shorter than four days, then the Committee retains its right to report to the Parliament on any discrepancy it finds between a human right and the actual operation of the Bill. There is no way in which the operation of this joint committee could frustrate the passage of legislation through either chamber according to a timetable decided on by the Government. 
The Committee's recommendation offers a supplement to every member and senator in his or her perusal and consideration of the legislation. We are inundated with pieces of paper. 
We are given memorandums from the parliamentary research staff. We are given copies of second reading speeches from Ministers. We have all these aids. As an additional aid the joint committee would provide to each parliamentarian for his or her consideration a commentary on the Bill linking the operative provisions of the Bill to such questions as whether the Bill significantly alters or interferes with personal liberties and rights, delegates powers which ought not to be delegated or in some way delegates power without giving sufficient consideration to ongoing parliamentary scrutiny. There is no attempt by the Committee to weigh up the balance between the Bill and the delegation to be undertaken. We leave that to the parliamentarian concerned. This is merely a service to alert parliamentarians to the possibility of conflict. 
It is net academic nonsense. 
I will speak to the Chair,  Mr President.  You will be well aware,  Mr President,  that there are occasions - 
There are occasions- I recall reading about one before I entered this chamber- when, without any intention to do so and given the nature of a government's program, a Bill is introduced into one chamber of the Parliament, proceeds to the other and becomes law without members or senators being alerted to the fact that there may be a serious possible infringement of a human right, personal liberty or personal right in the operation of the law. I refer, of course, to the Atomic Energy Amendment Act. I believe  Senator Missen  was the only member of this Parliament to raise the possibility that some sections of that Act as used to regulate the exploitation of the Ranger uranium deposit were in contradiction to the sons of principles which should govern the peaceful exploitation of those resources for the development of energy concerns rather than, as at the time when the legislation was originally framed, for the provision of nuclear weapons materials for our allies, such as when Rum Jungle was the deposit being exploited. That is the sort of instance where legislation comes into a chamber and the focus is on an element of that legislation- in that case the development of uranium deposits- and clauses to do with human rights and their infringement get lost perhaps in general argument on matters of more public concern. 
All the Committee is saying is that it is precisely in instances like that that a joint committee can help and aid parliamentarians in coming to a decision as to their position on the Bill. We say that a joint committee should do the job to enable flexibility, speed and the least possible frustration of the Government's program, which  Senator Lewis  desires. Whichever chamber the matter is introduced into, it can be referred to that joint committee and be expeditiously dealt with. As I say, the response by the Attorney in its language of distortion, frustration, cumbersomeness and restriction completely misrepresents the balanced, practical proposals put forward by this Senate Committee. 
The Government's reply amounts to an insult to the effort that was put into the report. I do not say that the report has to be totally accepted by the Government. I object to the language used here which is similar to the language used in the response by the Attorney on the priority of Crown debts matter. For example, the AttorneyGeneral uses language such as, 'the Government is at one with the Committee'. It is not at one with the Committee. It cannot be at one with the sentiment of the proposal and make no move along the road to implement it to any extent whatsoever. We have a complete rejection of any practical implementation of the proposals in the report of the Senate Committee. It makes one wonder, having been nurtured on the belief while outside the chamber and while striving to enter it that the Senate Committees had a constructive role to play, whether one would not be better spending one's time back in the electorate instead of coming to Canberra when Parliament is not sitting and spending days and weeks on parliamentary committees only to have the results of one's efforts completely ignored by an Executive which is showing its arrogant contempt for the whole parliamentary process. If anyone is directing an arrow at the heart of the Westminster system as applied to our Federal Parliament it is the present Executive. For that reason I express, on behalf of the Opposition, and in harmony with many members of the Government parties our complete rejection of this response by the Attorney. 
Motion ( by  Senator Peter  Baume) put: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
I rise to deal with the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 4) 1979, the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 5) 1979, the Loan (Income Equalization Deposits) Amendment Bill 1 979, the Income Tax Laws Amendment Bill 1979, the Income Tax (Rates) Amendment Bill 1979, the Income Tax (Individuals) Bill 1979 and the Income Tax (Companies and Superannuation Funds) Bill 1979. I wish to concentrate on that aspect of the legislative package we are debating cognately which deals with tax avoidance and the Government's latest batch of piecemeal measures to deal with some tax avoidance schemes. This legislation deals with the crippling consequences to our economic and social life of the activities of people who are really, in my view, subversives within our society. These are the tax bludgers in our society; the people who want to take all the benefits of living in a democratic society- a wealth-producing society- but do not want to contribute their fair share to the running of that democratic wealth-producing society which sustains them. 
It is cause for some approbation of the Government that under  Mr Howard  as Treasurer it has continually brought forward to this Parliament over the last 1 8 months to two years measures designed to deal with tax avoidance schemes which are revealed by the workings of the office of the Commissioner of Taxation. Honourable senators on both sides of the chamber will know that I have consistently praised  Mr Howard  in this regard. But I am disappointed that at this stage  Mr Howard  has been unable to come into this Parliament with a radically new section 260, which is the only way in which members of this community will be able to say to the tax avoiders and the tax bludgers: Whatever the legal status of the commercial or other transactions that you enter into, they will be disregarded when it comes to assessing your fair and just contribution to the nation's revenue'. I know it is a complex task, but  Mr Howard  has had two or three years to come up with something more than piecemeal measures. 
What is wrong with the package of measures we are debating cognately tonight is simply that it is a package, that it is piecemeal, and that continues this sporting contest atmosphere. On the one side are the tax avoiders and their coterie of legal and accounting personnel, people whom they can afford to pervert into serving their own selfish ends. On the other side is the community, represented by the Commissioner of Taxation. The contest goes on, to and fro, year after year, with the Commissioner of Taxation always being a year behind. This piecemeal legislation merely creates a situation where, by writing in several lines to remedy one gap that is revealed in the taxation measures: three or four more possibilities are opened up. The tax avoidance game is indeed hydra-headed. No sooner do we cut down one problem than 10 more spring up in its place. 
Despite the time limits, I felt that I should make some comment tonight because on  Nationwide  last week I saw what could only be described as an interview with two of the most despicable specimens I have yet seen interviewed on Australian television- a  Mr Maxwell  Newton and a  Mr Peter  Hutchinson, the former being a tax avoider and the latter being one of those accountants who are perverted into serving the selfish ends of the tax avoiders. Many Australians who are listening to the broadcast of these proceedings will have seen this program. When asked about tax evasion,  Mr Maxwell  Newton said: 
. I think it's a very noble, a very noble thing to do is to not pay tax. In fact I think it 's ones duty not to pay it. 
Further on: 
I think it is most important for all Australians to refuse to pay tax. 
That is an instance of the subversion that I am talking about. This type of person is undermining our democratic society in two ways. The first is by refusing to contribute his fair share to the nation's revenue. A government elected by the people is entitled to carry out programs and to get funding to carry out those programs. It is entitled to have a flow of revenue arising from the income-producing activities of the individuals and companies operating within our economy and our commercial life. These people are denying the sinews and victuals to government, and in that respect they are subversive. 
There is a deeper sense in which they are subversive, and that is in the creation of a feeling of inequity amongst potential taxpayers within the Australian community. Those who pay tax, those who do not have the capacity, the flexibility or the money to pervert the best legal and accounting brains to serve their own selfish ends, are made to feel mugs, to use a good old-fashioned Australian expression. I well recall how as a young child I used to watch my father in the kitchen when the time came to fill out the taxation forms. He would scrupulously, carefully and honestly go through them to see whether he would claim £8 to £10, as it then was, for chemist's expenses for his family. There was a man on the pay-as-you-earn system who had no hopeeven if he desired to, which he did not- of avoiding his proper obligations towards the community through the taxation system. 
But we have a situation now where inexorably the burden of income taxation is moving on to the ordinary wage and salary earner. The report of the Commissioner of Taxation for 1978-79 was laid on the desk of honourable senators only a few days ago. One can read the list of those who have understated their taxable income. When one reads the Tasmanian list, much to my shame one finds that those who have avoided taxation fall into the following classes. As I cast my eyes down just one page I shall read the occupations. They are: Carpenter, builder, carpenter, electrical contractor, electrical contractor, butcher, bus driver, shop proprietor, wood carter, grocer, hotelier, builder, cartage contractor, investor, builder, manager and hotelier. These are people who, because of their independent earning capacity, are not caught within the PA YE scheme and are therefore not subjected to the ordinary ways in which the Commissioner of Taxation ensures that he collects tax from the average wage and salary earner- the mug who cannot, because of some independent wealth creating situtation from which he earns his income, invest in these tax avoidance schemes which are proffered around the community. When I say that they are proffered around the community, in my view there is no doubt that we have a type of subversive literature which is an advertising of these schemes and which to my mind ought to be condemned as strongly as the schemes themselves. 
Two reasons are commonly put forward by way of excuse by tax avoiders. The first is that tax rates are too high and that they feel that they should not contribute to the Treasury while tax rates are as high as they are. But what a circular argument that is. It is clear that we have a Treasury which is losing hundreds of millions of dollars per year because of tax avoidance. We have a copy of the report of the Commissioner of Taxation. In it he states that he has assessed that the community this year is losing something like $422m. Out of every $10 owing to the Commissioner of Taxation, $4 can be ascribed to tax avoidance schemes. Where there is that sort of situation and where there is the predictabilitybecause this is happening year after year- is it not clear that the tax scales will have been set up, modified and calculated in a way which will enable the Government to get the revenue which it knows it will be losing because of the operation of tax avoidance schemes? The money has to be collected somehow, so obviously the rates are marginally higher than they would need to be if every Australian individual and every Australian company made his fair contribution to the nation's revenue. So these people are taking advantage of a circular argument in a situation which is very much of their own making. 
The second argument put forward is that there is some sort of distinction between tax evasion and tax avoidance. Tax evasion is some sort of clearly illegal activity where one does not state a second source of income. But tax avoidance is said to be perfectly proper because it is legal. The transaction by which one sets up a tax avoidance scheme is itself perfectly legal, and somehow this creates an aura of propriety and it is fair game if one can get away with it. That distinction has never been accepted by the Australian Parliament, and section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, although undermined by the High Court- I will come to that in a moment- clearly says that whilst such transactions are legal they are to have no effect against the revenue, and that the Treasury is entitled, despite the transaction, to gather in funds which should be directed properly to it, where the dominant intention in setting up the commercial or trust transaction, whatever it might be, is to avoid legitimate contributions to revenue. 
The elected representatives of this community have consistently said that tax avoidance is something anti-social and something which should have no effect against the revenue. But what we have had over the last decade or so is a High Court which has aided and abetted the tax avoiders. I know that you will ask me to be careful in saying this,  Mr President,  but the present Chief Justice, from his eminent position has achieved by way of judgment what he was unable to achieve by way of argument as counsel before the Privy Council, namely, a situation in which section 260 of the Act is emasculated. That is all I wish to say on that topic,  Mr President. 
On behalf of  Senator Gietzelt,  and at his request, I give notice that on the next day of sitting he will move: 
That regulations 4, 6, 13, 20 and 35 to 38 inclusive, of the Australian Federal Police Regulations, as contained in Statutory Rules 1979 No. 210, and made under the Australian Federal Police Act 1 979, be disallowed. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I refer to the transitional training scheme, with its range of options and combinations of training, education and employment opportunities. I seek clarification of the statement put down yesterday. Will a youth under 19 years of age undertaking some training under the scheme be paid an amount at least equal to the unemployment benefit he or she would qualify for if simply unemployed and not participating in the scheme? By what title or name might the benefit be known? Will young Australians participating in the scheme, particularly part time, still be entitled to register with their local Commonwealth Employment Service office as seeking employment? 
I regret having to take the time of the Senate for a short moment to rebut a scurrilous attack by  Senator Archer  just before the suspension of the sitting for lunch on the housing policies of the Tasmanian Government. He made two comments. The first was that the Tasmanian Government has the worst housing record in the Commonwealth. There are problems in regard to the housing of elderly persons, one area against another, but overall the Tasmanian Government has a housing commission which is the envy of many other States. The fact that in my area of Devonport one can get a three-bedroom house within a year of making an application and that in some areas of Hobart one can get a home within about 12 months of making an application gives the lie to the sort of political propaganda which was put forward by  Senator Archer  earlier today. He also said that the Tasmanian Government had a policy of not encouraging or even permitting, he implied, the purchase of housing commission homes by tenants. In fact, 15 months ago 3,500 letters were sent out to the tenants of housing commission homes throughout Tasmania asking them whether they would like to purchase their homes. Eight hundred tenants replied affirmatively. 
Negotiations were entered into with the Agricultural Bank acting as the mediator. That bank offers, on a deposit of something like $2,000 or $3,000, tailor-made low interest loans to enable people to buy their homes. Of 100 persons, to date only 46 have been able to take advantage of the policy of the Tasmanian Government to encourage them to obtain homes from the housing commission pool. In Tasmania we have a lower household income than in the south-east mainland, as I have pointed out in this chamber previously. In the housing commission area alone, 5 1 per cent of tenants receive rental rebates. So it is no wonder that the tenants of housing commission homes cannot take advantage of the home purchase policies of the Tasmanian Government. That policy exists and it is scurrilous of  Senator Archer  to spout political propaganda in here rather than to be genuinely concerned with the housing of Australians in decent and comfortable homes. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a first time. 
-The Opposition does not oppose these Bills although we will be moving an amendment to the motion that the Bills be now read a second time to express a certain point of view on the part of the Opposition; that is, that whilst we do not condemn the Customs Tariff Amendment Bills, we take the view that the Government should be condemned for continuing to impose a 2 per cent ad valorem levy on goods entering this country. This 2 per cent levy on imported goods was introduced on 1 July this year. It had the effect of adding to inflationary pressures within the economy because many of the goods coming in are inputs into our industrial and commercial life. One finds it very contradictory to the Government's stated aim of combating inflation that it should undertake to levy an extra 2 per cent on the value of goods imported into Australia. Like so many budgetary measures initiated by this Government, like the horrendous increase in the taxation on petroleum products which has turned every petrol pump in Australia into a sub-branch of the Taxation Commissioner's revenue raising facilities, this decision was taken simply to raise revenue. What the Opposition objects to in this measure is that there is no response to the strong representations of the many organisations throughout our nation and our commercial life- not left wing radical organisations but organisations such as the Confederation of Australian Industry or the Chemical Importers and Exporters Council of Australia Ltd- which submitted to the Government that this 2 per cent import levy is destroying the competitive position of Australian firms not only within Australia but also in trying to secure markets for the export of their goods. 
The thing that worries the Opposition is that this Bill makes two concessions only; concessions which obviously have been given because of the effectiveness of the lobbies which were behind the seeking of these two concessions. They may well be concessions which ought to be granted. But I ask: Why these two, and why only two? This is what one finds disconcerting about the measure presently before the Parliament. It is a response to effective lobbying by two groups only amongst the many who find that this particular levy is crippling their enterprise within the economic situation that we presently have in the country. 
I doubt whether the listening public would have picked up that interjection. There is nothing inconsistent in my remarks. I simply said that the granting of this concession to the importers of equipment for oil exploration is probably well deserved. But I am asking: Why, after the myriad of submissions made to the Government since the introduction of this levy on 1 July, is it the only concession to be made? It shows the effectiveness of that particular lobby. The Confederation of Australian Industry, which made a plea on behalf of all importers, ought to have had its plea listened to. It was not listened to because of the desperate need of this Government to raise revenue by indirect methods. 
It is very clear that this socially regressive policy of the Government, of turning to indirect taxation rather than the progressive tax scales, will bring it undone as it makes these politically advantageous decisions from time to time. Their accumulative impact will destroy much of the commercial life of this country which relies on imports for the industrial process being at a reasonable cost. The Opposition does not want to detain the chamber at any great length on this particular Bill. I move: 
At end of motion, add ', but- 
in respect of the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1979, the Senate is of the opinion that the Government should be condemned for continuing to impose the 2 per cent ad valorem revenue customs duty on most goods imported duty free prior to 1 July 1979 because the duty - 
is inflationary and further erodes the competitiveness of Australian industry, as the commodities subject to the duty are predominantly production inputs; 
ii ) is really a form of indirect taxation; and 
is in conflict with the Government's posturing in bilateral and multilateral trade negotiations; 
in respect of the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 4) 1979, the Senate is of the opinion that a Parliamentary Standing Committee on Tariffs and Excise should be established to examine each change in tariffs and excise following the gazettal of proposals or their being introduced into the Parliament, on the one hand, and before related Bills are introduced into the Parliament, on the other hand; and 
in respect of the Customs Tariff Validation Bill (No. 2) 1979, the Senate is of the opinion that a Parliamentary Standing Committee on Tariffs and Excise should be established to examine each change in tariffs and excise following the gazettal of proposals or their being introduced into the Parliament on the one hand and before related Bills are introduced into the Parliament on the other hand '. 
I move: 
Pages 9 to 1 1, clause IS, sub-clauses (2), (3), (4) and (10), line 40 (Page 9) to line 37 (Page 10) and lines 20 and 21 ( Page 1 1 ), leave out the sub-clauses. 
The Opposition believes that the time has long passed when, by the uncontested decisions of a political officer, namely, the Attorney-General, very important evidence can be withheld from the Human Rights Commission relating to the alleged violation of a human right. Very recently the High Court suggested that that particular almost sacrosanct quality attaching to the Cabinet's decision to withhold evidence needs to be modified. The Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs came to the same conclusion in its report on the Freedom of Information Bill. The effect of the Opposition 's plea tonight is to say to the executive arm of Government: When the highest judicial body in the land and a group of senators come to the same conclusion, that conclusive certificates are at variance with modern ways of conducting the business of government, we would expect this particular amendment of the Opposition to be supported. When a human right is alleged to have been violated, every piece of evidence that is relevant ought to be presented to the Commission, not withheld by the fiat of a political officer such as the Attorney-General. 
The Opposition is of the view that no right is secure without an adequate remedy. The Bill does not provide for any such remedy. We feel that where a person appears before a court or tribunal where that right might be vindicated or somehow made more secure, it is very important that whatever evidence that person can bring forward in support of his case to have the right vindicated ought to be brought forward. The Bill as drafted prevents the divulging of information or the production of a document which a member of the Human Rights Commission has come across in the course of his duties. One can understand that such documentation or evidence ought not be available to the general public, but in cases where a right is sought to be vindicated before some authority or tribunal then we believe that no barriers ought to be put on the evidence which can be brought forward to help to sustain that right. For that reason the Opposition opposes the clause so that the great common-law principle that where there is a right there should be a remedy will be upheld. 
