
 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I rise proudly to make my maiden speech, very conscious of the fact that I am the first Australian Labor Party member to represent the seat of Parramatta for almost 50 years. In fact, 193 1, the year in which I was born, was the year the Labor Party held the seat for the last time. Therefore, I am very proud to have won it back. 
I ask you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to pass on my congratulations to  Mr Speaker  and to the  Chairman  of Committees upon their election to their high offices. I am sure the impartiality which I have witnessed in the last week and the good humour which they have both exhibited will lead to the continuing support for both of them from this side of the House. May I also at the outset offer my thanks to the Distribution Commissioners who exhibited the good sense and understanding to draw the boundaries in the new electorate of Parramatta with some regard and sensitivity to Parramatta 's essential character and historical background and in so doing, of course, making Parramatta a Labor seat. But that is another consideration. 
The settlement of Parramatta began with the birth of the colony in 1788. Truly, Parramatta can call itself 'the cradle city'. It became the first centre of agricultural pursuits in Australia. Notwithstanding this, it did not even have a local branch of the National Country Party of Australia. James Ruse, the first freed convict land owner, grew Australia's first wheat there in 1790. John Macarthur's first work as a breeder of merino sheep also began at Elizabeth Farm which is in the Parramatta district. Australia's oldest building, Elizabeth Farm House, which John Macarthur built for his wife in 1793. still stands, albeit a little haphazardly. It was a monument to crass governmental neglect over the years until my friend the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  in his period as Minister for Urban and Regional Development had sufficient sensitivity to see that funds were made available for its restoration. 
The electorate of Parramatta now fully reflects the historical working class character of the area, built as it was not by the bunyip aristocracy but out of the sweat of the workers' brows. Exhibiting their delight at the recasting of the electorate the constituents of Parramatta, in electing me as their member, registered a heavy four per cent swing back to the Australian Labor Party on the 1975 figures. I am proud to represent people who were more sensitively attuned to the need for a Labor government than perhaps were those in some other areas of Australia. I am sure that in 1980 the rest of Australia will follow Parramatta 's lead in that regard. The people I represent know from hard experience that the only chance they and their families have of getting a real share of the riches of this great country come by having a Labor government. 
I mention some of the conservative knights who have been my predecessors in Parramatta. I start with  Sir Joseph  Cook, the conservative Prime Minister in 1913-14, and  Sir Frederick  Stewart. I remember that name because shortly after he won the seat from Labor in 1 93 1 , just to exhibit his belief in the unemployment problem on which he had been contesting the election in the time of the Scullin Government, he managed to sack my father. That happened a couple of months before I was born. So I find some ironic justice in the fact that I have become the next Labor member in Parramatta. After  Sir Frederick  Stewart came  Sir Howard  Beale,  Sir Garfield  Barwick,  Sir Nigel  Bowen and, latterly, the present honourable member for Dundasdare I say  Sir Phillip  Ruddock- to maintain the traditional lineage in Parramatta. At this point I should like to pay tribute to that honourable member's sincere and diligent work while he was the incumbent in Parramatta. The people of Parramatta recognised that he was a conscientious and hard-working member and returned him to this Parliament on three occasions. They, like me, wish him well in his new seat of Dundas. 
With the advent of the Whitlam Government in 1972 the people of western Sydney saw an improvement in their society. This short Camelot, this golden age, saw the people of the west, deprived by 23 years of continuing conservative government, have their expectations for a real equality of opportunity heightened considerably. The doubling of the education budgets in 1973 and 1974 and the subsequent distribution of the funds made available under those budgets on a real needs basis under the Karmel report saw an amazing revolution in the ordinary state schools- the parochial schools in Parramatta where the bulk of the children go. Those schools saw the sort of things they had never seen before. Libraries, science blocks and other real amenities were provided for them. It is such a pity that a return to conservative government saw the underprivileged schools losing out. Elitism returned with A grade private schools gaining increasing endowments from the Government. Many other benefits accrued because of the election of a Labor government. The 1 8-year-olds were given voting rights for the first time. All they had received from the previous Government was the right to enter in the death lottery when numbers were drawn out of a barrel and young people were sent to Vietnam. A lot of the bloom of Parramatta 's youth was left lying there. 
One of the unique characteristics of this electorate is that 23 per cent of the electors receive a pension or benefit of some kind from the Government. These range from age, invalid and repatriation pensions to handicapped children's allowances and payments to unmarried mothers. All of these people saw a vast improvement in their lifestyles under a sensitive, compassionate Labor Government. I well remember the annual caravan of pensioners from Parramatta to Canberra. Bus loads of them cap in hand to the Treasurer of the day for an increase in their pensions. Most times they did not get one. I am proud that the Labor Government's period in office saw the age pension being tied to 25 per cent of the average weekly earnings. The 94 per cent increase in the age pension in that period saw the elderly people of Australia, the pioneers, having some dignity restored to their lives. 
The Governor-General's Speech is traditionally a document which sets out the aspirations, ideas and programs of the incoming government. No statement of the Fraser Government thus far has been so candid and so disturbing as the Speech the Governor-General read on Tuesday of last week. It clearly establishes that the Fraser Government cannot rise above the level of conservative economic primitivism. The people of Australia have been generous in their support and trust of this Government, but this document exposes the incapacity of this Government in dealing with the great issues of our time, the perplexities of sound economic management and the cancer of unemployment. The GovernorGeneral's Speech contains a few pious platitudes about the unemployed but nothing about government initiatives to reduce the level of unemployment. Indeed, apart from solving  Sir John  Kerr's urgent unemployment problemapparently it could not even solve that- the Fraser Government has shown little or no concern for the unemployed. 
The Government makes great play of the handouts it has provided to the taxpayer in the form of reductions in personal taxation. No one would deny that the Australian electorate considers that it has been too highly taxed and that there was perhaps some case for tax reform. But the scheme the Fraser Government has introduced greatly benefits the highest income earners rather than those on the average wagethe people who really need help. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has often in the past poured scorn on what he termed 'Labor's handout mentality'. But there have been no shortages of handouts under the Liberals. The only difference has been the class and number of recipients. The fistful of $5 notes in the well-known advertisement goes only towards the wealthy sections of the community. The great difference between the Labor Party and the conservative parties rests on the Labor Party's attitude towards the utility of government involvement in the community. The more we care for the deprived, the more we think about the problems confronting Australian manufacturing industry, the more we confront the hardships faced by the rural community, the more we grapple with the major issues concerning the environment the more we realise the need for increased government intervention on behalf of the community. John F. Kennedy, that revered statesman of unquestioned stature, said in an address in 1963: 
The Federal Government is the people, and the Budget is a reflection of the people 's needs. 
In the Labor Government's time in office these words were respected and put into action. Certainly the electorate of Parramatta underwent tremendous improvement as a result of the programs of the Federal Labor Government. The Budget really became a reflection of the people's needs. Millions were provided for the Westmead hospital- a sorely needed amenity in our area. Local government, through the Grants Commission, was given huge increases of money. Public transport and the National Estate also received big grants for the first time. Funds were provided to clean up the Parramatta River, which has been long neglected. Contrast these achievements with our opponents' lack of interest. The Fraser Government has scrapped the Australian Assistance Plan, which in 1975-76 provided $140,000 for worthwhile projects in the 
Parramatta area. The Fraser Government has also abolished the area improvement program, which provided millions of dollars for local government. Educational expenditure has now been reduced so that it does not even cover increased costs due to inflation. 
The Fraser Government has deferred the building of the proposed Commonwealth centre in Parramatta. The Labor Government spent $5m purchasing a site for this project in O'Connell Street in 1974 and $300,000 developing it. Upon its election the Fraser Government refused to proceed with this great project. The complex was to include theatres, an art gallery, youth centres, recreational centres, child care facilities and some retailing space. It was the dream of the former Minister for Urban and Regional Development, the honourable member for Reid, who is now in the chamber. If the Government would only go ahead with this project it would be a tremendous boost to the ailing building industry in Parramatta and a cure for some of our soaring unemployment. As well, some 4,500 public servants could be employed near where they live. This would save them the long trip to Sydney every day, with the resultant overtaxing of the public transport system. My predecessor is on record as saying in his speech on the 1976 Budget: 
I could not responsibly ask for more money to be spent in my electorate. 
I hereby give notice that while I remain the honourable member for Parramatta, and I hope that will be for a very long time, I will continue to scream, yell and shout for more money to be spent in my electorate to equalise the imbalance of the Liberal past and to match the record of the all-too-short Labor Government reign. As a new member of this House, I espouse my utmost faith in Australia's future. What a pity the Government does not share my optimism. It makes great play of asking people to have confidence in their country's future. How can the Government expect business or individuals to invest in the country's future when it, the nation's biggest business, refuses to give the lead? 
The Government's paranoia with the level of the deficit is stifling economic recovery and therefore any chance of a turnaround in the unemployment situation. What evil is associated with a deficit of, say, $2.7 billion in a Budget of, say, $27 billion? What huge business would not be happy with an overdraft level of 10 per cent? The Government is the nation's biggest business but it refuses to invest public funds in the nation's future. Our national assets in the way of natural resources are unlimited to back up such an investment. Economic experts the world over- for example  Mr Wittervien  of the International Monetary Fund, which is not an altogether unreliable authority- are suggesting that national governments must inject public funds into the system to restore economic viability. However, this Government refuses all advice and pursues its primitive and unsuccessful line. 
The reasons the Government advances for its closed-mind commitment to contain inflation as a cure-all for unemployment, no matter what the social cost, do not stand up to examination. Inflation has come down a minimal amount; I will readily agree to that. However, economic growth has not been stimulated, and unemployment continues to grow. The people of Australia cannot afford the price of the Government's economic strategies with growing unemployment and its associated social and human evils. I am cynical enough to believe that the Prime Minister's insistence on continuing his misguided economic theories forms part of a sinister and deliberate plan to put the working class of Australia back where the Establishment wants it- right at the bottom of the pile. 
I, strangely enough, am a former  chairman  of a rather large employers' group. Most of the employers 1 know are decent and compassionate people. I know that a large percentage of them worry about the Government they have supported and the person who leads it. The Prime Minister, the epitome of class conscious conservatives, pursues a line which to honest people is just too transparently obvious. The Government can put enough people out of work with misguided mismangement of the economy and plague the work force with the proposed regressive, oppressive and evil industrial legislation, and the workers will be sufficiently scared to accept anything. The Government can give them reduced real wages. It has already done that. It has taken their weekly wage level back by $ 10 in one year. It can make them work longer hours, give them minimal conditions and break down any welfare benefits that they have achieved over generations of union effort. I instance Medibank, as obviously the Government is about to knock it on the head. They are the Government's aims. I say that the worm will turn. 
As my colleague the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  said, the Prime Minister has made deception a high art form. The workers in my electorate, the real Australians, will not accept i his treatment. They can see through the Government's superficiality. If- 1 repeat 'if*- the 
Government is sincere in its efforts to reduce unemployment levels it will alter its tack and pour resources into the public sector. Billions of dollars have been found to fund reinvestment allowances and for the reduction in the coal export levy to assist big business- for example, Utah Development Co.- already making bloated corporate profits. For humanity's sake I beg the Government to show some humanity towards the unemployed. A couple of nights ago the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson)  spoke disparagingly of the 'long haired layabouts' in his electorate in the dole queues. Shame on him. The unemployed in Parramatta do not fit into this category. They are decent human beings. Many of them are recent school leavers, representative of their generation, the most highly educated group of kids we have turned out in our history. These kids do not want handouts. They do not want synthetic schemes. They want what a rich country like Australia should be able to offer them. They want jobs. The remedy is in the Government's hands- to invest in these kids' futures because they are our greatest resource. The destiny of our country is in their hands. 
In conclusion may I allude briefly to the party which I proudly represent, the Australian Labor Party. A great Australian has recently handed over its leadership. He was pilloried and victimised but is yet unbowed; large in stature, huge in vision. Historians retrospectively will judge Gough Whitlam with greater wisdom and greater mercy than did his contemporaries for the great and sensitive human that he is. The false dawn of a new Australia which Whitlam spawned may yet become a reality under our new leader. The high priest of the Labor movement, that great statesman John Curtin, summed up my hopes for the Australian Labor Party with these words: 
To be pushed back- to meet with rebuffs and adversity is but to share the fate of the great movements of history. Our day will come again- it will come soon. 
-Does the Prime Minister recall that the then Treasurer in his last Budget Speech said: 
The Government is well aware of the activities in recent years of tax planners who, increasingly, are promoting tax avoidance schemes and arrangements throughout the business and professional community. We- 
That is the Government- propose to crack down hard on such practices. 
Does the Prime Minister recall also that in one of the more flamboyant passages in his 1975 election speech he said: 
We will not use the earnings of Australia's families to finance Gold Coast holidays for those who do not want to work. 
Does the Prime Minister stand by these statements? Why did he reappoint the honourable member for Flinders, the man involved in the Lynch affair, as a member of the Ministry? 
-Does the Prime Minister recall telling the House last week that, in clearing  Mr Harragan  of any impropriety in the Australian Bureau of Statistics contract tendering procedures, the Committee of heads of departments had conducted their inquiry on too narrow an ambit? Is it not a fact that the Committee conducted its inquiry on specific terms of reference drafted by the Prime Minister himself? Is it not also a fact that the Committee, in its report, addressed itself to a specific list of questions directed to the Committee by the Prime 
Minister? Will the Prime Minister now table those terms of reference? 
-I rise to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  Before I turn my attention to the amendment, I think that something needs to be said about the outrageous claims made by the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson),  who drew attention to the Opposition's decimated numbers- its 38 members in the House. Let us look at the polling figures. No doubt they are well known in the chamber, but I think they are worth looking at anyhow. The Australian Labor Party polled 42 per cent of the vote and won 38 seats. The National Country Party, whose members want to crow about that Party's great representation in the House, polled 10 per cent of the vote and won 18 seats. Expressing those percentages as numbers of people, 3,800,000 people voted for the Liberal-National Country Party coalition to give it 86 seats; 3, 170,000 people voted for the Labor Party to give it 38 seats. If that does not say a great volume about the voting system under which we operate, I do not know what does. In any case, I am very happy to be a representative of what honourable members opposite might consider to be a minority party but which in my mind happens to be the most honest and compassionate of all the political parties. I am very proud to be a representative of it. 
I turn to the amendment. The unfortunate fact about the Governor-General's Speech is the incompetence and the intransigence of the Fraser Government's thinking on economic matters. The speech writers of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  placed into the mouth of the Governor-General these words: 
My Government is determined to act as a government of the whole and not a government for the majority alone. 
The utter hypocrisy of that claim is astounding, coming from the Party which has constantly imperilled the economic and political interests of this country. How can the man who almost destroyed the system of constitutional government in 1975, the man who so divided this country, claim to govern for the benefit of the whole of the people?  Mr Geoffrey  Fairbairn, a distinguished scholar and a conservative who is known to honourable members opposite, made some interesting comments in a letter he wrote recently to the  Sydney Morning Herald.  He said: 
It is surely time that what has been elegantly described as the armpit of the southern hemisphere ' took stock of itself. If the present Prime Minister cannot recognise that something very squalid has taken place- if he remains impervious to the decencies and niceties of the constitutional democracy- then we are in for a very rough time indeed. 
We are in for a very rough time indeed under this Government. Greed of party advantage has determined this Prime Minister's strategy ever since he stabbed the previous leader of his party in the back. The Government was determined that there would be an early election in 1977 for one reason alone: It believed that it could win, and it feared the people's verdict once the disastrous consequence of its economic strategy became apparent to all Australians. 
Let us look at the appalling economic record of this Government. Unemployment is skyrocketing; the deficit will be the highest in Australia's history; the exchange rate is in peril and business confidence has been destroyed. I bring to the notice of this House one important social statistic: 4,5 10 people are registered as unemployed in the Parramatta area in my electorate. No more devastating indictment can be brought against this incompetent Government than the reciting of this terrible fact. 
-Half that number. Yet in keeping with the mentality of this Government, we now discover that the Government will be attempting to cover up the true situation about the level of unemployment. The unemployment figures for February have been suppressed, despite the fact that they have been known to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  for almost a week. The Government is too embarrassed to release these statistics, too embarrassed to hear the damning conclusion that must be reached about its economic strategy. The official reason for the delay in the publication of these unemployment statistics is that the estimates compiled by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, based on random samples of households, are regarded as more accurate than the information provided by the Commonwealth Employment Service. But there is no reason why one set of figures should be regarded as so superior to the other. The reason behind this Government's change of tune about the accuracy of unemployment statistics is that it believes that the Australian Bureau of Statistics figures will be lower than the Commonwealth Employment Service figures. It is as simple as that. No consideration is given to the proposition that estimates based on random samples are hardly the method by which to measure social facts accurately. No, the Government is punting on the ABS figures being lower than the CES figures, such is the rancid mentality of the cover-up exponents on the Government benches. 
Almost daily in this House we have the odd spectacle of Government supporters espousing the wisdom of their lunatic theories of economic management and claiming a complete monopoly on sound business expertise and general intelligence. In fact, when one examines the policies of the Government, it is obvious that its policies are as shallow as the shallow men and women who formulate them. My good friend  Senator James  McClelland summed up the wishful strategy of the Government's economic thinking when he said of the GovernorGeneral's Speech: 
The philosophy of the Speech was that in the fullness of time and with a little help from on high things will right themselves. 
Fancy Australia in 1978 needing a little help from on high to put it in order. We have a Government that is paid to do that but it is making no inroads into the problems that it has created. Perhaps one should not expect too much from an administration that doggedly believes that the least government is the best government. But one should expect something better in terms of economic expertise and honesty from the men who represent this conservative philosophy. This Government's standard excuse for the mishandling of the economy is that it was left with a mess created by its Labor predecessors. But the Labor Government was in office almost three years ago. 
This is this Government's second term in office and it is still blaming us. 
Government supporters accuse us of having the hide to enter into a debate about the economy. Talking about hide, what about the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume),  with all the impertinence and front in the world, becoming a spokesman for the Government on the economy. Fresh from his disastrous sorties into the world of big business, he comes here as a failed entrepreneur in his own right, freely giving us the value of his business wisdom. Even if free, his advice is excessively priced. What arrogance that one of the architects of the Patrick Partners debacle should be parading himself in this House as an economic expert. With such intelligence at the helm, no wonder the ship of State is foundering. 
Of course there was a time when the Prime Minister, when in Opposition, had as one of his economic advisers a certain Keith Compton Gale. This gentleman managed to get his fingers caught in the till while steering his company, Gollin Holdings Ltd, into one of the biggest company crashes in Australia's history. But strangely, the one person who seemed capable of making a profit on his own behalf- the exTreasurer, the now Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)-  was sacked. Apparently the capacity for some business skills is no criterion for advancement in this Government's financial think-tank. In fact I read in the newspaper the other day that the present Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  failed mathematics in his Leaving. I think that is probably a fairly good criterion for advancement to Treasurer. 
The Government's decision not to proceed with the building of the proposed community centre in Parramatta is in line with the type of financial thinking I have just mentioned. The facts are that this proposed project could not be argued against on an economic basis. The All Party Committee of 1975, chaired by my learned friend the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  came up with some startling facts. The cost of the tower to house 4,500 public servants in 1975 would have been approximately $36. 5m. The saving by leasing accommodation for those people would be nearly $3m annually. This $3m saving compounded at  9Vi  per cent interest would have amortised the cost of the building over 10 years. In 1975, the cost of housing in Sydney alone for the Commonwealth Public Service was around $13m, almost all of this being for space privately leased. 
Surely the Parramatta project would have been a step in the right direction towards halting this ridiculous contribution to private developers, the Mainlines et cetera of this country. Never will the Government get a better chance than this to show some sound understanding of good business principles. Yet because of the Government's paranoia about a 10 per cent deficit, it refuses to go on with something that could not be argued against on any financial basis. 
One of the amendments moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand states that the Government's legislative program:  neglects to provide firm guarantees for the protection of civil liberties by legislative enactment within the powers of the Australian Government. 
In my belief, one of the great social liberties and one of the great social justices in Australia- this was proved under a Labor reign- was that everybody in this country, no matter what his social or economic background, should have equal opportunities in health care. The Medibank scheme as espoused by the Labor Government and as introduced by the Labor Government gave the people of Australia, no matter what their background, equal access to health care. This Government's respect for civil liberties and social justice is such that it is dismantling Medibank before our very eyes. It is not honestly doing so by any legislative process, but by a series of omissions, by a sinister process of letting the thing wind down. The levels of staffing are so low that the people in my electorate of Parramatta have to queue up for an hour to have their Medibank claims processed. This means that there is a queue out into the street. The consequent disillusionment of the system is driving those people back into the health funds. This is what Government supporters are all about. We know that there was some sort of revolt in their Party room last week and that the young Turks want the Executive to dismantle Medibank completely, to remove any sort of socialism. The people of Australia recognise and appreciate what Medibank did for them. It meant that those living in a part of my electorate, in the Western suburbs, were able to get an equal opportunity for health care with the people who live in the more salubrious areas. For the first time in their lives they had access to specialists without queueing up in a waiting room at a hospital to see the out-patients specialists. But all the advantages they received under Medibank have been decimated before their eyes. If the Government had the honesty to come out and say, 'Yes, we are going to hit Medibank on the head', that would probably be more appreciated. But it has adopted this sinister approach, winding the scheme down and causing disillusionment, all the while helped by the doctors. 
I do not think anybody has explained fully the real crime of doctors who knock Medibank off. About three months ago, I think, there was a survey in the  National Times  which revealed that general practitioners admitted to an average income of $72,000 annually. Yet we see the sorry spectacle of doctors being paraded before the courts week in, week out, having knocked Medibank off for $100,000, $200,000 or $300,000.I do not think anybody has yet investigated the real evil of this crime. It is not so much that doctors have become part of corporate crime in knocking public moneys off as they have done, but that they have destroyed the system that was set up to advantage so many people who needed help. This sort of doctor should not be fined: He should be de-registered and not allowed to practise again unless he does so on a salaried system in order to contribute something to the community for what he took away. I see that the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  who was a Minister for Health in the Labor Government is nodding his head in agreement. I know that this would certainly be his sentiment. 
I urge honourable members to think of the evil of it. Doctors who are not satisfied with $72,000 a year average income have ratted on the Medibank system, have put in spurious claims and are therefore guilty of knocking-off huge amounts like $100,000. What sort of people are they? Yet they are the sorts of people that the Government is supporting. It granted them a 7.5 per cent increase in their fee scale. Yet they are the very people who are helping the Government dismantle one of the great social achievements in Australia in this century- the great system of Medibank. The people in my electorate will not forget it and the number of people in Australia who voted for the Labor Party in 1977-42 per cent- will surely increase in 1980, at which time Government supporters will be back in opposition, we will be back in government, Medibank will be flourishing again, and everything in the world will be lovely. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
I bring to the notice of the House the tragic circumstances surrounding the death last month of a young couple from my electorate. They died as a result of the flooding of the Oakes Road Bridge when the Toongabbie Creek overflowed. The Toongabbie Creek forms a border between the electorates of Parramatta and Mitchell. I am sure that the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  will support my sentiments. It beggars imagination that three miles from the demographic centre of Sydney, Australia 's largest city, people drowned as the result of a natural calamity accentuated by government neglect. 
The Parramatta River Basin Drainage Study, which was prepared by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation and published in June 1976, made a number of detailed recommendations designed to prevent flash flooding. The report was commissioned by the Sydney western regional organisation of local authorities after the flash floods at Granville four years ago when the need for an inquiry on drainage in the Parramatta River basin area was realised. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  as Minister for Urban and Regional Development, made $53,000 available for this study in 1975. Shortage of time prevents my tabulating the specific proposals of the report, but I mention some recommendations concerning the construction of catchment areas. It was proposed that drainage channels be constructed to divert the flow of water by means of a system of retardation weirs along Toongabbie Creek and then, after the flood has subsided, to let the water gradually down the river to Parramatta. 
It is disgraceful that the unctuous Ministers for Environment, Housing and Community Development have sat on this report for nearly two years without bothering to act on the proposals for flood mitigation. My good friend, the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  wrote to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development on 4 February 1977 requesting information on what action the Minister intended to take on this matter. The Minister replied. I quote from his letter: 
I am aware of the merits of the proposal. However, in the light of the present economic situation, I think it would be unlikely that funds would be made available in the very near future. 
One can only hope that the Minister's myopic view about this matter has been shaken as a result of this tragedy at Oakes Road Bridge. I doubt that this will be so. It amazes me that a Minister of this Government, which has restored so many of the exemptions and subsidies benefiting the already privileged minority- a government whose Budget deficit will, according to recent estimates, exceed any other in our nation's history- can express the vapid opinion that nothing can be done in regard to the urgent work required to mitigate the flooding in the Parramatta River basin. 
One cannot help feeling how cynical the Government's 1975 campaign slogan of 'turning on the lights' now stands in relation to the reply by the Minister to my colleague. The statement in the light of present economic circumstances' is an old catch phrase used by conservative politicians to deny justified grievances emanating from this side of the House. It just is not good enough. I add this warning: Unless the Government acts on the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation's report there will be more tragedies as a result of flash flooding. How many more needless accidents shall take place before the Government acts responsibly? I do not deny that the solution to this problem lies in a co-ordinated effort by all three tiers of government- Federal, State and local. However, the main source of the $1 1m required to effectively implement the full recommendations must come from the Federal Government. 
The Whitlam era provided a start to this scheme. Some $50,000 was provided to help build the Briens Road bridge. Some $50,000 was provided to pipe the Finlaysons Creek. These are parts of the whole Toongabbie Creek system. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  trumpets about the country about a $200m national flood mitigation program. In seven years the Toongabbie Creek system has claimed eight innocent lives in my electorate which is a highly developed and heavily populated area. 
I demand that a high priority be allotted to the implementation of the SMEC scheme. I am aghast that in an area so highly populated and which is just three miles from the centre of one of the world's great cities, people can drown on a local road because governments refuse to implement a scheme which was fully organised and explained as a complete cure to the problem. Unless something happens almost immediately to see that the flood threat is mitigated I am sure there will be more deaths. But I hope that because of the deaths of these two young people in the last month the Government will be prompted to get off its tail and spend the $1 lm required to implement this scheme so that perhaps these young lives will not have been lost in vain. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce and refer him to a statement he made on 15 December last year that he had an interest in two 
Gold Coast units. I ask the Minister: Was his name used in Press releases to promote the sale of units in the Golden Gate development in Surfers Paradise? Was his name ever used in the promotion of another Gold Coast development known as 'Surfers International', in which he paid a deposit on a unit? Further, is it a fact that the Minister's name was used to advertise on Melbourne radio station 3UZ yet another Gold Coast development? Will the Minister inform the House how many units he either owns or has options to purchase on the Gold Coast? 
-I rise to support my colleague, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  I echo his sentiment that we do not oppose the Bill in practical terms but that we do have great reservations about the Bill as it stands. I think it is basically a case of our kindness, our compassion for farmers in Victoria, ruling our hearts because there are a great variety of reasons for saying that this loan, to be guaranteed by the Government, is shot through with possibilities of disaster. I note with interest that the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Ewen Cameron),  along with a lot of other farmers, is a shareholder in this Co-operative and I sympathise with him, basically because of his blind optimism. I have been involved with the meat industry for 25 years and I have seen many similar organisations fail along the way. 
-It is not thanks to our workers at all. The honourable member for Mallee, as a member of the National Country Party, should refer to an acknowledgement by the Victorian National Party that farmers are not really capable of handling business in the big, hard business world. That statement is not easy to deny. It has been made, in fact quite recently. The honourable member for Mallee should check with his Victorian State counterparts about it. That is the reason why organisations such as this have failed. It is not because of any want of desire to succeed, but. merely because they do not have the expertise in the business world to handle problems. 
We are talking about a $4.5m guarantee from this Government to support the loan which is sought by Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd. We are talking about an enormous amount of responsibility and we, as an Opposition, have to act as watchdogs in this place and see that the Government invests this money wisely. I should like to warn the Government of the dangers which are inherent in this exercise. On 28 February, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  suggested that the Government did not see its role as being the guarantor of survival of individual companies that find themselves in trouble. That is exactly what is happening in this case and, as the honourable member for Gellibrand has pointed out, it has also happened in some other selective cases. I agree with the honourable member for Gellibrand that definite guidelines should be set up by this Government as to which companies are entitled to support from it. As it is now, it seems like there is a random selection of companieswhoever has the closest contact with the Government or with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has the greatest chance of having his company propped up. I do not say that as any criticism of the honourable member for Indi because, as I said at the start, we really do sympathise with farmers who have invested their money in this company and we would love to think that it could work. 
The Co-operative was set up by the farmers in 1959 because they believed that massive profits were being made by wholesale meat companies and processors. I think the record would suggest that that is not the case. There would be plenty of opportunities for the people who did invest in this organisation to look up the records of some of the public meat companies and see that the profit ratings were not all that flash. 
The record of the Co-operative as a business venture is deplorable. In that 10-year period it went into receivership twice. Because of the Cooperative's lack of control over the person who became its managing director, money was channelled into other companies and away from the Co-operative, to its detriment, so that in 1974 the Co-operative found itself $6.5m in debt. The Australian Industry Development Corporation, probably to its eternal regret, bailed the Cooperative out. In 1975 its total debts were $12m, of which $6.5m was owed to the AIDC. That cannot be explained away by the fact that  Mr Smart,  in conjunction with  Mr Maxwell  Newtonit sounds like a Max Smart operation: The old 'channel the money out the back door' trickmanaged to knock off just over $lm. But what happened to the balance of that $12m? It obviously disappeared because of lack of expertise in the job that was being undertaken. 
I believe that the honourable member for Indi stated that the company was now trading profitably. If it is, why is the AIDC so very anxious to get out? Why is it anxious to throw away for $10.25m a works which is allegedly worth $25m? 
-Yes, that is a good question which I should like to see answered and which I am sure the people of Australia would like to see answered. I would hope that the AIDC, if it is responsible for bailing the Cooperative out, would have greater business expertise in its own ranks than to throw away something that could possibly return all the money to shareholders. As it is now, if the works are sold, the shareholders will get a return of only 60c in the dollar. We on this side of the House do not want to see that happen. Regardless of what Government supporters might think, we do have compassion for farmers in their plight. Regardless of the fact that we consider this to be a very optimistic exercise by the Government, we are prepared to support it with the very idealistic view that we would like to see farmers get this support even if we have to risk this sort of operation to do so. 
The history of the meat industry in Australia is littered with similar cases of farmer-oriented or producer-oriented co-operatives being formed, and I quote the Prime Minister's words 'to give the farmers an independent voice in the marketplace'. I can mention a number of such cooperatives in New South Wales of recent history. There was the rural producers co-operative and the producers direct meat co-operative which started with a great flourish and aimed to set the wholesale meat industry afire. These cooperatives lasted a very short time and, as is usual, left behind the shareholders funds. It appears to me that the reason for this was that the co-operatives were just not capable of handling the job. Their job is to produce the stock. It is a job for somebody else who has expertise in a particular area to turn their stock into money. I caution the honourable member for Indi and say that unless a great deal of supervision and management is given to the Co-operative once it starts back in opertion, presuming it will, its destiny will be reflected in its history. There have been two receiverships in 10 years and there is a history of disasters in similar operations throughout Australia. Unless a great deal of difference is made in the operations of this set-up and a great deal of new management expertise is introduced, I am afraid that it will be again looking disaster right in the face. 
There have been plenty of examples of privately-owned works operating at great profit. I can mention three or four in New South Wales which are operating as service killing works with a certain amount of trading and which have made a great success of their job. Conkey and Sons of Cootamundra is one example. The Midco Co-operative Meat Society on the North Coast of New South Wales is a producer oriented company which has been going for decades and which, under very tight and close supervision, has made a great success of its operation. A Victorian company, Petersville, has taken over an abattoir at Berrima in New South Wales. Under the very skilful management of the gentleman who handles the meat end of its operations it will be a great success. There is no doubt about that. The co-operative of which the honourable member for Indi is a member could learn from the lessons of those companies. Under tight management and with proper supervision these establishments can work profitably, but the supervision has to be proper and the management tight. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand foreshadowed some amendments which will be moved at the Committee stage. I was pleased to hear the honourable member for Indi refer to some of the provisions of the amendments when he spoke about management control of the board. The sum involved of $4.5m is a great deal of public money. The Opposition insists that the Government exercises a great deal of care in ensuring that this money is well protected. This money belongs to a large number of taxpayers in the community who are earning low incomes and who, by paying taxes, are investing in the government purse, which is now to be used to prop up something which probably should never have been formed, which was no doubt formed with a great deal of optimism and which has now failed. 
-I think I have some sort of idea of how it was formed. It was formed by 10,000 farmers who thought they were being ripped off by people in the middle and who decided to kill their own and trade their own. It is a good example of how badly they judged the situation. 
-I have managed to exist in the field for 25 years-- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman) Order! If the honourable member for Parramatta and the honourable member for La Trobe wish to have a discourse they should do so through the Chair. 
-The only concern of honourable members on this side of the House is to see that the $4.5m that is about to be invested in this operation is invested responsibly. The honourable member for Gellibrand pointed out that once the loan is negotiated and the debts are paid the Co-operative will have a working capital of $lm. It will be looking at the probability of having to find $20,000 a week or $ lm a year to service the loan. It will take a fair effort to get a return of 100 per cent on the working capital, but that is what the Co-operative is looking at doing. To believe that the Co-operative can prosper is really to believe in miracles, but honourable members on this side of the House are very optimistic. I feel that if more honourable members like the honourable member for Indi, who has a Scottish background and who would have a canny business sense, were involved in the operations of the Co-operative, with better control and better supervision, it could perhaps pay off. We are not opposing the Bill for the very good reason that we are anxious to ensure that the farmers in Victoria who have invested in this Cooperative get some sort of chance. 
I believe that last November the Prime Minister telexed all the Premiers, including the Victorian Premier, suggesting that an urgent inquiry take place into the meat industry. To my knowledge no action has taken place to this stage. I would like to think that the Government will pursue this course of action and that it will put pressure on the State governments to ensure that a proper inquiry into the whole operation of the meat industry takes place so that we will not see this sort of disaster occurring again and so that some sort of rational control takes place under the Federal Government. This large industry needs to be placed in proper hands. 
-I heard an interjection about the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union. Some of the members of the National Country Party fail to realise that the job which the members of the AMIEU do is not the most congenial in the world. I suggest that they should go to an abattoir and look at the work that some of these people do. For decades in Australia the AMIEU and its members have been responsible for turning the farmers' livestock into money. No matter how hard the farmers try, they cannot take 100 bullocks to a bank and pay them into that bank. The livestock has to be turned into cash. It is high time that the producers realised the part played by the people in the middle, the wholesale butchers, and the people who are at the working end of the stick. The honourable member for Gellibrand referred to the meat business as being a ruthless, cutthroat business. It is a cut-throat business; that is true. The members of the AMIEU who have done all the less than congenial tasks over the decades have managed to turn the Australian producers' stock into cash. That is what the producers live off. Members of the National Country Party should not decry the work of the members of the AMIEU. 
-I am proud to admit that as well as being a former  chairman  of the Wholesale Meat Traders Association of New South Wales I am a member of the AMIEU. I have found no conflict of interest. Members of the AMIEU, the producers and the wholesale butchers in the middle are all looking to the meat industry for a living. The health of that industry depends on co-operation from them all. I hope that honourable members on the National Country Party benches as well as those on the Liberal Party benches realise that an effort is being made by the Labor Party to see that some co-operation is given to the country people in their period of distress. These are good reasons to suggest that this is a bad venture by the Government. I agree with the honourable member for Gellibrand that in three years the Co-operative will be asking for an extension of this loan. I should like to think that the Government would grant it. I have some confidence in the success of the operation. But it can succeed only if the Government keeps a strict watch over it. I assure the Government that the Opposition will be keeping a strong eye on the Government to see that this investment by the Government in this Co-operative- presuming it occurs- is closely supervised to make sure that the taxpayers money is protected. I hope that in the end of the period concerned we will be able to see that by good husbandry and good management the Co-operative is back on its feet and trading profitably and that the Government's money has been returned. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  I back up every reason which he has advanced in proposing this amendment to the Bill. It is clear that this Government will involve itself in a guarantee of $4.5m to support a business which has already failed twice in 10 years and which has a long history of adopting some very disappointing business procedures. It would appear to me to be a responsible action by the Committee to see that Victoria appoints a full-scale inquiry into the operations of the society known as Cooperative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd. Such an inquiry would not only ascertain the present financial situation of the society, which appears to be clouded with a certain amount of mystery and, to some extent, intrigue but also would be a vehicle for suggesting the best way in which the company could trade itself out of its difficulties. 
The full ramifications of the trading of a society such as this which is involving itself not only with the killing of stock but also with the trading of meat and the sale of the byproducts may well determine which is the best way for the company to operate. It would be my guess that the inquiry would determine that the fact that the society acted in the form of a middleman in marketing the stock of the producers was probably one of the basic reasons for its failure. This is certainly the pattern that has been followed by similar organisations. The ones which have failed worst are the ones which have involved themselves as middlemen. It might well be that the abattoir side of the operation- the killing of stock on a contract basis and the sale of the byproducts and the tallow- may well be the answer to a maiden's prayers. It may well be the way to put the society back on the path to success. For that reason alone I think the suggestion that the Victorian Government should appoint a full-scale inquiry should be followed. I have great pleasure in supporting my colleague's amendment. 
-I did not really expect to speak in the debate on the Commonwealth Banks Amendment Bill. There was an arrangement that only two speakers from each side of the House would speak in the debate. But as the opportunity to speak has arisen, I will say a few words on the Bill. As the night is wearing on and as there are other Bills to be debated, I will not spend too much of the time of the House on it. The Opposition is supporting the Bill, lt has moved an amendment which basically encourages the Government to make more money available to small businesses. But what worries me is that in this situation honourable members opposite- the disciples and the supporters of small business people in Australia- rise in the House and mouth all the erroneous platitudes that small business people do not want to hear. 
First of all, we have heard honourable members opposite advance the argument constantly that the problems of small businesses today were promoted by the Labor Government. This is arrant nonsense. The figures indicate quite clearly that in Australia between 1969 and 1 972 the number of small businesses that went to the wall for any number of reasons was much greater than the number of small businesses which failed under the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975. So let us put that nonsense to bed once and for ever. The Australian Labor Party, in office, was the Party that provided some sort of vehicle or some sort of machinery for small business to have support. The small business support scheme was started by the Whitlam Government. It is very unfortunate that the present Government has seen fit to sink the scheme away in a cupboard in the back of a department. The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  mentioned that he was a small businessman who started from nothing. So did I. We do not find it altogether exceptional that the honourable members on this side of the House have managed to succeed in their own business. We believe in a mixed economy. But we believe also that honourable members opposite should look at the real problems that are facing small business. They are not necessarily the problems which honourable members opposite have put forward. 
The reason that small business is having great difficulty in Australia is that you have succeeded in giving us a non-expansive economy. The Government has allowed the economy to sink or to contract to such an extent that all the confidence of the spending public has disappeared. The reason that small business is finding it difficult to make a profit and to exist can be found in the letter that  Mr Pilgrim  has written to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Surely this was not a case of  Pilgrim's Progress.  This was Pilgrim's retraction. He gave all the reasons why his business was failing. Out of a staff of 22 people, he has had to retrench seven. He has written about a lack of contracts, a lack of profit and a lack of support from his bank. The stagnation of the economy is the big problem that he is facing. It is when the economy is booming, when people are prepared to spend and when they have some confidence in the country's future that small business can see some future and can make some profit. While ever you people opposite do the things that you are doing, while ever you have this paranoia about the deficit and while ever you have this paranoia about reducing all the advantages that small business people want to see in the economy, then small businesses will fail. 
-The number of people we put out of business was very small. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The House will come to order or there will be several honourable members out of business. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The unemployment rate that Australia suffered under a Labor Government was largely in Une with the rate of unemployment in all the developed countries of the world. This was also the case with the inflation rate. The difference since the change of government is that the rest of the world has been able to correct these ills while Australia has not been able to do so. Australia never will correct these ills while we have successive governments of its colour and while we have successive Treasurers who preach the sorts of policies they preach. The Government has a paranoia with the deficit and with inflation. It has a lack of regard for the fact that unemployment is the large problem in Australia. Every person who becomes unemployed becomes a non-consumer. For every non-consumer, there are three or four people who are terrified at the prospect of losing their jobs. Because they are terrified about losing their jobs, they do not spend. They do not buy a new motor car and they do not buy new conveniences for their houses. They do not want to build a house. All they want to do is to put money into the savings banks or into building societies and leave it there for the rainy day that they know is around the corner. That is the basic problem facing small business. The quicker the Government can see that this is the problem, the quicker the Government can see that the Australian people want to have some confidence in the economy which will lead them to spend, then the quicker that small business will get back on its feet. 
I am speaking from hard experience. I have battled in the small business area for 25 years, I must say with a great deal of success. I am the sort of person, like the honourable member for Robertson, who is not looking for handouts. The people that honourable members opposite talk about, particularly the people that members of the National Country Party support, are the people who decry us as socialists. But they are the best practising socialists in Australia. They want support at the production end and they want support at the marketing end. They want all the benefits that they can get. A very good example of this came before the House last week in the form of a Bill which the Australian Labor Party supported. I refer to the Bill to support the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd in Melbourne. The support we gave to that Bill demonstrates the attitude that we take to small business. We do not want to put down small business. We do not want to see it disadvantaged to the advantage of the multinational companies and the great corporate bodies. We want to see the small Australian person, who works for himself and who provides employment, prosper. That is the reason we are supporting this Bill. But I take issue with the people opposite who have been speaking arrant nonsense in respect of small businesses. The Whitlam Labor Government did all it could to bolster small business. Since returning to Government all you people have done is what you did between 1969 and 1972. You have put the little people out of work. Do not rise in this House and hypocritically say that you support the little people. You support the multinational corporations - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member for Parramatta should address his remarks through the Chair. 
The use of the word 'you' is not the proper way for the honourable member to address the Chair. 
-I apologise to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  How could I dare refrain from addressing my remarks through a man of your stature. I will finish on this note: The Opposition supports the Bill. I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide (MrHurford)that - 
-He is around somewhere. We support the basis of the Bill but we would like to see it expanded to make more money available for small businesses. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Proposed new clauses. 
Motion (by  Mr Howard)-  by leave- agreed to: 
After clause 3, insert the following new clauses: 
Section 84 of the  Commonwealth Banks Act  1959 is repealed. 
After section 85 of the  Commonwealth Banks Act  1 959 the following section is inserted: 85 A. ( 1 ) The Development Bank shall not, except with the approval of the Treasurer, borrow moneys other than moneys lent to, or deposited with it under section 85. 
The Treasurer may give an approval for the purposes of sub-section ( 1 ) in respect of a particular borrowing or in respect of borrowings included in a particular class of borrowings.'. 
Section 1 1 1 of the  Commonwealth Banks Act  1 959 is amended by omitting from sub-section (3) "One thousand five hundred dollars" and substituting "$5,000 or, if another amount is prescribed for the purposes of this subsection, that other amount".'. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
It is always amusing to hear the paragon of economic genius, the failed entrepreneur from Macarthur  (Mr Baume),  lambasting members on this side of the House suggesting their absolute lack of any business knowledge, pouring scorn upon us for our low level of intelligence and decrying the fact that we would even have the gall to debate a tax Bill. One thing is sure: Shareholders associated with the honourable member for Macarthur will not have to worry about a Curran scheme. They will never need a Curran scheme to pay tax or to avoid paying tax, because they will not have any to pay. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett).  I am reminded that the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  referred to the old saying that in life two unavoidable happenings are death and taxation. That is probably true. However, there was a well known Australian philosopher- at least I call him a philosopher, a homespun philosopher by the name of Ken Howard- who used to say that there are three certainties of life; death, taxation and the fact that the punters will eat the paint off the walls. I would add a fourth certainty and say that the little people of Australia, the workers, the small people, the people of my electorate, will pay more than their equal share of the tax burden because of the policies adopted by people who support members opposite, the high earners in Australia, the doctors, the lawyers, the very rich, the rich people on the land, who not only minimise their tax but also avoid paying it. That is what this measure is all about. 
The people of Parramatta whom I represent would be disgusted if I did not make these facts known in this Parliament. The people of Parramatta are, like a lot of other people in Australia, little people who earn their salary or wage and pay their full share of the tax burden without any need to turn to a device to avoid paying tax. In fact, they cannot afford to engage corporate lawyers and accountants. They cannot afford to get expert advice which might enable them to avoid paying their equal share of the tax bill. That is all that members on this side of the House want Australians to do. No matter what their income level, everyone should pay a proper share of the burden. 
-We are trying to help the Government to do it now. The Government says it will cut off tax avoidance schemes. Maybe it will but let us look at this Government. The former Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in August of last year made a statement with regard to taxation schemes. He is the high priest of taxation evasion, a man who was concerned not only in accumulating money in dirty land deals, ripping off young people in Victoria who wanted to buy a block of land - 
-I withdraw the word dirty and substitute the word suspect. 
I withdraw that word and merely say land deals. Having gained this illgotten wealth, he avoided taxation in a very considerable way by - 
The former Treasurer avoided tax on these gains by resorting to the old ploy of family trusts. There are several people on the Government side of the House who confess to employing family trusts to minimise or avoid taxation. That is the ludicrous part of this debate. 
I have never avoided sixpence and I am pleased to say so. 
The fact is that as an individual I have never avoided paying even sixpence in tax and I am proud to say so. I am sure that that goes for all members on this side of the House. We are quite happy to pay our taxes. We are quite happy to share the burden of the net that this Government must use to garner the amount of money it needs to run government. We are prepared to pay our share. I wish Government supporters would be likewise. Of course, the people who supply wealth and patronage to the Government are not customarily used to paying their share and these are the people who revert to use of schemes such as the Curran scheme. I noted with some interest that the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  quoted some obscure saying of Saint Thomas Aquinas. 
-I think it was probably a fabricated quotation. He sounds like a Mafia tax-collector. Bearing in mind the Government's attitude to the Curran scheme and its attempts to eliminate it the honourable member would have been better off quoting Saint Augustine who once said, 'Lord, make me virtuous, but not yet'. Of course, the phrase 'but not yet' is the critical part of that quotation. Sure the Treasurer said in August last that the Government would eliminate the Curran scheme or taxation evasion schemes, but that was in the afternoon. For all of that day people- in Perth particularly- had an opportunity to implement Curran schemes and did so to the extent that we know of $ 100m being invested in one day. Of course it was a matter of 'but not yet'. If it is to be retrospective why not make it retrospective to the date on which the statement was made, 7 August 1977, and not the day after? If that were done it would catch a lot of people who took advantage of that lapse of time to involve themselves in a Curran scheme. 
The Curran scheme is only one of many devices used by people to avoid tax. There is no need to detail them all. One interesting arrangement is an avoidance scheme that has arisen in relation to contributions to charities. We have heard stories from a taxation official of entrepreneurs who generously take 98.8 per cent as their share of a deal. For instance, a donation of $10,000 is made. The charity gets $120, the donor gets a tax saving on $10,000 and the entrepreneur gets a mere $9,880- a nice little dividend for his efforts. Also there is a wealth sharing ruse that people use in primary industry by averaging their income over seven years. If they were to use trusts, as they do, an even longer period could be involved. Members on this side of the House are disturbed that this has been allowed to continue. 
Presumably the Government will not accept the Opposition's proposed amendment which would require that when a scheme is recognised and identified by a statement by the Government, any legislation enacted would be retrospective to the start of the financial year in which the scheme was discovered. All legislation on tax evasion should be pre-dated to the beginning of the financial year. It is obvious that that could not be construed as retrospectivity because tax is not paid until the end of the financial year on money gained within that financial year. It would be morally sound to pre-date the legislation to the previous 1 July and so eliminate tax evasion in relation to any schemes that might be discovered. The Opposition asks the Government to accept this proposed amendment. The 
Opposition considers that to be a morally proper amendment. 
In essence the Opposition would probably like to see retrospectivity back to 1974 when the then Treasurer, Frank Crean, made a statement with regard to these schemes. It is sad that something was not done about it when Labor was in office. I do not deny that. But we would have had trouble getting the legislation through the Senate anyhow. The quicker honourable members opposite recognise that, the quicker they will be facing up to the truth. The point is, nothing happened. But at least a clear and definitive statement was made that the Curran scheme was recognised as evil and as a blot on the Australia economy. At least this legislation operates retrospectively to last August. But we ask the Government to consider with some seriousness the morality of going back to the start of the financial year. Implicit in that plea is a demand that all future legislation of a similar type also be back dated to the financial year in which the schemes are discovered. 
We on this side of the House have no compassion at all for tax evaders. The Government has undertaken a constant blood hunt against people who have been accused of being dole bludgers- the odd percentage of people who have been unemployed and who perhaps have been ripping off the unemployment relief scheme. I do not think any honourable member would deny that that has been occurring. But the same ardour which the Government has shown in pursuing people who have been ripping it off for pennies should be shown in pursuing the people who have been ripping the economy off for millions of dollars. May I add: If only the Government had exhibited the same ardour in attacking the doctors who have been ripping off Medibank as it has shown towards the 'dole bludgers'- to use the Government's term! We are very concerned that the Government starts chasing the tax bludgers. 
When we talk about the Curran scheme and other tax avoidance schemes we are not talking about tax minimisation; we are talking about absolute tax avoidance. We can read plenty of histories of people earning a quarter of a million dollars a year: Some doctors, some industrialists, some corporate lawyers, some stockbrokers and some corporate accountants who have been entrepreneurs in the Curran scheme. These preservers of decency who have instituted these immoral schemes have been earning enormous incomes and have been paying not one cent of tax. If any honourable member can defend them with some hollow cant about the evils of retrospectivity I should be glad to hear it, as would the people whom I represent, because they pay their share of income tax. However small their incomes, they pay every cent they are obliged to pay. We consider it morally indefensible that any Australian, no matter what his background or profession might be, can face up to the people of Australia and say: 'I am earning this sort of money but I am not paying any tax '. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  produced a very good example. He mentioned the case of a well known land developer in Brisbane who has done just this. Over the past few years he has accumulated millions of dollars worth of assets and, by using the Curran scheme, he has not paid one cent in tax. How he lives with his conscience, I do not know. 
-The honourable member is right. Richard Nixon did the same. That is probably a fairly good comparison. We on this side of the House have to face up to the people who support us. We are supported by the workers who pay their fair share in tax. All we want to ensure for them is that the rest of Australia does likewise. The Government needs a certain amount of revenue to run the country. It is an undoubted fact that, if a certain patronised percentage of the population is not paying any tax at all, the people at the other end- the small income earners, the people who do pay their tax- have to pay an inordinately large share of the tax burden to square up the accounts. I am defending these people because they are the people who sent me to this House. 
-Probably in your case,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and in the case of the honourable member who interjected, that is quite correct. I have a lot of respect for the gentleman who interjected. We on this side of the House find morally indefensible people who avoid paying tax. Not one word can be said in their favour. Whatever hollow cant is produced to justify the avoidance of tax by saying that people who do so are only manipulating the law, does not wash with us. We are concerned with true morality and true honesty. We are concerned that a government is seen to ensure that every person in Australia subscribes to those ethics because they are the ethics upon which this country was built; they are the ethics upon which we want it to continue. It will not continue to be based on those ethics while the sorts of taxation minimisation schemes about which we are talking are allowed to exist. 
We compliment the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  for having the courage to go on with this legislation. I agree with the honourable member for Bonython and hope that pressure is not brought to bear upon the Treasurer by all the people who have been sending us letters, obviously Liberal Party supporters who no doubt will be very keen to see that this legislation is not enacted. We defend the Treasurer for his stand but we ask the Government to support our proposed amendment. We feel that it will provide a more effective way not only of stopping the tax minimising schemes which presently exist, but also enabling, given a certain amount of morality, these schemes to be stopped in the future. 
My approach to this matter is a very simplistic one. It is a simple analysis of the case that exists before us at the moment where a certain section of the community has seen fit to absolve itself from contributing to the national purse. A small percentage of people has seen fit not to pay their tax. We are not talking about tax minimisation: We are talking about tax avoidancepeople earning very high incomes who were not happy to minimise their tax; they wanted to avoid it completely. That is the morality of the subject about which we are talking. 
I was rather appalled to see honourable gentlemen on the other side of the chamber whom I respect, searching through legal books and legal histories to find all sorts of quasi legal jargon and quasi legal arguments in respect of the precedent of retrospectivity. The main argument they seemed to advance was that they were terrified that this power might fall into the hands of a Labor Government. I refer those honourable members to the many occasions in this nation 's history where the Labor Party had control of both Houses of this Parliament. In those circumstances that power was treated with great respect. I defy those honourable members to find one example where the power wielded by any former Labor Government with the numbers in both Houses has been misused in any flagrant fashion. 
We are talking now of a group of men elected to this Parliament by 14 million Australians. I do not think that we were elected here to investigate the niceties of the law. What we are here for is to see that all Australians are protected and that they all have an equal right or an equal responsibility under the law. I applaud the stand that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has taken. I agree with my friend the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  in that I too would like to have seen the Labor Government introduce this legislation when Treasurer Crean first spoke about it back in 1974. 
We did not; that is the end of that. The point is that the Treasurer has made the matter retrospective to last August. The amendment we have proposed is designed to make the matter retrospective to 1 July. Honourable members opposite are not happy to accept that amendment. At least we are happy that the Treasurer has seen fit to continue with the legislation that he introduced. He has great support from us on that point. It worries me that a certain amount of moral rectitude is being shown by those honourable members opposite who are terrified about the use of this power. The same honourable members when previously in government saw fit to introduce conscription. If that were not a reprehensible act, I do not know what is. It was a reprehensible act to send young kids to Vietnam to fight and die in an unjustified war. The people who did that are now expressing some moral fear - 
-I am using the argument to show that the same people are now terrified about the use of some other power to make sure that a privileged section of the community pays its share of the tax bill. We want to ensure that all Australians pay their fair share of the tax bill. We applaud the Treasurer for the stand that he has taken. I am rather worried about the attitude taken by the honourable members opposite who are producing all sorts of strange moral arguments against this legislation. We cannot support their view. Our view is that the great majority of Australians want to see this injustice removed from the statute book and this legislation will go a long way towards doing so. I support the amendment proposed by the Opposition. I also support, in essence, the legislation introduced by the Treasurer. 
-I ask the Minister for Health: Is it a fact that the administrative expenses of Medibank Standard were 4.2 per cent of benefits paid? Is it also a fact that the administrative expenses of Medibank Private were 15.7 per cent of benefits paid which is a figure comparable with that of private funds? If this is the case will the Minister agree that the collection of all health contributions by means of a tax levy would appear to be a most efficient method of lowering health costs? 
My grievance also concerns a form of terrorism- the terrorism practised on the young unemployed. Perhaps the most disheartening aspect of mass unemployment is the length to which some unscrupulous people will go in order to exploit the young unemployed. Unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, is the greatest national problem with which we are confronted. Youth unemployment in the western suburbs of Sydney is so high that it now ranks with the economically depressed ghetto areas of the United States of America. We are facing the prospect that many young people will not in the foreseeable future find employment or, at best, will be employed only for a very short duration. In order to alleviate these problems, the Government initiated a scheme called the special youth employment and training program, which provided an incentive for employers to employ young people who had been unemployed for a period of up to four months. Under the scheme they were granted a subsidy of $67 per week for every young person they employed. Most of the people who have been taken on under this scheme have been between the ages of 15 years and 19 years. Nearly 40,000 people have been affected by this program. Over $50m was spent during the financial year 1 977-78 in sustaining it. 
Sadly, there is evidence that the scheme has been disgracefully abused and the lives of the young people involved have been cynically exploited. According to a survey conducted by the Department of Employment and Industrial 
Relations in December of last year, only 35 per cent of those people taken on under the scheme and completing it have been given permanent jobs by their employers. Obviously, many employers are retrenching young people at the end or shortly before the end of the six months training period. The conclusion to be drawn from this information is that many employers are making use of this scheme merely to reduce their operating costs rather than as a means of training personnelthe sole reason for its implementation. All those people eligible under the special youth employment and training program have endured periods of employment for at least four months and often for many months longer. It seems to me that employers who practise the cruel deception of promising a young unemployed worker a permanent job under the pretext of this program and then sacking such a person after receiving, in effect, six months cheap labour should be compelled to refund that subsidy to the Federal Government It would appear that only through such means can we prevent the type of exploitation I have described. 
I suspect that there have been several instances in my electorate of the scenario I have described becoming a horrible reality. Spurious, or at least very suspect, reasons are advanced for the dismissal of these young people near the end of their six months training period. I urge the Government to review this scheme, which I believe was commenced as a band-aid and a sop for the great mass of unemployed kids. Some unscrupulous employers are cynically exploiting the scheme and, in the final analysis, breaking the hearts of kids who optimistically think that they are on the threshold of a career only to be thrust back into the limbo of the unemployment wilderness. 
There is another related matter regarding the Commonwealth Employment Service which I find incomprehensible. It seems to me to be very strange that many employers- I know that this happens in my electorate- fail to take advantage of the employment opportunities that are offered to them to fill vacancies with the number of kids registered for employment with the CES. In my area about 4,500 young people are registered for employment. It seems very strange that only 40 per cent of the vacancies that occur in the electorate are filled through the CES. I think that employers generally have listened to the theories that are put about by lots of people, in lots of cases Government supporters, that all the young people who are unemployed are long-haired dole bludgers. That is not the case in my electorate. Most of the kids registered at the CES, which 
I visit quite regularly, are well educated, well brought up, decent young kids looking for a job. They really and diligently want to work. I find it quite sad that employers fail to take the opportunity of this great reservoir of people looking for jobs and instead use the private employment agencies. 
The kids who are unemployed at the moment represent the best educated group of young people we have ever turned out. Education in the last generation in Australia has seen a revolution. The type of child leaving school at the end of fourth or sixth form is the best educated young kid we have ever turned out. It is very sad that 4,500 of them in my electorate are unemployed, yet vacancies are being filled from other sources. I urge all employers, particularly those in the Parramatta area, to look to their CES when they have a vacancy to fill. There is a great mass of kids there who want to work. 
As an alderman of the local council, I was very pleased that the council saw fit to advertise for ten apprentices in five trades- plumbing, carpentry, painting, gardening and mechanics. The number of kids who came along to apply for these jobs was sickening. Six hundred children applied for ten vacancies as apprentices. This proves the point I am making that the bulk of the young people who are unemployed genuinely want to work. They do not want the dole. They want the dignity of employment. They are prepared to take on apprenticeships, which means five years on low wages and going to a technical college in their own time, which indicates to me that they are kids who genuinely want to work. They do not want to fill in time. They do not want the dole in order to go to the beach or the movies or to do the other things of which they are accused. They want work. 
In my electorate there is a great mass of kids registered with the CES for work. I urge all employers to think about going to the CES and using it as an employment agency. It is not there just to hand out the dole. It is there to find jobs for people. The type of young person I know of who is registered at the CES is the best type. He is a person I would be very pleased to employ. I hope that employers in Parramatta take note of this next time they are trying to fill a vacancy. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Defence. In answer to a question on 1 1 May the Minister stated that a satellite terminal was removed in 1973; that it was replaced in October 1977; and that there is now a United States proposal to upgrade that facility in 1980-81, subject to the proposal being acceptable to the Australian Government. As that answer was the same in essence as the considered answer given by  Senator Withers  in the Senate and as both answers were incorrect in fact, will the Minister inform the House from what source the information was derived and why in a considered answer incorrect information was given to the Parliament? 
I would like to deal briefly with the nonsense that was spouted by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu).  He started off in a nonsensical fashion by telling us that the Budget deficit will be only slightly higher than predicted, $2.2 billion as against $3 billion. It is only a matter of $800m, not a very big increase in the projected deficit, a mere bagatelle for the people and the representative of the La Trobe electorate. However, for the people of Australia an enormous burden has been placed upon them because the Government's projections were wrong. It is as simple as that. The honourable member asked whether the Opposition contested the schemes which the Government has implemented to provide help for the unemployed. Of course we do not but we do not believe, and I am sure that the honourable member for La Trobe does not believe, that the reason for the great increase in the deficit is the money that has been spent on schemes to help the unemployed. The reason the deficit has blown out is as well known to him as it is to me. 
As pointed out by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  the reason the deficit has blown out is that the Government's revenue is a lot less than the Government expected it to be. Pay-as-you-earn tax revenue is down by $5 15m, sales tax revenue is down by $1 75m and customs duty revenue is down by $ 195m- nearly $ 1,000m in three items. Each of these results was promoted by the lack of confidence which people have in the Australian economy, and is it any wonder in view of the schemes that this Government has put  forward  to the Australian people as part of what should be a responsible economic program? 
The honourable member for La Trobe rejected the call to rev up the economy. Of course he would. Government supporters have had their heads under a rock since the Government has been in office. They are economic troglodytes. They are out of step with world thinking.  Mr Witteveen  from the International Monetary Fund has been calling on governments around the world to stimulate their economies by injecting public funds.  Mr Callaghan,  the Prime Minister of England- not an altogether unreliable authority- has been calling for a similar injection of public funds. But what do we see from this Government? A total rejection of that call and adherence to its outdated, outmoded, discredited and paranoid policy on inflation. Never mind the social costs of getting inflation down. Never mind the fact that this policy has locked us into a situation of very high unemployment which of itself tends to wind down our economy. For every person who loses his job another person loses confidence, and when he loses confidence he fails to become a consumer. When he stops buying we might as well stop manufacturing. Last year the only two items which were manufactured in Australia in excess of our requirements in past years were the red ink with which people could write in the deficits on their own budgets and the unemployment relief forms that were needed for all the unemployed. 
The Loan Act 1977 authorised borrowings for defence purposes of up to $ 1,100m so that expenditure on defence which would otherwise be met from the Consolidated Revenue Fund could be met from the Loan Fund. This method of avoiding the Loan Council- that is, by using the excuse of providing funds for defence purposeshas been used by governments in the past and the Opposition does not really quibble with it. However, it is rather bemusing when we think of what members of this Government used to say about the Labor Government when it was in power and was stepping around the Loan Council on one remarkable occasion. 
-That is right. A moment ago I spoke of the reason why the deficit has blown out and I pointed to the lack of government revenue- a lack which has been accentuated by the economic policies that the Government has followed. The Government proposed in its Budget Estimates last year a two per cent increase in employment which perhaps would have helped the economy to some extent had it occurred. But what did happen? Rather than a two per cent increase in employment we now have less people in the work force than there were 12 months ago. The budgetary policy which the Government then put forward is now totally discredited. Unemployment is soaring and consequently people are losing confidence in the economy and are refusing to spend. Of course the economy is winding down. As soon as it starts to wind down, as soon as people stop spending, government revenue goes down too. If people are not buying anything there is no sales tax coming to the Government. If people stop buying imported goods the amount of revenue gained from customs duty goes down. When people are unemployed- and more people are becoming unemployed every day- payasyouearn tax collections go down. This has meant that we now have $ 1,000m less in Government revenue than the Government anticipated, and this is the reason for the Government seeking an expansion in its loan capacity. 
The Government wants the right to borrow more money. We do not altogether disagree with a higher deficit if it is incurred for the right purposes. Our feeling is that the programs which the 
Government has adopted have all been back to front. Of course we would not disagree with an increase in the deficit if Commonwealth funds were being injected into the economy to get people back to work. It is a very simple fact that the governments, both State and Commonwealth, are the biggest spenders in the nation. If money is not made available on a federal basis for both federal and State works, of course the economy will wind down. We will then find that the situation into which the Government has locked us at present will get worse. The Government just does not seem to have any positive moves in mind to correct the situation. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  referred to a speech made by the suspended Minister for Finance,  Mr Eric  Robinson, to the Australian Finance Conference last night in Sydney. I shall quote one of  Mr Robinson's  gems: 
The Government is determined to reduce the rate of government spending and return confidence and command over resources to the private sector. 
If ever there were a policy calculated to make our economy go further into recession, then this is it, because the biggest spender in Australia is the Government. If the Government is going to reduce its level of government expenditure, there are few areas in which it can do so. It must, for example, make cuts to the social security area. I have no doubt that that is a possibility. I have seen canvassed in responsible newspapers the argument that the Government is thinking of imposing once again the means test on age pensioners over 70. Also, if the Federal Government cuts funds to the State governments, that will increase the level of unemployment. Every person we put out of work will decrease the level of the economy even further. 
It is time that the Government realised that its policies are not working, that they are sending us back into the dark ages. It is time that the Government realised that all the experts around the world who are calling on a greater infusion of government spending into the economies of the world are giving correct advice. The sooner this Government is prepared to accept that advice, to reverse its paranoia with inflation, to reverse its paranoia with the deficit, and to get on with the matter at hand- the matter of injecting confidence into the economy- the sooner we will be able to correct our situation. 
We expect the people of Australia to have confidence in their own country. How can we expect this if the Government does not give the lead? The Government should be in the position to say: 'Come on', not 'Go on'. Let the Government exhibit confidence in Australia's future. Our resources are unbounded. Why will the Government not invest in our future, invest in the future of the young Australian unemployed and inject some money into the economy so that the unemployed people can go back to work, so that the economy will start to pick up, so that confidence will be restored, so that consumers will start to buy and so that the revenue that should come to government will do so? We then would not be faced with the increasing demands from government to borrow to cover a deficit. 
If the Government were borrowing to cover a deficit produced for reasons that I have just outlined- if it were injecting that money into the revenue, thereby increasing the deficit- we would not mind supporting the Government's moves. While the Government adopts such outmoded, dark ages policies, we find it hard to support the Government I support the amendment made by the honourable member for Gellibrand, which seeks to add these words: 
Whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that the substantial increase of the deficit above its budgeted level is evidence of the failure of the Government's budgetary policy and calls on the Government to adopt policies which will generate economic recovery. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-by leaveThe Defence Service Homes scheme has been operating almost 60 years. It began in 1919. Thus its operation spans two world wars and several smaller wars. Defence Service homes benefits have thus applied to serving members of the forces for more than half a century as part of repatriation benefits. Basically, the scheme helps eligible persons to finance a home. Housing loans of up to $15,000 at low interest rates- 4.5 per cent- are made available under the scheme. The scheme is expensive, as well as being worthy. In 1977-78 the scheme will cost $130m, that figure including $16m in administration costs. It seems that the administration costs represent more than 10 per cent of the total value of loans. Also it seems that such funds will be needed permanently. 
Therefore the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure has examined primarily whether there is a better way of giving these benefits than by making loans at concessional rates and, secondly, whether there is a way of administering the scheme more economically. The Government wants to reward war veterans. It wants to attract suitable people into the Services, and it wants to compensate servicemen and servicewomen for the difficulties which their jobs may impose on them in relation to housing. The basic question is how that can best be done. Why do we not make a cash grant instead of a loan at cheap interest rates? After detailed examination of the possibilities and problems, the Committee found that an optional grant was feasible; that is, any eligible person could choose between a loan and a grant. Our analysis showed that an optional cash grant of about $5,500 is equivalent to the maximum concessional interest loan of $15,000. The Committee has thus recommended that this option be made available, particularly since a grant scheme will cost very little to run and will certainly cost very much less to administer than the loans system. Considerable savings to taxpayers in the form of reduced administration costs should result from this. 
In regard to the administration of the loans system, we found that there is room for improvement. We concluded that the staff should be better rationalised. We believe also that further savings of up to $ 1 m a year can be made by improving the system of collecting repayments from borrowers. The details of this have still to be worked out. Basically it seems that it would be cheaper to take away from Australia Post the facility to collect repayments because it is now receiving $1.6m a year for carrying out that task. We suggest also that the Auditor-General should conduct a review of the efficiency or otherwise of the Defence Service homes scheme, for instance, in 1 979-80. Also the annual report on the scheme should, we feel, contain efficiency ratings which will help in oversight of the scheme. 
The inquiry has been a bipartisan one. I agree with the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  when he says that there was an atmosphere of great co-operation in the Committee's work. I conclude by saying that as a new member of this House I found great stimulation in taking part in the work of this inquiry. I consider that the findings of the Expenditure Committee being implemented or at least recognised would add greatly to the effectiveness of this very laudable scheme. I pay tribute to my fellow Committee members and the Committee staff, and I pay particular tribute to our  Chairman,  the honourable member for Lilley, for his gentle guidance. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Is it true, as claimed by pharmacists, that the Minister's Department will announce, even before the next Budget, an increase in patient contributions for pharmaceutical benefits? Is he aware that this would be a severe extra burden on the sick and the poor, especially where these two categories are combined in large families? 
-by leave- The inquiry by a sub-committee of the Standing Committee on Expenditure into the Northern Territory forestry program was instigated by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  when he was a member of the Expenditure Committee.  Dr Jenkins  had noticed some figures on projected timber production released by the Department of the Northern Territory and fortunately questioned the inaccuracy. Thus began the job of untangling a complex net of deceit which led to the disastrous story that the Committee's report uncovers. The forestry scheme was based on a false premise which originated in 1959. 'O, what a tangled web we weave, when first we practise to deceive! ' So said the great Scottish writer. How true it is. This expose of government inefficiency should be a salutary warning to honourable members and Ministers as to how governments can be effectively snowed by devious officials. 
The original Cabinet submission in 1959 was born out of an exaggerated assessment of the Territory's forestry potential made by people who were either patently dishonest or blatantly lacking the professional expertise they were alleged to possess. The error was probably a combination of the two conditions, that is, poor professional advice provided by mediocre foresters with a more than acute sense of potential empire building and the attendant perks of such attainment. Over the years this web of deception and/or ignorance, inexcusable from highly paid people described as experts, has been allowed to spread until the pathetic situation revealed by our inquiry 20 years later was ultimately reached. 
The sub-committee, on its visit to the Northern Territory, was not only appalled by what it found, but even more appalled by what it did not find. The forestry expert,  Mr Kel  McGrath, attached to the Committee, spent days in the forestry areas looking for what he aptly described as the mythical tree'- even one worth cutting down. The professional sense of  Mr McGrath,  a world-renowned forester, was assailed and offended by what the department was exhibiting as its precious resource. The native eucalypts have practically no commercial value and the pine plantations exhibit growth rates well below accepted levels. 
The scheme was originally set up with these high sounding ideals: ( 1 ) preserving the natural resource; (2) providing useful employment for Aborigines; and (3) conserving the soil, water and wildlife. On every count it has been a splendid failure. 
In 1955 a report was published which stated in unequivocal terms the limitations to forestry development in the Northern Territory. This report was a realistic assessment of the Northern Territory forestry resources and their little potential for development; it gave due recognition to the realities of the Northern Territory environment. Despite the truth of this report, a large forestry organisation was developed. The organisation was significant in terms of Northern Territory expenditure and personnel employed. It completely overshadowed the meagre forestry resource. The forest itself had always offered mute protest. Despite paper expectations and people's opinions, it remained as it was and will always be- a very poor and primitive resource. 
The simple figures of this 1955 report illustrate the overstatement of the department 's view of its resources. For example, the Maningrida area had, according to the department, a projected output of 2,245 super feet per acre. The real production was accurately nominated by the 1955 report as 100 super feet per acre. That was just a nice little overstatement of 2, 1 45 per cent. 
Let me cite a few of the Committee's interesting figures. The report will indicate to any honourable member who reads it that the total cost of the scheme is somewhere over $30m. The Department of Aboriginal Affairs admits to spending since 1971 $870,000 for Aboriginal enterprises in forestry. The total return has been $33,000. In Umbakumba, $45,000 was spent with no return. In Maningrida, $370,000 was spent in 1975-76 for a return of$l,500-and that does not include a quarter of a million dollars spent on a defunct sawmill which has been inoperative for three years and lying rusty. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation Division of Forest Research spent $948,000 in less than three years on  Forest  research with such significant lack of results that it is now withdrawing completely from the Northern Territory. 
One of the answers to the sub-committee's questionnaire suggested that surveyed areas of natural timber on Melville Island totalled 695,000 hectares, but the total area of Melville Island is under 570,000 hectares, so I assume they were going to plant trees in the seamangrove forests perhaps. These overstatements are typical of the whole false rationale on which the scheme was formulated and, for 20 years unfortunately, fuelled with federal funds. No real evaluation was ever made of the inhibiting local environment. The very real problems of the natural hazards of this harsh area were disregarded. Fire, cyclones, and the alldevouring mastotermes termites are huge problems- overlooked in the inexorable march to a large and grander forestry empire. 
One simple fact emerges. Despite the idealism of the original concept, despite the great efforts over the years of many of the more devoted forestry staff to conquer the myriad of problems, the grand dream is in tatters, an abject failure. The house built on a shifting foundation is about to crumble, as was its pre-determined destiny. Any project based on such unreal assessments must, of its own inherent weakness, crash. What a pity, then, that the assessments made in 1971 by a courageous and outspoken critic of the scheme,  Mr Chris  Lacey, a research forester, were ignored.  Mr Lacey  criticised the resource severely, emphasising its lack of potential for development and the refusal of the hierarchy to accept research data. Evidence given at our inquiry showed that this critical document was suppressed- taken from the department's file and placed in  Mr Lacey  's personal file. I have no doubt that  Mr Lacey's  career since then has suffered as a result of his frankness and honesty in revealing all of the weaknesses inherent in the scheme. The sub-committee's finding have confirmed  Mr Lacey's  assessment of seven years ago as deadly accurate. I would like to go on record as acknowledging not only  Mr Lacey's  courage but also his professional integrity and skill as a first-class forester. I hope that his career prospers from now on. 
Public moneys have been squandered in a cavalier and irresponsible fashion. I hope that the emerging State of the Northern Territory, and its new Legislative Assembly heed the finding of the sub-committee and is able to salvage something from the wreck of this forestry venture. 
In conclusion, may I pay tribute to my fellow sub-committee members, the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  and the  Chairman  of the Expenditure Committee, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  for their responsible and bipartisan attitude to this inquiry. The sub-committee staff,  Mr Bush  and  Mr Nelson,  as well as our forestry expert,  Mr Kel  McGrath, also deserve the highest praise for their ready co-operation and expertise. Finally, one telling statistic fully illustrates the history of this ill-conceived and disastrous venture. The department, in 1974 informed the Forwood Conference that the anticipated production of hardwood sawlogs in the Territory in 1980 would be 58,000 cubic metres. Despite criticism from foresters this figure, for 1980 production, was raised again in 1977 to 82,000 cubic metres. The Committee is now informed that the figures has been revised in 1 978 to zero. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware of the disruptive tactics adopted by his Department following the decision of the High Court of Australia in favour of AUS Student Travel Service Pty Ltd operating charter flights to and from Australia? Will the Minister assure the House that pending further hearings, licences issued under section 14 of the Air Navigation Act for charter flights are issued in time for the flights to operate on schedule so as not to cause unnecessary hardship to Australian travellers both here and abroad? 
-As an alderman of the Parramatta City 
Council, I am very disturbed by the shrinkage in the percentage of the personal income tax levied by the Federal Government and transferred to local government. 
-Don't you believe it! Contrary to the popular mythology surrounding Commonwealth payments to local government, grants will have shown a real decline for the third year in succession at the end of this year when measured by the 1975 experience. That rather puts to sleep the theories oft propounded by honourable members on the Government side that grants to local government have kept pace. They have not kept pace. They have gone backwards. As an alderman I know that probably better than honourable members opposite do. This situation appears to be ignored by the Commonwealth Government which has often reiterated its commitment to continued financial support. 
The 1978 Federal Budget is a critical one for local government. The real decline in Commonwealth funding, compounded by the restraint in rate collection which local government at the request of the Commonwealth has adopted, has resulted in an unavoidable and increasing gap between revenue and expenditure. The Fraser Government has promised to increase the share of personal income tax to 2 per cent during the life of the current Parliament. I quote from the policy speech delivered by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in 1977. This is one of the many unfulfilled promises: 
A further increase of united grants to local councils is planned for the benefit of local ratepayers. The Government's objective is to move towards an allocation of up to 2 per cent of personal income tax collection for local governments. 
The truth is that that has not happened. If grants increased to 2 per cent we would be very pleased but this would be too little too late. The 2 per cent is needed now if the services delivered to people direct by local government are not to be diminished. 
Local government also requires a definitive statement that this tax share will be coupled with additional full compensation for any further loss of specific purpose grants. Actually, the 2 per cent requested is a very modest amount. A new public finance study identifies an expenditure sharefall in local government for the current financial year of 4.3 per cent of income tax. Local government recognises that the present national economic situation is such that it cannot expect more than 2 per cent in the forthcoming Budget. 
However, the case for the immediate implementation of the Government's promise of 2 percent is totally irrefutable. 
I think it is important to look at the categories of service delivered by local government throughout the nation. They include public works and services, recreation facilities, council properties, car parking, health and welfare, fire prevention, town planning, inspection licensing, tourist promotion, libraries, et cetera.  Sir Billy  Snedden who is not exactly an unimportant authority said at a  meeting  of local government councillors in Melbourne in 1974: 
The rating system not being a growth tax offers little flexibility in endeavouring to match the current substantial cost increases. In fact many councils have reached saturation point in their rating capacity. 
I am sure that all of us as ratepayers will agree with that. It is unreasonbale to expect property owners to bear the full burden of people related services. Local government is facing a new era of demands for increased and new services. These new demands have far outstripped local government's ability to pay. The situation is critical. In the last year of Labor's administration in 1 975 it made 2.89 per cent of income tax available to local government. All we are asking on behalf of local government is for the availability of 2 per cent of tax revenue to local councils- the most direct instrument of government in the nation. That figure of 2.89 per cent included funds allocated for the Regional Employment Development scheme. If we take the component for the oft-condemned RED scheme away from the grants to local government, the proportion is still 2.34 per cent of the previous year's income tax revenue. I do not think it is unreasonable to ask the Government to think about giving local government a 2 per cent share. We are all ratepayers. We all put our garbage bins out each week. I guess we all wonder how the council do the work they do for the money we give them. 
-The honourable member is very lucky. We put ours out twice a week in Parramatta but we are one of the most advanced and forward thinking councils. I suggest that the Government should immediately implement a scheme whereby 2 per cent of tax revenue this year will be transferred to local government so that it can get on with its job. I am sure that it is a job we all appreciate. 
I thought that we would never debate the Pig Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill. It was introduced in May and here we are talking about it tonight in August. I suppose that the Bill is more important now, given the prolific nature of pigs. The pig population has probably doubled in that time. The Opposition supports the Bill. I guess that only the pigs do not support it. 
The effect of the Bill is to increase the maximum rate of the levy payable by the pig industry for each pig slaughtered for human consumption. It should be stressed that the operative rate of the levy is determined by regulation. At present the levy rates are 8c per head for research and 5c per head for promotion. Should this Bill be carried, the maximum research levy will be raised from 10c per head to 20c per head for each pig slaughtered and the promotion levy will be increased from 5c per head to 20c per head for each pig slaughtered. 
The Opposition will support any move to enhance the financing and promotion of pig products; so it supports the BUI. But there are several areas in which the performance of the Government and, in particular, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in regard to the pig industry warrants criticism. It is interesting to reflect on the effect office has had on the views of the Minister for Primary Industry concerning this matter. Two and a half years ago- in April 1975, to be precise- the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  made some carping criticisms of the then Government's proposals when similar Bills were debated in the House. On that occasion,  Mr Sinclair  stated his opposition to the principle of the Government collecting a levy for promotion purposes from pig producers without the Government contributing an equal amount. The honourable member said: 
When we are re-elected to office we, unlike the Government, will sympathetically consider propositions advanced by industry groups and ensure that if they enter into such proposals they will not be left to carry the burden of the responsibility for research and promotion. 
This proposal went against the recommendation of the  president  of the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Federation,  Mr Campbell,  who said at the time that he believed that the pig industry should provide its own funds for promotion. But that did not stop the present Minister for Primary Industry from attacking the Labor Government over this issue. The fact is that although matching funds are usually provided for research, it has not been a general principle of governments, including this one, to match funds for promotion purposes. As we know from reading the Bills under discussion and the silence of the Minister about his proposal expressed two years ago, there are no moves by the Government to change past practice. Obviously, there is one rule in government and one in Opposition. Another criticism offered of the Pigmeat Promotion Advisory Committee by the honourable member for New England during the debate I have referred to was as follows: 
I personally find it dashed hard to understand why there should be a government representative if the Government is not going to provide money to this Committee. Indeed, the Committee which is being constituted to carry on promotion will be administering funds being provided by the industry. Yet apparently it is to be so constituted that the Government will be in a position, through its exercise of power on the Committee, to direct to a degree where that money is to be spent. If the Government is going to take that sort of stance. I think it has a responsibility to contribute too. 
They were the words of the present Minister in 1975. Yet we still find that a Government representative from the Department of Primary Industry is a member, in fact the  chairman,  of the Pigmeat Promotion Advisory Committee. The other members are a marketing specialist and two members of the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Federation. Obviously, the Minister has changed his mind and yet again eaten his words on the issue. 
Of course, there is a good reason for a skilled public servant advising and assisting the management of this Committee which, after all, has been set up and funded by means of a levy collected by the Government. But such logic completely escaped the Minister for Primary Industry during the debate in April 1975. However, there was one aspect of the speech delivered by the honourable member for New England which I found striking and useful. There is a need for serious rethinking about the role of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation and its endeavours to promote sales overseas. Prior to the setting up of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation, pork was never considered to be meat. It was always considered as a dairy product and did not come under the aegis of the Australian Meat Board. Rather than pig producers competing for overseas sales with the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation, they could more profitably fall under the umbrella of the Corporation itself. I concur with what the honourble member for New England said in this sentence: 
Far more is to be gained by having a total promotion campaign financed jointly, and advocating the different types of meat that can be provided from Australia. 
I am suggesting that the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation, when it is promoting the Australian meat industry overseas, should be promoting not only beef and lamb but also pork. That would be a much more efficient way for the industry to run itself. The major problem for the pig industry is the lack of sales abroad. Japan has sometimes purchased pig meat but only when there has been a shortfall in its own market. Apart from Japan, which has a thriving pig industry already, I can think of few possible overseas markets for pig meat. Hence, sales are almost exclusively confined to the domestic market. But the domestic market, so it would seem, is not about to expand to any great extent. More is the pity. Perhaps this explains the small expenditure on promotion by the Pigmeat Promotion 
Advisory Committee over the past two years. Revenue collected in 1976-77, including penalty payments and interest on investments, amounted to $288,000, whereas expenditure amounted to only $34,000. The financial year of 1975-76 yielded $134,000 in receipts and payments amounted to $23,000. In other words a little over $58,000 or 15 per cent of the total revenue collected had been spent on promotion in those years. 
Unfortunately, there are strong grounds for criticising the second annual report of the Pigmeat Promotion Advisory Committee for the reason that it does not state in detail how its money has been spent. There is a brief, unsatisfactory reference in the Committee's report concerning the so-called superporker and the potential of new pork cuts from this size or type of pig. But it is difficult to assess what is meant by this or how successful those new pork cuts are retailing in butcher's shops because it is not described well or in detail. It is stated on page 4 of the report: 
In co-operation with several supermarket chains, the Committee conducted a small piece of research in April 1977 on housewives' attitudes to the wider variety of pork cuts from the bigger pig and found a relatively high degree of satisfaction compared with declared attitudes to traditional pork cuts in earlier findings. 
Yet nothing appears in this report about the specific results that were provided by the survey work. The size of the survey sample is not even stated. What is meant by 'a relatively high degree of satisfaction' in this context is completely unclear in the absence of any precise information concerning the survey. In my opinion, the Committee's report should have provided more detail and, therefore, would have been far more interesting. 
By way of contrast, the sixth annual report of the Australian Pig Industry Research Committee, which is for the year ended 30 June 1977, is well produced and contains a wealth of information. A precis of scientific projects and the details of the financial payments provided for each research project is stated in the report. Having read this report, however, I am querulous about the merits of the research provided through the auspices of the Australian Pig Industry Research Committee. Research ranges from an evaluation of Australian feedstuffs for pigs, which is important because nutrition affects the colour and flavour of the meat, to a study of leptospirosis in swine. Studies presently are being researched in regard to various diseases contracted by pigs, measures to dispose of and utilise effluent from a piggery as fertiliser, the digestive system of pigs and so on. The total spent in the last financial year was $519,000, which included $159,000 spent on new projects. 
However, the amount of research money being spent on the real problems affecting the pig industry is unjustifiably small. Only about $4,000 is devoted this year to research into polyarthritis, which is the real bane of the pig industry. Condemnations at the slaughter point, either partial or full, due to the incidence of this disease cost the industry millions of dollars annually. In 1973, according to some figures supplied by the postgraduate committee of the Faculty of Veterinary Science at Sydney University, 2 per cent of the pigs slaughtered in New South Wales were condemned either partially or fully in that year. The bulk of these condemnations were directly attributable to poly-arthritis. The cost of this loss in 1978 values- the percentage of casualties has remained constant since- can be expressed in millions of dollars. 
The research being undertaken, whilst admirable in its own way, is not, unfortunately, directed to the main areas of need. The whole problem with the research program is the ad hoc arrangements for disbursing the available funds. The pig producers' councils in each State arrange the research to be undertaken in concert with the various academics and departmental officers who make up the Committee. It is interesting to read the make-up of the Committee. The Committee is made up of 11 members, namely, a chairman appointed by the Commonwealth Department of Primary Industry, six members representing Australian pig producers, two members representing the Australian Agricultural Council and one member each representing the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and Australian universities. The producer representatives are nominated by the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Federation and the others by the respective organisations. 
It would appear to me that the real problem is that the producer members of those organisations are thoroughly snowed by the academics. Every academic has his own pet research project in mind. The academics seem always to have been able to get funds to research their particular pet projects. My studies of the industry over the 20 years in which I have been involved in it leads me to think that no real pattern has been evolved for the use of research money. The sum of $6m has been spent on it in the last decade or even less. I find it hard to see a definite pattern emerging whereby one research project leads to another in a continuing chain at an intelligent level. I think that too much money has been spent in an ad hoc fashion without leading to a definite result. Much of the research undertaken has been financed by way of people taking higher degrees. The papers they have produced probably have been of inestimable value to the industry but they have usually languished on a shelf in a university library and been used only by someone working on a thesis. They are very rarely used in the way of profitable advice to the pig farmers. 
While this has been going on, the Australian pig industry has really kicked on. I would suggest that the type of pig that the Australian pig industry is producing now is the equivalent of any pig in the world. For a long time I have been very interested in the Homebush saleyards, where almost 3,000 pigs are yarded every Tuesday. One would find it hard anywhere in the world to match the quality of the pigs that are available at the Homebush saleyards. That speaks volumes for the industry. I feel that the industry has laboured from the unavailability of a real national pig policy. I think it is time that the Minister for Primary Industry took stock of this fact and decided that the pig industry is big enough and important enough to become a real national issue. 
-That is a different sort of pig. He is an MCP. I could give the House some good examples of how the pig industry has laboured in a haphazard fashion without any real national policy. The pig producers' councils which help to disburse the research funds- the research funds are quite considerable; at least $500,000 a year- are composed only of producers. But producers are only a very small part of the pig industry. In the long run somebody has to turn that pig into money. One would find it very difficult to go to a bank and deposit 10 porkers. The banker wants money. So someone else has to turn the pigs into cash. Certain people in New South Wales are trying to get away from the old-fashioned idea of having pig producers' councils and have formed what they call the New South Wales Pork and Bacon Council. I had the honour to be the original vice-president of that organisation. The original  president  was Peter Budd, the brother-in-law of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  So I am in accord with the Budd family. That organisation got away from the idea of having just producer influence. That body is composed of producers, stud people, stock feed manufacturers, veterinary organisations, wholesale butchers, retail butchers, processors and a whole range of people who are taking pan in the pig industry. I think we have been able to come up with views that are much better oriented than the views solely of producers. Hundreds of thousands of people depend on the pig industry for a living. So it cannot be left in the hands only of producers to make the decisions. I suggest to the Government that organisations like that one should be set up in all States. They should be set up not only in the pig industry but also in the other primary industry areas. The pattern is there to do it in the pig industry. I think that these organisations, in concert with the Department and the academics, could come up with a much more rational way of spending the research money so that the whole industry will prosper from it. 
I mentioned poly-arthritis earlier. Polyarthritis has been responsible for the loss of millions of dollars in the pig industry over the last few years, yet the amount of money to be spent on it out of the $500,000 allocated to research this year is only a lousy $4,000. 1 know of a very big piggery in New South Wales where the condemnation rate for poly-arthritis three or four years ago was 15 per cent of the pigs produced. That was the condemnation rate from one disease- poly-arthritis. A young man in Sydney who is a veterinarian did his thesis on polyarthritis, at great pains to himself. He and his wife and two children struggled along on his resources with a little help from Mayfair's piggery at Menangle and some help from the New South Wales veterinary school at Narellan. The man to whom I am referring is Gary Cross. He has done wonderful research into poly-arthritis. He reached the stage of producing a vaccine which would be a wonderful help to the pig industry generally. I was at that piggery last week. It is using Gary Cross' privately produced vaccine. The amount of poly-arthritis in the piggery has been reduced to a remarkable degree. That is an example of a man who is battling to solve a major problem in the pig industry without any support from the great amount of research funds that are available. This Bill is asking us to double the amount. As a former wholesale butcher who is still active to some extent I am now being asked to pay double the research levy on pigs. I do not mind and the industry does not mind. The people I know in the industry do not mind because they know that it will benefit the industry generally. But we want to see that money spent in a more rational and sensible way. 
Another problem that piggeries face, particularly those in the area that the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  represents, is hydatids. One of the failings of not having a national policy is that hydatids is a dreadful disease. 
-The State policy on hydatids is bad anyhow. Once a farmer is discovered to have hydatids on his property the State Department of Agriculture does not have the legislative power to go into the piggery and close it down to isolate it. The Department can tell the man that he has hydatids on his property but it does not have any power to do anything about it. 
-Because the legislative power just is not there. 
-No, that is not what causes amnesia. It is a different disease that causes amnesia in the Cabinet. Fortunately, given the rigid inspection service that we have in abattoirs, hydatids is not going to be transferred to humans, but the fact that it is on farms is a vital and difficult problem. Usually it is occasioned by dirty farm premises, by dogs being fed hot offal. It would be a very simple matter to get rid of hydatids if we had the power to get the veterinarians in to do it. I think that is a very good reason for having a national policy, for having the pig industry taken over on a national basis by the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. It is a huge industry that now is not being run properly, and I think it should be. 
Turning to promotion, not much happened until 1977; but in the last year the Pig Promotion Council has employed a man called John Creagh, who is an advertising expert. He has spent a good deal of the Promotion Council's money in the last 12 months on the promotion of the superporker, with some beneficial effects. There has just been a very big advertising campaign in Adelaide, with full page colour advertisements in the newspapers, which succeeded to the extent that the amount of pork sold in a week increased by 400 per cent- something that the Country Party people as well as the producers should be pleased about. I am certainly pleased about it. 
-Not if you have sheep. If we are promoting the eating of meat in Australia, that is to the good of the industry generally. I do not think people in Australia realise how cheap and how good their meat is. They would be astounded if they compared it with meat in overseas countries. Whilst there are plenty of complaints about how dear meat is, people should consider how little the price of meat has increased since the war. Newspapers are always telling us how dear meat is, but a simple graph shows that newspapers cost 2c in 1948 and now cost 15c, which is a 650 per cent increase, whereas the increase in meat prices in that period has probably been of the order of 1 50 per cent. So we have a pretty good case to put up on behalf of the meat industry. 
Let me get back to the Australian Labor Party's view. We do not object to the Bill. What we do object to is the way the money is being spent. We support the fact that the levy is being doubled. We are happy to support the Government in its objective, but I would like the Minister and the Government to take heed of the things I have said. I think they are fairly reasonable and rational. There is a need for a national policy for the pig industry. It is a very big industry and many people are getting their living from it. I believe that the Australian pig industry can hold its head high. The quality of product being produced and the efficiency being displayed by the industry are of world standard. We do not object to the levy being doubled, but we do object to the way the money is being spent. 
In my capacity as an alderman of the Parramatta City Council I had the opportunity on Saturday to be given a tour of the Westmead Teaching Hospital. With the recent retirement from this House of  Mr E.  G. Whitlam I would like to take the opportunity of putting on the record the great debt which I believe the people in my electorate and those adjoining such as Mitchell, Prospect, Werriwa, Reid, Dundas and Chifley owe to our former Prime Minister in bringing about the great concept of the Westmead Teaching Hospital. Perhaps the best way to start is by telling the House how deprived this area has traditionally been in regard to hospital services. There were, it is true, several district hospitals operating in the Western Suburbs of Sydney but these were extremely limited not only in bed capacity but more seriously in their ability to provide diagnostic services, intensive care and specialised treatment. Today's medicine requires the highest degree of sophisticated medical technology. Only the large teaching hospitals are equipped with the staff and machinery to provide this treatment. Patients requiring such treatment, if they are living in the Western Suburbs- I would like to point out that there are more people living in Sydney west of Granville than are living in the whole of South Australiahave to travel many miles to obtain the necessary care. 
Perhaps the greatest area of hardship has been the fact that we in this area have had no specialised pediatric hospital. Forty per cent of all admissions to the Princess Alexandra Hospital at Camperdown are children from the outer Western Suburbs. As you can imagine,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  this causes great problems because in an emergency parents with sick children have to travel many miles in heavy traffic to seek the proper medical treatment. Also, because hospitalisation of young children necessarily involves parents staying with the children, it has required a great deal of travelling backwards and forwards from hospitals. This has added greatly to the burden. The highest concentration of children is in the outer Western Suburbs. This is obviously where the facilities and the specialists were most desperately needed. It will be Gough Whitlam 's apotheosis that he perceived so clearly the neglect of the population in Sydney's outer suburbs and that he took such giant strides towards redressing this imbalance. Westmead Hospital is the largest medical complex under construction in the world. It will contain a full teaching dental hospital with 250 chairs, and cardiovascular operating units comparable with anything of their kind in the world. The first intake of patients will commence on 30 October with an estimated bed capacity of 925 by 1981. The outpatients clinics and emergency wards will commence operation next year with many specialist clinics operating for outpatients. 
I have only begun to touch on the exciting aspects of the Westmead teaching hospital. Time will not allow me to do it justice. It is a magnificent, sophisticated complex. It is a magnificent vision and worthy of the man who thought of it. If all things under heaven were fair it would be called the E. G. Whitlam hospital. It is a strange thing that a large percentage of the population rail against what they call 'socialism ' and yet I do not hear any voices raised in protest against the Westmead teaching hospital- a most perfect example of socialist planning. Believe me, no private business group could undertake such a gigantic enterprise. Only governments can cope with the immensity of such projects. 
In claiming the Westmead teaching hospital as one of Gough Whitlam 's greatest achievements I need to remind the House of the somewhat turbulent history which has surrounded the hospital. It was one of the many election promises which I believe gave the Australian Labor Party its victory in 1972. In the first Labor Budget $9m was allocated to New South Wales so that building could commence. However, the then Liberal Premier procrastinated and refused to use the money for this purpose. It was only under threat from Gough Whitlam that the grant would be withdrawn that the New South Wales Government started the works program. On behalf of the people who live in the Parramatta electorate I wish to acknowledge the great debt we owe to Gough Whitlam, to the vision splendid that was his and to the determination and courage with which he followed it through. 
No government since Federation has revealed in such a short time so many unpleasant characteristics lacking in any constructive or redeeming contributions to the life of this nation as this Fraser Government. Let me deal briefly with three of the more unpleasant of these characteristics revealed so clearly in the Budget Papers we are now discussing. I refer to, firstly, the Government's complete incapacity for honesty; secondly, its insensitivity to the point of inhumanity in its dealings with the less fortunate sectors of the community; and, thirdly, its complete incompetence in handling the nation's affairs, particularly the nation 's economic affairs. 
The essential dishonesty of the Government, if it were not already evident, has been highlighted by the recent performances of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Election promises have no validity when uttered by the present Prime Minister. Taxes were to come down. Remember the disgraceful appeal to base avarice of the fistful of dollars? Taxes did come down, for a few months until the election was over. They are now back higher than they were in the first place. 
It is an unfair Budget because it reduces the income and living standards of those earning less than the average wage to a greater extent than those on higher than average wages. The increase in taxation from November this year for those earning less than $250 a week will be 8 per cent but for people earning more than $250 a week the percentage increase in taxation steadily declines. The increase in taxation for the Prime Minister, for instance, who earns $1,500 a week is less than 5 per cent. Let me take as an example the average worker who earns around $200 per week. These workers will pay an average of $1.80 a week more for petrol. They will pay an average of $2 more for cigarettes and drink. 
-Every cent I am entitled to, thank you very much. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! There is too much conversation in the House. Would honourable members please give the honourable member for Parramatta the courtesy that the House requires. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  They will pay an average of $1.50 a week more for clothing and footwear. They will pay $3.20 a week more in increased taxation. If buying their own home, the cost of taxation deductions for mortgage repayments will be $3.50 a week. This means that an average worker will pay $12 a week more out of earnings than he did before this unjust and mean Budget was brought to light. 
Medibank is another example of the Prime Minister's lack of honesty. The promise to maintain Medibank was a base and convenient lie. We were promised that the means test on pensions would be abolished and that their real value would be maintained. Now the means test for pensioners over 70 years of age is to be restored. What could be meaner than this? We have the retreat to annual indexation for pensioners generally and the abolition of indexation totally for single people in receipt of the unemployment benefit. 
The Government's cavalier disregard for the truth extends not only to its hollow election promises but also to the very mathematics of the Budget figures. They are obviously rigged. For example, the estimate for the unemployment benefit is down from last year by $ 10m although the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has already conceded that the level of unemployment will rise by 25,000. This is, of course, a wildly optimistic assessment of the likely rise. The latest figuresthe figures which this Government  Tikesproduced  by the Australian Bureau of Statistics show a rise of 50,000 in the number of unemployed people in the last year. Who on earth would consider it would be less than that this year? 
The stock market and the investors have reacted in a predictable fashion to the promise of a reduced deficit and the holding down of interest rates which this implies. It is only a matter of time before these people discover that this year's calculations are as wildly astray as last year's and the deficit will blow out again. Then they will discover that they have been seduced like the rest of the community only to be abandoned by this congenitally dishonest Government. I wonder whether they will be dancing in the street at the end of the financial year? I fancy otherwise. 
This Budget is aimed in a most inhumane fashion at those least able to afford new impositions. As evidence of its all-pervasive cruelty, the Government has imposed on these people new and regressive taxes, crippling new charges on lump sum leave payments, the abolition of the maternity allowance, the destruction of the concept of universal health and massive reductions in welfare housing. It has also made petty and mean spirited changes to the social service benefits available to people such as accident victims undergoing rehabilitation and even tuberculosis sufferers. But even more important than any of these measures in demonstrating the sheer callousness of the Government is its attitude to unemployment which is absolutely clear. It is: The unemployed are in that position either because they do not want to work or because they just represent the price which has to be paid to fulfil the Government 's paranoia in having the inflation rate reduced. 
The thought that everyone of those unemployed persons is not just a statistic but a human being who is depressed, despairing and fast losing every shred of dignity and self-confidence he or she once possessed, does not seem to have occurred to the Government. The unemployed receive no fringe benefits. They can earn only $6 a week before financial penalty is imposed and they have no entitlement to supplementary rent allowance. Their expenses are greater in many cases because they have transport, postal and clothing costs in connection with their search for work. There is no justification for this situation and the Government is not even trying to provide one for treating them in a worse fashion than it treats other beneficiaries and pensioners. This is a cruel attack on their precarious financial situation and self-esteem. 
Those under 1 8 years of age who are on unemployment benefit are still entitled to only $36 a week. This amount has not been raised since April 1975 and it has lost 50 per cent of its value in that time. There are 55,000 young people under 18 years of age trying to exist on this amount while they look for work. This is particularly hard on the young of the poor and rural families who have left home looking for jobs. Also, 8,000 people under 18 years of age have been on unemployment benefit for more than six months. There may still be a few hardened souls left who would be prepared to accept this Government's cynicism and hypocrisy if they could be persuaded that these harsh measures were necessary to revive our flagging economy. But is there anyone left in Australia who believes this story? The Prime Minister has been telling us with nauseating repetitiveness that inflation is coming down. But where is the promised recovery? Real wages have declined. Living standards have retreated. Unemployment increases constantly. But where is the promised recovery? It is nowhere to be seen. 
The Budget does not reveal one measure or program to stimulate recovery in the economy or one measure designed to correct unemployment. In fact, the Budget acknowledged that unemployment would rise and it ensured that it would, by cutting back, by 10 per cent, that is in real terms, on the level of public spending. In one area alone, for instance the building and construction industry, it is estimated that this move will cost 28,000 jobs. But that is just another line in this Government's catalogue of despair which it terms a Budget. Meanness, pettiness and bloody-mindedness are the hallmarks of this Budget. There is something pathetic about a government which sinks to the level of taxing pensions paid to all sorts of underprivileged and handicapped people. 
The allowance paid to rehabilitees and handicapped persons working in sheltered workshops, numbering fewer than 10,000, for the first time in history will be taxed as will the livingawayfromhome allowance and the incentive allowance paid to rehabilitation trainees. This is a very mean measure which will have serious consequences for some of the most disadvantaged recipients of social welfare payments in Australia. For many it will destroy incentive and independence. It will force others back into institutions. 
Nobody will convince me that, despite the announcement made by the Treasurer last Thursday, exempting the blind from the taxation provisions of this miserable Budget, the Government did not have in mind to tax the working recipients of the blind pension. It was only the public uproar which this provision created which caused the Treasurer to make that statement. I ask honourable members to imagine a government wanting to force the blind people of this country back on to the verandahs and away from the work force which they joined after years of hard and intensive training. 
But all the issues I have mentioned apart, the most baffling part of the whole Budget is the total lack of good and sound basic business principles it espouses. For an economic statement emanating from a political party which allegedly is the traditional business party, it is devoid of any real business philosophy. Even the most elementary examination of Australia's economic malaise would indicate the need for a consumerled recovery. This is something which my Party has been espousing over the full period of the Government's reign. Yet the sections of the community most likely to spend their incomes are the sections which are most deprived by the Budget of the necessary spending ammunition, and that is some money. People at the top of the scale spend any increase in available funds on imported luxuries such as continental cars, overseas holidays or, alternatively, they save their increased earnings. People at the other end of the spectrum- that is the low income earners and pensioners- tend to spend immediately any increase in income in Australia on Australian goods and services. Yet these are the people who have their available cash most reduced by the ramifications of this Budget. 
In my electorate of Parramatta there is a living- or should I say dying- example of this Government's lack of a real business philosophy. In the Whitlam years the Government purchased a block of land for $5m in the city of Parramatta to build a Commonwealth centre with a view to housing 6,000 public servants. This was the first plank in a decentralisation policy to enable people to work near where they lived and to save the overtaxing of services in the capital city of Sydney. 
-Of course the Government scrubbed that in 1975. That was the first thing it did when it came to power. It is a fair measure of the Government's lack of business ability that it did that. But that is no wonder  when one looks at the Cabinet which is almost totally composed of graziers. We all know about graziers and their great lack of business ability. They belong to the most inefficient industry in Australia. They are the people who decry any form of socialism and yet they practise it almost totally in relation to rural industries. We know their philosophy. It is: Socialise the losses and capitalise the gains. That situation is fairly evident when one looks at the total lack of business principles those honourable members espouse. Work was begun on the Parramatta site and a public inquiry was instituted under the chairmanship of my colleague the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  It is very interesting to look at some of the findings of this inquiry: One finding states: 
Apart from the physical advantages to the Government in owning its office accommodation, recent studies have demonstrated that it is generally more economical to own office accommodation than to lease equivalent privately owned space. The costs of building and operating the proposed office complex compare favourably with the cost of leasing equivalent accommodation constructed under similar economic conditions. 
I ask honourable members to listen to the next finding which states: 
The Committee were advised that based on a conservative estimated rental figure of $12 per square foot per annum to lease accommodation by 1980, the annual savings from construction rather than leasing would result in a return to the Government in excess of 16 per cent. On this basis, it is expected that the Australian Government would recoup the initial capital investment in the office towers of the proposed Australian Government Centre in nine years. 
I ask: What other business in Australia would have an opportunity to build a building and be able to amortise totally within 10 years? But honourable members on the Government side are so stupid and so lacking in business principles that they would not realise the value of being able to do that. Honourable members are so used to subsidising themselves that they would not realise what a wonderful business proposition this is. I tell honourable members that in 1975 a total of 316,000 square metres of office space was occupied by the Austrlaian Public Service in Sydney. More than 229,000 square metres, or about 72 per cent, was leased at an annual rental of $13m. Of course the Government does not want to build the building because it is leasing space off Mainline, the crash company, the Lend Lease company, other great multinationals and the huge wealthy landlords who support the Government. 
Of course the Government does not want to build its own accommodation and so put public servants in accommodation owned by the people. It would prefer to pay rent to the companies 
I have mentioned. I ask honourable members to think about the situation. Here is an opportunity for the Government to invest- I guess in 1978 figures- $60m and to recoup the lot within 10 years. The argument the Government has put against that suggestion is that that amount would increase the deficit. But what sort of business principle is that? If any honourable member on the Government side has been in business he would know that if he were to build an asset it would not go into the liability column. But honourable members say: 'It would cost us $60m to build that building and that would increase the deficit. Therefore the proposition is bad'. I put it to honourable members that that proposition is not bad, but that it is good. Once having spent the $60m the nation would then own a $60m building which would enable from 4,500 to 6,000 public servants to work where they live, with all the consequent social advantages. But more importantly it would enable the Australian people to own a $60m asset right where it should be and that is in the western suburbs of Sydney where people live. 
At the moment in Parramatta we have 13 Commonwealth departments in rented space such as the Department of Health, the Australian Electoral Office, the Commonwealth Employment Service, the Bureau of Customs, the Family Court, the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, two Medibank offices, an office of Qantas Airways Ltd, two social security offices, a branch of the Taxation Office with 1,000 people working in rented space and Telecom Australia. All these people should be working in an office owned by the Australian Government and by the Australian people. Instead we are providing rich landlords with millions of dollars a year in rent. I say again that it is a fair example of the total lack of any business expertise on the Government side of the House if honourable members opposite cannot see the value of that proposal. Why do they not wake up to themselves? If they did the people of Australia might support them and Australia would get back on the road so far as the economics of this nation are concerned. 
It is rather surprising, the apple industry in Tasmania having experienced one good year- last year- in spite of many years of hardship, that the member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  wants to revert to the evils of the past. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier  ) put: 
That the question be now put. 
-A couple of comments made by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  are worthy of note. The Opposition does not claim that unemployment is a phenomenon which arrived with the Liberal Government. The Opposition realises that we had unemployment and inflation from 1972 to 1975; but it is time the people of Australia realised, it is time this Government admitted, that it was a worldwide phenomenon, that it affected every country in the Western world. This Government was elected in 1975 on a promise to remove unemployment from the Australian scene. Amongst all the governments of the Western world it is the one that has failed singularly to do just that. Having said that, let me return to the matter of public importance, which concerns the confusing and conflicting statements by the Government on unemployment prospects. At last the Government has come clean. At last a responsible Minister has crawled from beneath the veil of deception with which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has cloaked public affairs in Australia over the last three years. At long last we have received from the Government an honest assessment regarding unemployment in Australia and the future prospects for employment. 
The Labor Party has recognised the problems of continuing unemployment patterns over recent years and has constantly entreated the Government to do likewise. My colleague the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  has spoken on this subject in this House on many occasions. He has written a very interesting paper on it. I refer members of the Government and the public to an article which appeared in the  Australian  on 9 September on the paper written by the honourable member for Lalor on postindustrialism and job absorption. I suggest that members of the Government, who have constantly ridiculed the honourable member for 
Lalor when he has made these statements because they do not understand what he is talking about, read this article. They may learn something. There is a depth of thought in his statements which points up the deep problem represented by unemployment in Australia. 
In the 1977 election campaign we as an Opposition did our best to persuade the Australian people to see beyond the convenient and hollow promises of the Prime Minister made in that infamous policy speech, now revealed as a litany of empty rhetoric and base deception. The Prime Minister said, and I think it is worth quoting - 
-I did. The Prime Minister said: 
Because of our job assistance strategy, because of the growth and development our policies have made possible, unemployment will fall from February and keep falling. It is Labor that is the party of unemployment. 
As each month since then has shown a continuing rise in unemployment from the previous month's figures, the Government has maintained that it was a temporary aberration. Finally, last Thursday in this House the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  to his credit- albeit belated creditadmitted that unemployment would rise rather than fall in the future. He said that there appeared to be little likelihood of any significant increase in jobs in most areas of employment. 
The former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  was more specific and said that unemployment in Australia would increase by 80,000 by next February. Unfortunately, on this side of the House, without any desire to be prophets of doom, we must agree with that assessment. Last Thursday the Minister broke the great conspiracy of silence within the Fraser Government by telling the truth about unemployment. The Minister's assumptions, which I hasten to say are very optimistic assumptions that in five years rime unemployment will still be intolerably high- he was speaking about a figure of the order of 5 per cent- fly directly in the face of the humbug statements the Prime Minister has been making on this subject for the past three years. The Minister's statement has vast political implications. From here on in it will be very awkward for honourable members opposite, for the Government, to talk in optimistic terms about unemployment. The Minister responsible is now on the public record as saying that employment prospects will deteriorate even further in the future. 

 His statement has also blown the gaff on what has been known in Australia as the dole bludger syndrome. This insulting, denigrating and insidious term was spawned and nurtured by this Government to cover its own deficiencies. It was a cheap form of political rhetoric to excuse the Government from responsibility for unemployment. Its impact on the social fabric, particularly for Australia's unemployed youth, is insidious. The shame of being called a dole bludger has destroyed the confidence and self-respect of thousands of decent young Australians battling honestly and diligently to obtain a decent job. Parramatta Council, of which I am an alderman, advertised a few months ago for 10 apprentices. Three hundred kids turned up to get those jobs. Kids who want to become apprentices are not kids who want to be dole bludgers. They are kids who want to train to do a responsible job in the future. They are the sort of people about whom we over here are thinking. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  quoted the figures for youth unemployment in Australia. In the IS to 19 years age group the figure is about 17 per cent. In my electorate it is probably more like 25 per cent. The Government not only makes confusing and conflicting statements about unemployment but in my electorate further compounds the problem by not even providing decent conditions for the unemployed seeking jobs and help. Despite the best intentions of the devoted and concerned staff, the Commonwealth Employment Service office is totally inadequate to cope with an enlarging problem. One finds kids six and seven deep at a counter about five feet long, with no privacy when they try to seek help from the counsellors. One finds kids queueing up in the corridors to try to get a cheque. The Government should be ashamed of its efforts in this area. These conditions only harden the conviction of the unemployed that the Government sees them as people who do not want to work, as dole bludgers. 
Last week the Minister dragged a reluctant Prime Minister down an unfamiliar path. The Prime Minister, as his record shows, has a great disaffinity with the truth. Let us hope that the Minister's frank admission of the Government's failure to come to grips with the gravest social and human problem facing Australia will not see another retreat into a conspiracy to deceive. The Labor Party, under its present Leader, has been on the right track with its social and economic policies. Hopefully for Australia's great army of unemployed, the Fraser Government may dramatically shift camp and come up with some humane policies to restore employment opportunities for all Australians. 
In a similar debate in this House last week my colleague the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  invited, in fact challenged, the Government to come to the western areas of Sydney, to look at the situation in Blacktown, Parramatta, Liverpool, Fairfield and Mount Druitt, to see the despair of kids out there who are trying to get a job. Government members should find out whether the unemployed in those areas are impressed with the Prime Minister's statements about unemployment starting to fall in February and continuing to do so. That is a fairy story, a sick joke- sick because the Prime Minister knew it to be false when he said it. But in typical fashion he used the expedient he to deceive the public. The only thing falling in those areas is people's hopes. Their expectations and confidence in the future are being destroyed. The Werriwa by-election on Saturday will be a measure of the feelings of the people in this area. They will show their disdain for the Government by voting overwhelmingly for the Australian Labor Party, the only party which cares for them. 
-The honourable member may well laugh. I suggest he pick up a newspaper on Saturday to see what the electors of Werriwa have to say about the Government. The statement of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations about the seriousness of the Australian unemployment crisis is a dramatic admission of the failure of the Government's economic policies. While the Prime Minister has been denigrating anybody who spoke out against the Government's inhuman and brutish approach to economic management, he has allowed the unemployment situation to grow steadily worse. Once again the Minister has revealed the deception and shortcomings of his leader. The Prime Minister should resign out of respect for the dignity, decency and honesty of our parliamentary system. 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that he said that he had no option but to act on the information revealed by the McGregor Royal Commission. Given this reference to the findings of royal commissions, will the Prime Minister tell the House why he has shown such marked reluctance to acknowledge the validity of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships? Why has he ignored this valuable report except for picking out a few lines and trivializing them for election purposes? 
On 6 April last, I had the unhappy duty to come into this House and report to the House the drowning of two young people in my electorate in a system known as the Toongabbie Creek system. In drawing the attention of the House to the drowning of these two young people I requested the Government to continue a scheme that was started by the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975 to do something about repairing this problem in Parramatta. The Labor Government provided money for the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation to draw up a plan to alleviate the flooding in this creek system. Subsequent to the adjournment debate speech that I made, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  came into the House and read me a lecture for not observing the conventions of the House and warning him about what I was going to say. Strangely enough, I thought that the conventions of the House disappeared somewhat after 1975. But, apart from that, on that day the Minister said to me: 
 I would suggest that he go to the Government of New South Wales, to the appropriate Minister in the Government of New South Wales, and put his case. If he can convince the New South Wales Government that the problem is as bad as he suggests, he will have no difficulty in having that Government give it a high priority in the programs that it will furnish to me for 1978-79. 1 can assure the honourable member that if it has that priority it will be funded. It is as simple as that, because the money is there. 
Subsequent to that, the Minister announced a $200m, five-year program to alleviate flooding in Australia- a flood mitigation program. I was prepared, along with other local members including the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  to accept, if that was the case- we believed it to be the case- that the money might be forthcoming. But yesterday in the House the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Gillard)  asked a question. The Minister for National Development answered it in this way: 
First of all, may I remind honourable members that the Government announced a $200m program for a national water resources program starting this year. In February- I think that this is known to most honourable members- the Prime Minister wrote to all the Premiers inviting them to give us their projects in order of priority. Every State has responded except the State of New South Wales. 
That was picked up by the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  and reported in this way: 
A $200m program which would make some of the State's most dangerous flood areas safer has been temporarily shelved- because the NSW Government has not nominated how it wants to spend its share of the money. 
The National Development Minister,  Mr Newman,  said yesterday that the Commonwealth was ready to allocate funds immediately to NSW for its flood mitigation program. 
This money could be used to reduce the danger of flooding at Toongabbie Creek, he said. 
It went on in a similar vein and finished by saying: 
Federal government officials claim that the Wran Government does not want to offend any groups by leaving them off the priority list . . . 
They claim that  Mr Renshaw  and  Mr Gordon  will delay any announcement until after the State election. 
I felt that that was trivialising a very important human problem. People have drowned in this creek system. I remind the House that this area is only two miles from the demographic centre of one of Australia's great cities. Only two miles from the demographic centre of Sydney, 11 people have drowned in seven years. This is not a small issue. When the Budget was released I searched through the Budget Papers and found that $17.96lm was allocated for water projects this year in payments to the States. Of that $17.961m, over $12m was last year's allocation. There was really only $5m of new money. 
-Yes, for the whole country. I mentioned this to the honourable member for Mitchell. I said that because it was a human issue and people had drowned I did not want to make a political issue of it; that I did not intend to say anything about it in the local Press or locally because I did not want to offend the relatives of people who had drowned therepeople who believed that money was forthcoming to solve the problem. When I find that the Minister is prepared to give this sort of drivel to the House and to have it sensationalised in the Sydney Press, pointing out that the money could be available if" the New South Wales Government gave it priority, I am rather alarmed at his sentiments. 
The point is that New South Wales has only $ lm available this year for flood mitigation programs for the whole of the State. On 30 May the New South Wales Government asked for $360m to alleviate flooding in the State. 
-I refer the Prime Minister to his reply to a question yesterday concerning family trusts, in which he indicated that the abolition of such trusts could affect almost two million people. Does the fact that the latest taxation statistics show that there are 131,000 trusts mean that there are more than 15 members on average in each family taking advantage of trusts? 
-In directing my question to the Minister for Defence I refer to his public statement last Thursday about a discrete mass of plutonium buried at Maralinga. Did the Minister present to Cabinet recently a submission warning of the threat posed by the possible theft by terrorists of this discrete mass of plutonium? Does the Minister accept this advice from his Department? If so, how does he explain today's statement by the British High Commission that the so-called discrete mass of plutonium is buried in six separate steel containers in a concrete lined pit covered with steel plate under hundreds of tons of soil? 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
What is (a) the total office size, (b) the rental cost for (i) the year 1977-78 and (ii) the period 1 July 1978 to date, (c) the administrative costs, and (d) the number of staff temporary and permanent, in occupation of the following Commonwealth offices within the Electoral Division of Parramatta: (A) the Acoustic Laboratory of the Department of Health, 68 Macquarie Street, (B) the Australian Electoral Office, 28 George Street, (C) the Commonwealth Employment Service, 30 Darcy Street, (D) the Bureau of Customs, 30 Darcy Street, (E) the Family Court of Australia, (F) the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, 23 George Street, (G) Medibank, S3 Phillip Street, (H) Medibank, Church Street, (I) Qantas, 20 Macquarie Street, (J) the Department of Social Security, 68 Macquarie Street, (K) the Department of Social Security, Level 6, Westfield Centre, (L) Telecom Australia,5th Floor, 30 Darcy Street and (M) the Taxation Office, 126 Church Street. 
Are there any Commonwealth offices within the Electoral Division of Parramatta not listed in part ( 1 ). 
The matter I wish to raise tonight is of profound importance to every Australian. It concerns two points: The management of our nation's affairs and the credibility of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  For almost three years, this Government has been lying to the people about its economic policies, unemployment, interest rates, the illusion of tax cuts, pensions and the professed concern of the Prime Minister for the average Australian family. Above all, it has been lying about its competence. This Government is an incompetent government. The man who leads it is an incompetent Prime Minister. Its incompetence can be detailed on many grounds but I would need much more time than is available to me tonight to do so. 
I intend to concentrate on one criterion the massive amount of money the Government has borrowed overseas to prop up the Australian dollar. This Government is driving Australia to the brink of international bankruptcy. Our country is now in hock to foreign banks to the tune of $4. 1 billion. That is what we now owe to overseas countries and overseas bankers. That is how much this country is now in debt to international financiers. It is this Government that is responsible. We have a Prime Minister who talks glibly about good housekeeping and balancing the family budget, yet in three years he has increased Australia's debt to more than $4,000m. The latest borrowing of another $600m from Japan puts every man, woman and child in the country into hock for $324. The debt will get bigger as the Government continues to knock on the doors of the financial houses around the world. At the moment our international debts are 2V times greater than they were in the 1950s and the 1960s. They are four times as great as the level of debt in 1 974-75. The Government glosses over the fact that it is the taxpayer who must repay this massive debt, as well as repaying the interest. Every taxpayer in the country is now in hock to foreign bankers for an average of $830 to pay off the debt. 
The House will recall what the Prime Minister said in November 1976 after his Government had devalued our dollar by  1Vi  per cent- the greatest devaluation in our history. He said: 
Is there anyone here who would say they would sooner put Australia into hock to the tune of $ 1 ,000m than devalue? 
Yet that man, the Prime Minister of our country, is now responsible for putting Australia into hock for another $2, 800m since he made that statement. What a hypocrite! Is it any wonder that the people cannot trust the Prime Minister? Not only did the Prime Minister knock 17 1/2 per cent off the value of the dollar two years ago, but he has managed to knock another 4 per cent off it since then. It is devaluation by stealth; it is writing down the value of the dollar by deceit. 
Australia no longer has the assets to back up its overseas debt obligations. That is how irresponsible this Government has been. When the Prime Minister and his supporters seized government at the end of 1975, Australia's overseas debt was about $ 1,250m and official reserve assets were about $2,600m. I think all honourable members would agree that the margin of $ 1,300m in our favour at the time was a very healthy one. But what is the situation today? Today our overseas debts amount to $4, 100m and they will increase to $4,700m when we receive the Japanese loans. In contrast, our reserve assets are less than $3,000m. Simply put, this means that we owe our international creditors $ 1,100m more than we can pay. So that Government members can understand that, let me put it in simple terms: We are overdrawn. As everyone knows, except obviously the Prime Minister, debts should not exceed assets; otherwise the creditors will foreclose, and that means bankruptcy- in Australia's case, bankruptcy on a massive scale. This Government and this Prime Minister are responsible, with their irresponsible policies and their irresponsible management of the economy, for driving Australia into just such a position.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table which shows Australia's official overseas reserves and debt for the years 1952-53 to 1978-79. Its source is the Reserve Bank of Australia Statistical Bulletin. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197810124_88_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. The table shows that our average debt per capita of population for the yean 1952-53 to 1971-72 was about $1 10 to $130. In our period of office it was from $96 to $88. But since this Government came to power, the debt per head has increased to $325. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  is concerned about trade and industry being over-governed, or hindered by overintervention by the Government. On this side of the chamber we are more concerned with consumer protection being hindered by over-active government. That is exactly our objection to this Bill. Of course, we support the Trade Practices Act in principle, but are concerned that the proposed amendments to it will reduce the consumer protection which it affords. 
The Trade Practices Act, which was pioneered by the Labor Government in 1974 strengthened considerably the position of consumers, relative to producers and distributors. Apart from the major reforms in the field of consumer protection, the Act's most important provisions relate to restrictive trading, which was made illegal. The Act has the double purpose of benefiting the public as ultimate consumers, as well as aiding the competitiveness of business in general. As one might expect with such legislation, the attitude of the Liberal and National Country parties was completely obstructive. During the 1975 general election campaign, the then caretaker Prime Minister derided the Trade Practices Commission, established under the terms of the Act, as one of the octopi that had been created by the Labor Government to strangle business. That, of course was nothing like the truth. There was talk of abolishing large sections of the Act, especially the provisions dealing with anticompetitive trading. But it would seem that the responsibilities of office have, to some extent at least, tempered the views of many members of the Government in relation to this Act. This is not to say of course, that the Government welcomes the constructive work undertaken by the Trade Practices Commission. Far from it. The Commission is starved of staff and funds. Its opportunities to venture into the market place, to ascertain what is happening, have been circumscribed by the Government's mean-spirited approach in providing funds. In this respect, it is worth quoting from the third annual report of the Trade Practices Commission, which is for the financial year 1976-77: 
The ceilings have forced a progressive decline of the Commission 's staff to 207 at 30 June 1 977 - 
That represented a reduction from the number of 220 which had been reached in October 1 975- and the numbers will have to decline further. These numbers include all support staff- typing and secretarial, library, records and other management services. Staff ceilings may be general to the Public Service, but they bite harder on a new organisation whose role is developing and whose work is expanding. 
Indeed, it is a telling indictment of the cavalier approach by this Government in respect of consumer protection and eliminating anticompetitive aspects of business trading. If the Government were serious about providing an efficient instrumentality and looking after the legitimate interests that I have described, it would not be cutting back savagely on staff as the Commission's responsibilities become greater and more demanding. 
I turn now to the amendments embodied in this Bill. The most serious doubt that I have on this Bill concerns the possible further erosion of the consumer protection aspects of the legislation. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  has decided to extend the present exception, from the prohibition in section 45a of the Act, of price fixing for joint ventures relating to services. He has said that the Government has decided on this course of action merely to tidy up an anomaly so that the proposed exceptions in relation to services will correspond with that relating to goods. However, there is no good reason, apart from pressure from the large corporations which back this Government, to pursue the further weakening of the consumer protection provisions of the Trade Practices Act. Last year the Minister introduced an amendment excepting joint ventures relating to goods from the provisions of section 45a of the Act, and the Opposition opposed that amendment. In fact the amendment that was carried last year and the amendment that is being debated now, if carried, will weaken severely the basic thrust of the Trade Practices legislation. The Minister has bowed to pressure from IBM Australia Ltd, the computer company, which has launched a campaign against certain sections of the Trade Practices Act. 
Computer companies had refused to write new contracts under the original Act provisions, because they would have been liable to pay damages that might have flowed from defective goods or services. The limitations proposed by this Bill, and the amendments that were debated and carried last November, substantially alter the original Act. These alterations are not designed to rectify legislative faults in the Act, but rather to eliminate certain liabilities in respect of goods and services provided by producers and suppliers. By contrast, in America, the so-called bastion of free enterprise, companies are fully liable for their goods and services. If they want protection against loss caused by their product failures they take out insurance. 
I do not know whether they take out insurance against the shortcomings of the underwear they sell or perhaps the dermatitis that may be caused by sulphides. That is something which the honourable member for Herbert might elucidate later. Under this legislation producers are merely liable to the extent of repairing or replacing faulty products. They are not responsible for the damage or loss that may be caused to a company should a certain machine, for example, cease to function or, because of faulty manufacture, constantly breaking down. Computer companies could have been liable for thousands of dollars in damages because of loss of profits caused to a company should their computer break down. Perhaps it is little wonder that such a campaign has been waged by the computer companies on this issue, and smaller wonder that the Minister has bowed to the pressure. But the question that we must consider is: Should companies be liable for the effect caused by their faulty manufactures? There seems to be to be an unassailable reason for arguing for the affirmative in respect of this issue. 

 Mr colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  cogently expounded on this point last November when he said: 
It is not good enough just to talk about the question of replacing the machine or repairing the goods. What about the damage the person suffers as a consequence of the failure of the machine or the failure to maintain the warranty?  a  consequential damage is involved. That person could go broke because of this liability. We do not see that happening in the international sphere. These people are unlikely to go broke. They have a multi-million dollar asset backing. 
These words of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition should really be heeded by the Government on this issue. Quite simply, the small business community in Australia is being deprived of the protection afforded by the original Act. The Government has decided to sell out the small business community and to support the dictates of computer companies like IBM - 
The Minister might think it is rubbish. I do not think that the small business community does. As the IBM- Facom affair demonstrated, IBM seems to have inordinate influence over many members of this Government. 
The memories of honourable members opposite are short if they cannot remember the IBM-Facom affair. We on this side of the House remember it vividly and I am sure the general public, which recently has been registering great disapproval of the Government's credibility in the community, thinks likewise. The general public certainly remembers. The result of acceptance of the amendment under discussion might well be to harm the small business community in Australia and to limit the damages which may have had to be paid by the computer manufacturers. The result of the Government's action is that the consumer will suffer detriment. The consumer will have to bear the cost and that will be the end of the story. It is a situation which is hardly fair and reasonable. As a matter of natural justice the common law normally requires that a product which is bought should meet the purpose for which it is specified. The amendment embodied in this Bill strikes against this proposition. The proposal that a joint venture for the supply of services should be exempted from the provisions of the original Act is in many respects even worse than what was enacted in respect of goods by the Government's amendments last year. A faulty service or the non-performance of a service can be even more harmful to a company than the effect of a faulty machine. 
Numerous examples spring to mind. Suppose a construction company which provides necessary raw materials contracts with a cement mining company to produce a quantity of cement. A delay in the production, faulty production or the production of cement not up to a certain prescribed standard conceivably could cause thousands of dollars worth of damage. Yet because of this amendment the cement mixing company may be liable for producing only more or better cement. It might be argued against what I have said that this Bill cannot exclude provisions in a contract where the consumer indicated a specific purpose, but this is not so clear according to this Bill. Perhaps a court can determine what is fair and reasonable but the 
Government can evade this area of legal contention by dropping or improving the amendment now before the House. 
Another aspect of the Bill which concerns me is the proposal that the Minister may consent to a member of the Trade Practices Commission engaging in paid employment outside the duties of his office. As a general principle there is much to commend this idea, but there are several grounds for expressing reservations. In view of Press reports early this year that the Trade Practices Commission is fighting for its life because of Government attempts to cut back on the powers of the Commission- a threat so serious that the  Chairman  of the Commission,  Mr R.  M. Bannerman, requested staff to prepare papers justifying the Commission's existence- it is worth while examining the possible motives behind this particular amendment. The Government's intention could well be to reduce the commissioners to the level of part time practitioners not engaged in the full time job of overviewing the responsibilities of the Commission. 
-Very serious. Apart from this consideration there could be problems in respect of conflict of interests between the public and private interests of a commissioner. This could be overcome partly by the public disclosure of what private interests and employment a commissioner may enjoy while a member of the Trade Practices Commission. But there is no indication that the Government will move in this direction. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill, but this should not disguise the fact that the Opposition has some serious misgivings about passing it. We deplore the fact that the Government's amendments weaken even more what was originally a very responsible piece of consumer protection legislation that was introduced by the Whitlam Labor Government. That is probably the secret of the situation. The fact that the original Bill was introduced by the Whitlam Labor Government is probably a very good reason why the present Government is reducing its powers. 
-In division 494 of the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry an amount of approximately $36m is set aside for the Bureau of Animal Health, which includes provision for export meat inspection services. I am not about to criticise the fact that we are using this amount of money to provide the excellent inspection service we have for export meat I wish to direct my remarks to the absolute stupidity of the dual inspection service we have managed to proliferate in Australia. Whilst it is not costing the Commonwealth money and therefore would not really lower these estimates, I think it is worth pointing out that the costs of the State inspection services, which really are not necessary, are borne in the long run by the industry generally. Of course, that reacts against the amount of money that the producer gets back for his stock. The inspection service we run is an excellent one, and I suggest that anybody eating meat in Australia or meat exported from Australia is certainly eating meat that has undergone the highest degree of inspection service in the world. 
The facilities that have been provided by the industry in Australia in terms of killing centres, freezing works and packing works are the best in the world, and anybody who has travelled overseas and looked at the meat industry would know that to be true. I know that many of the regulations our inspectors are forced to insist upon are unnecessarily foisted upon us, principally by the United States. If one saw the conditions with which we are made to conform in order to export meat to America and then saw the conditions under which meat is sold in America, one would be staggered at the difference. Our conditions are very much better. I ask the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  within the confines of his constitutional abilities, to try to do something about removing this anomaly that is costing the beef industry in particular so much money. 
Meat inspection is carried out to ensure that consumers are supplied with wholesome and hygienically prepared products. It can also be an efficient means of undertaking other related tasks such as recording animal diseases at the point of slaughter, and grading and classification. The meat inspection service has two broad functions. Firstly, there is the policy and regulatory function such as the development of standards, registration, et cetera, for both export and domestic markets. Secondly, there is the operational inspection function which includes the physical inspection task, disease recording, training of inspectors, and so on. However, there are some characteristics which do lead to problems and these have arisen because of duplication. Home consumption standards are the responsibility of the States, and the standards differ between the States. Export standards are the responsibility of the Federal Government. Importing countries lay down stringent requirements about the preparation of meat intended for their markets and specifically require national government supervision. Of course, they get that in Australia. 
Exports represent a significant part of the total production. Over 50 per cent of veal, beef and mutton and around 70 per cent of the total slaughterings are processed by registered export abattoirs. There are also significant volumes of interstate movements of meat and meat products, and unfortunately that leads to another duplication. For instance, meat sent from Victoria to New South Wales attracts an inspection charge. Basically, no inspection is done but certainly a levy is put on which in the long run is passed on to the consumer and in the short run is passed back to the producer. So this dual Federal-State system of inspection has evolved and many problems flow from the present division of Federal and State responsibilities and from the separate meat inspections. As well as the duplication of staff, these include the additional staff employed due to the requirement for State branding of produce from export works placed on the local market, even though the export standards are the highest in Australia, and separate veterinary groups devising and recommending standards. Commonwealth veterinary officers in charge of export works do not have the normal supervisory control over State employees working as part of a joint team. Friction occurs between the staff due to differing entry requirements, rates of pay, grading structures, and terms and conditions of employment between the States and the Commonwealth, although the inspectors in each system work side by side in most instances. Separate amenities blocks have to be provided by the works for the inspectors at each export works, which of course adds to the cost of the final product. Then there is the difficulty of separate services for the recording on a national basis of animal diseases. 
In November 1976 there were 1,462 Commonwealth and 376 State meat inspectors employed at export abattoirs throughout Australia. Federal expenditure on meat inspection services was around $ 19m in 1974-75, of which salaries of about $ 1 5m formed the greater part. State costs were about $6m. It is likely that total Federal-State meat inspection services currently cost around the $40m mark. Following the Industries Assistance Commission report, the Commonwealth export levy of lc per lb was removed in 1975-76. Commonwealth inspection of export products is now a free service; in other words, a subsidy to the export sector. The Commonwealth currently recoups the cost for inspection of meat for domestic consumption from some States, but that is estimated to be only about $ lm. All the mainland States except South Australia charge inspection fees for all meat placed on the domestic market, regardless of whether processing takes place at domestic or export abattoirs. The State charges are designed to recoup the cost of the State meat inspection service, yet in some cases the charges are for work carried out by the Commonwealth. In other words, the Commonwealth is providing a free service but the States are charging the people who are putting the meat through the abattoirs for a service they are not even providing. The revenue to the States from these charges amounts to about $ 10m per annum. 
An investigation of the cost to the Commonwealth and the States and the recoupment by the States revealed a number of anomalies and inconsistencies, including the Commonwealth performing work for which some States receive fees. The allotment of Commonwealth and State inspectors at joint export abattoirs is not in the ratio of export-local production. Costing is complicated because export standards are higher and more costly to administer than domestic standards. Anomalies arise in Commonwealth recoupment because of different approaches to meat inspection between the States. State fees are complex and subject to change and they differ between States. Additional charges apply to meat moved between States. The anomalies suggest that a more simple and equitable approach needs to be devised which would provide equal treatment to all abattoirs, whether domestic or export. It would remove the hidden subsidies to some States and reduce the administrative cost to governments and the meat industry, and that is basically my complaint. The dual inspection service does not add anything. The inspection conditions that are applied by the Commonwealth are the most stringent in the world. Our hygiene standards are the best in the world and meat exported from Australia has the lowest bacteria content in the world. Australian people eat the best meat in the world, prepared in the best way and inspected in the best way. The cost of adding a State inspection service to what is already the most adequate inspection service in the world is a ridiculous and unnecessary cost that is being borne by both the consumers and the producers. I suggest to the Minister for Primary Industry that earnest endeavours be made between the Commonwealth and the States to have this ridiculous anomaly removed because it does nobody any good. 
The Opposition welcomes the statement by the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  on export incentives and recognises that the Government is making an acknowledgment, albeit belatedly, of the need for such incentives. They have been needed for at least two years. I wonder whether it would be sheer cynicism to assume that record unemployment has forced the Government at last to recognise the problem and do something even marginally worth while. But where is the long term policy? What will we do to recover the lost markets? In the last few years some of the most substantial markets which we had for some of our more important products have disappeared. Where in the statement has the Government spelt out what it will do to recover markets for beef, steel, iron ore, sugar, canned fruits and many of our other better products? I feel that further statements need to be made in support of spelling out policies to back the initiatives referred to in the ministerial statement. 
Numerous aspects of the statement on export development initiatives are unsatisfactory. Significantly, the Minister made his statement before the tabling of the Industries Assistance Commission report on export incentives, as has already been referred to by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  We find it extraordinarily hard to understand that that is the case. The Minister's statement does not set out any long term strategy for the development of more markets overseas. It does not deal with the long term structural problems besetting manufacturing industry. Surely that is a matter which is intricately bound up with export incentives. The IAC report states that, whatever the Government intends to dollop out as incentives for manufacturers to export, the harsh fact is that Australian manufacturing industries in the export sector pay, in effect, a tax of $ 103m via the cost of the tariff structure on their material inputs. In the case of many export industries, components are imported from overseas and the manufactured item is assembled or completed in Australia. The IAC report examines the problems inherent in the tariff and subsidy system protecting Australian industry. Briefly, the point made by the IAC is that in many respects the tariff structure operates against the need for efficiency. The IAC report reads: 
Domestic industries in general have been discouraged from competing on the world market by the protective structure operating in Australia. 
The average level of effective protection of importcompeting manufacturing industries in Australia was about 28 per cent in 1 974-75 and would be even higher now. 
In contrast, manufacturing exports are penalised because assistance to import compering industries increases the costs of material inputs and this has resulted in a negative average effective rate of export subsidy of about 5 per cent in 1974-75. 
That is an extract from the IAC report which was never tabled. Perhaps the most important comment to be made about the IAC findings is that the system of high protection for import competing industries has raised the overall cost structure in the economy and that the net effect has been to provide a wider range of products for the domestic market. But it has done nothing to help the export market. One point that needs to be stressed is that despite the $600m in mineral exports during the 1960s and the early 1970s, Australian manufacturing industry has not developed significant export markets to the same extent as have overseas countries. In fact, international trade accounts today for about 16 per cent of Australia's gross domestic product, which is the same level that applied nine years ago. That is a sorry indictment of this Government which is now in power and which is alleged to be dedicated to free enterprise. 
In the light of these factors it is worthwhile analysing a few of the initiatives undertaken by the Whitlam Government in regard to the promotion of Australian products overseas. Incentive schemes which were operating between 1972 and 1975 provided by way of tax rebates, export incentive grants and export market development allowances $83m in 1972-73 and $92m in 1973-74; and in the financial year 1974-75 these schemes cost $106m. That $106m was wisely and well spent. One can see that during the period Labor was in government the money provided for export incentives was consistently increased. 
How does that compare with the record of this Government? I would like to tell honourable members. Last year a paltry $32m was provided by this Government. The Government now proposes that a maximum of $ 100m be provided by it for the financial year 1978-79. That is not as much as was provided three years ago. The big question from the taxpayer's point of view is: What will the scheme cost? The Government said that it will cost $ 100m in the first year. The cost of incentives in this first year will be $66m and the cost of export market development will be $34m, making a total of $ 100m. However, no mention is made of the cost in the second year and the subsequent years. As the concept envisages forward planning to June 1 982, 1 think it is important that the Government spells out exactly what the scheme will cost in future years. Some of the high flying schemes about which the Government has trumpeted in the last few years were other examples where we were not told what the cost would be. I think we should look in retrospect at the cost of the investment allowance which has been reintroduced by this Government. I do not think the cost has been accurately estimated yet, but it would run into thousands of millions of dollars. What did that scheme produce? All it meant was that manufactures, people in industry, bought highly sophisticated, imported machinery that did nothing to help our manufacturing industry and, in the long run, resulted in industries being more automated and people being put out of work. I hope that the unspecified cost for this scheme does not run to that sort of monstrous level. 
I come back to the $100m which the Government says this scheme will cost this year. That amount is not as much as was provided three years ago. It is staggering that at a time of high inflation and at a time when many Australian industries are in decline, this Government should in the last financial year spend only a third of the sum provided by the Labor Government in the way of export incentives three years ago. Now we have a ministerial statement which is a belated attempt to rectify that which has not been done for the past two years under this Government. When the Labor Party was last in government we proposed the idea that the Overseas Trading Corporation be established in order to promote Australian products in overseas markets. That could have been, as the Government knows, an excellent vehicle by which to promote Australian products and by which to liaise with overseas governments. The establishment of the Corporation was initiated by the former honourable member for Melbourne Ports,  Mr Frank  Crean, primarily in order to deal with the countries of the Middle East and those with centrally planned economies and to provide a world marketing base for Australian manufacturers. It was a perfect indication of the realism shown by the Labor Party in regard to trade matters. Yet the approach of the then Opposition, the present Government, was predictably entirely negative and destructive. When the establishment of the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation was debated in 1975, the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)-  I notice that he has left the chamber- stormed in these terms: 
This Bill is an attempt to nationalise indirectly some of Australia's export industries. It is no surprise that a socialist government should attempt to gain control of Australia's exports which represent the greatest source of wealth to this nation. 
That statement can be found at page 1076 of  Hansard  of 4 September 1975. Instead of engaging in constructive, rational discussion about the proposal to establish an overseas trading corporation, the then Opposition fumed and ranted about phoney issues, claiming that we intended to nationalise all Australian exporters. I hope people were listening to the remarks that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made about the Western Australian Lamb Marketing Corporation,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  That is the sort of socialism about which people of your political persuasion rant and rave. That is the sort of government involvement that this country needs. Giving it the name socialism does not offend us, but apparently it worries honourable members opposite. It was suggested also that the legislation to establish the Corporation helped only to extend our trading links with those contemptuously called our 'commie friends'. The fact is that if Australia is to develop new markets for our manufacturing industry and our primary products, those markets are unlikely to be found with our traditional trading partners. With the present worldwide recession, trade barriers are being erected in most of the developed countries. This is especially the case in regard to agricultural products. 
All the honourable member can think of is uranium. All he can think of is digging out uranium and providing some bloated profits, and never mind the future generations who have to put up with the waste products. The honourable member has fairly named his mark. Significantly the new markets that have been found for our primary industry products have been found in nations such as China. I dare say that the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  would have terrible reservations about our trading with China- the dreaded China. Does the honourable member remember when  Mr Whitlam  made his visit to China in 1971 the uproar that occurred in Australia? I think it was said that he was bending his knee in obeisance to Mao Tse Tung. I do not hear honourable members opposite these days referring to China as Red China. China is one of our big trading partners, and honourable members opposite should thank the Labor Government for developing that market and for making them realise that China is not the ogre or the bogeyman depicted for 200 years. 
We have found markets also in the Soviet Union and in the Middle East countries. They are our big trading partners now. It is in these regions that we should be concentrating our efforts on the export of Australian products. It was to that end that the Overseas Trading Corporation Bill was introduced by the Labor Government. It is a matter of public record that the then Opposition ruthlessly used its power to block that Bill in the Senate and hence destroyed the trading opportunities that may have been available through an Overseas Trading Corporation. Belatedly, as we can see from the Minister's statement, the present Government has come around to the same conclusion. 
This Government has now decided to establish an Overseas Projects Corporation- a corporation whose purpose will be identical to that proposed by the Labor Government in relation to the Overseas Trading Corporation. The Minister in his statement on export development initiatives stated: 
Australian firms frequently seek government assistance to compete against overseas interests that are receiving support from their governments for projects in the Middle East and other new markets. 
These new markets largely are to be found in the Eastern Bloc countries which prefer government to government negotiations on trade matters. The Minister went on to say: 
The Government has completed its discussions with industry organisations and I have presented a Bil] proposing the establishment of the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation to the Parliament with a view to the Corporation commencing operations during 1979. 
That was from the Minister's statement of 13 April 1978. What a pity the Government did not have the foresight, wisdom and intelligence to let the Corporation commence in the early 1970s when it was proposed by our Government. Obviously, as the Minister states clearly, it is because Australian firms seek government assistance in regard to promoting their products overseas that this Corporation has been proposed. This is exactly the same argument as the Labor Government used in justifying the Overseas Trading Corporation Bill. So much for the outrageous claim of the Leader of the National Country Party three years ago that this proposal would lead to the expropriation of Australian exporters. Of course there is a need for promoting export industries in times of high unemployment. I was interested to hear the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Aldred),  whom I regard as one of the more reasonable people on that side of the House, pouring scorn on the Australian work force. I think that people should look at the Jackson report to see what it said about the inefficiency in the management level of our manufacturing industry. The Jackson report did not castigate the work force as some of the Government members tried to do. 
The honourable member for Henty spoke of an organisation in his electorate- which is now exporting successfully. I would like to mention an organisation in my electorate. It is known as International Combustion Aust Ltd which, in defiance of the Jackson report, has exhibited some management expertise and because of that expertise it is not exporting but, what is equally important, it is combating Japanese firms that are getting all the big contracts in Australia for the building of combustion boilers. This company recently landed a very large contract, running into hundreds of millions of dollars, with the Victorian Electricity Commission in direct competition with the Japanese industry. This points up that there is nothing wrong with the expertise or workmanship of Australian tradesmen. The workmanship that I have seen in that organisation is just incredible. The work that they are doing in manufacturing boilers which are the best in the world really is something of which Australians can be proud. We should not heap all the blame for our manufacturing industry problems on the work force. 
Let us look at the Jackson report and put some of the complaints back on management which has not updated its ideas for the last 30 years, basically because of the high protection barriers that have been put up. There are some other vaguenesses inherent in the Minister's statement when he talked about improving industries or making them more viable as far as an export proposition is concerned. He did not mention any industry. If he had said that something would be done for the textile industry, the motor industry or the electronics industry, perhaps the statement would have had some validity. But it does not. It is vacuous; it is vague. It merely states platitudes that we have heard many times before. I would like to see him come back with more reports that fill out the bones and tell us exactly what the Government proposes to do. 

 His statement contained some sort of a reference to tourism. How will the Government help the tourism industry, about which the honourable member for Henty spoke, when the Government is obstructive in the promotion of cheaper air fares to encourage people to come to Australia? The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  who is the shadow minister for tourism spoke in the House yesterday of the need for government initiatives to help the tourism industry become more viable, perhaps by way of increased depreciation allowance on buildings and other initiatives that he mentioned. This report does not mention that point. It does not go into any detail at all. No reference is made as to how the figures of $66m and $34m were arrived at. The Government tells us that it will spend $66m this year on incentives. It spent $32m last year. If it had spelt out exactly how it proposed to double the expenditure, perhaps the report might have had more validity, but it does not. 
Finally, we acknowledge the fact that the Government is wanting to do something although we do not agree with the way it intends to do it or the extent to which it wants to do it. At least it intends to do something. We believe that these export incentives should complement other measures, such as a gradual reduction in the high levels of assistance or new initiatives which could arise from the Crawford report on structural adjustment, a very valuable report that does not get a mention in the Minister's statement. The Government, however, has ignored this approach in moving for increased export incentives now. This is perhaps understandable in the light of the Government's early election promises of export incentives. So it is merely fulfilling an election promise without really looking at the problem. The Government simply cannot continue pushing out palliatives in the form of protection and export subsidies without addressing itself to the difficult question of the future of manufacturing industry. Failure to do so will inevitably mean a continuation of less efficient, highly protected industries and ultimately a smaller industrial base. If that happens we really will be in trouble. 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact, as reported in the latest Reserve Bank Statistical Bulletin, that Australia's overseas borrowings of $4, 100m now exceed our official reserve assets by over $ 1,000m? Is it also a fact that every Australian man, woman and child now owes overseas financiers over $280? Is it also a fact that this liability will increase to $325 per head when the latest Japanese loans of $600m are received? Finally, how does the Prime Minister harmonise this situation with his statements at the time of the 1976 devaluation that he would not allow this country to be even $ 1,000m in debt to overseas' financiers? 
-On 11 November 1977-which is a rather ominous date, but I will not go into thatthe Government accepted the Industries Assistance Commission report. It passed legislation providing for reimbursement on a dollar for dollar basis with the Tasmanian Government to keep the Mt Lyell Mining and Railway Co. viable. The Bill before the House tonight merely seeks to extend the period of that legislation by three months. Obviously the Opposition supports the amending Bill introduced by the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson). 
-Let me finish. The Bill seeks to underwrite the losses of the company to mid- 1980 on a dollar for dollar basis with the Tasmanian Labor Government which is prepared from its modest resources to put up $3.8m to see that Mt Lyell remains viable, that Queenstown does not die and that 2,000 jobs are not lost. That would result in a 1 6 per cent increase in unemployment in this small State. The interesting aspect of this debate is that suddenly there appears to be an anti-Tasmanian putsch appearing opposite. The honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean),  the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  and the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  suddenly appear to be the hated enemies of Tasmania. I wonder how the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck),  the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  and the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  will handle this. Suddenly cracks are appearing in the alliance. Suddenly socialism is all right if it is in one's electorate. But, when it is in someone else's electorate, it is socialism; then it is propping up unprofitable industries. 
We support this Bill because it demonstrates what governments are about. Governments are about providing some viability for industry. If that involves putting up at risk some public money, we support it. It is interesting to see that the honourable members from Tasmania support that concept when it applies to their State but when such assistance is directed somewhere else they regard it as dreaded socialism. However, when it is for pork barrelling in their own electorates it is all right. We do not consider it to be pork barrelling. We have concern for an industry that we think is worth saving, for a town we do not want to see die and for the 2,000 jobs that we consider important. It is a pity that honourable members on the other side cannot have a similar combined and united view. It really is an interesting study in psychology to see this little fissure occur between the two minor States- that can be spelt 'miner' or 'minor'- of Western Australia and Tasmania. I was very surprised to see the honourable member for Franklin sitting alongside the honourable member for Kalgoorlie and copping it all so calmly. 
When the honourable member for Kalgoorlie was pouring buckets on Tasmania the honourable member for Franklin was sitting beside him and copping it sweetly. What happened when we moved amendments to the Apple and Pear Stabilisation Amendment Bill? Why did honourable members opposite not cross the floor and support our proposal to double the subsidy offered by the Government? We believe that that should have been done because the apple and pear industry needs support. Where were honourable members opposite then? More importantly, what are honourable members opposite doing when their Government brings down a Budget that is running down the economy and leading us to the problems that are now occurring in Mount Lyell and in Kalgoorlie? The problems are a result of the Government's lack of economic expertise. Why do honourable members opposite not stand and protest about that? Why do they say nothing until a Bill is introduced to help their State? 
-And Ballarat too. Why do honourable members opposite wait until a Bill like this is introduced to show the Press in Tasmania what wonderful and strong people they are. Where are honourable members opposite when it comes to criticising the Government for its economic policies which have led to a total rundown in our economy and to this sort of - 
-I am pleased that my horse does not talk. The honourable member for Bendigo is making about as much sense as my horse might make if it could talk. The honourable member knows that his Government's policies are wrong. The honourable member knows that the policies the Government has been pursuing are leading to a rundown in all sorts of industries; not just the apple and pear industry or the mining industry in Mount Lyell. The whole range of the Australian economy is being run down. Honourable members should not grandstand about Mount Lyell and Kalgoorlie to suit their own Press. They should be worried about Australia. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The contribution of the honourable member is actually one of the better ones he has made in this place. 
-As I said before, the Bill is a fait accompli but we support it because we know that the assistance is necessary to the continuance of an important industry in Tasmania. Although the assistance is for an area in the electorate of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom),  we do not consider it to be pork barrelling. It is a necessary operation that will save 2,000 jobs. That is our total concern. It is a section 96 grant- a no interest loan which will be paid back when the company achieves a reasonable cash flow. Given the upsurge in world prices for metals, especially copper, that will happen. We do not consider that this grant will cost the Government anything in the long run. It allows the Government the luxury of appearing to be generous at very little cost to it. It saves the miners' jobs and keeps the production of copper going at a time when demand for that commodity appears to be picking up. All of this has relevance to our export revenue earnings now and in the future. We support the Bill. 
Heaven knows that this Government shows little enough confidence in Australia. For once, if only for electoral purposes, to gain support in Tasmanian seats, it is showing a little confidence in something. We support the Government for doing that, although it is a pretty cynical act. I would like the Government to compare its efforts in Queenstown with those of the Tasmanian Labor Government. From the Tasmanian Government's modest resources it is prepared to provide $3. 8m to back up its confidence in an industry in that State. It is a pity that the interest of the Government was not of the same idealist strain as that of the Tasmanian Government. As I said at the outset, I hope that the people listening to the debate are noting the fissure within the ranks of the coalition, that Government members from Western Australia are pouring scorn on those from Tasmania for trying to do something for their State. I do not think they are trying to do it in the idealistic way that we are. Nevertheless, the method will do. We support the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation for the purposes of an amendment to be moved by the Minister announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I am very surprised at the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)-  for whose probity, wit, skill and judgment I have the greatest regard- misinterpreting our attitude towards this Bill. He spoke at length. He said that  Sir Earle  Page decided that all the States' troubles would be at an end. The States then had not heard of Malcolm Fraser, the present Prime Minister, and the new federalism. So their troubles are not at an end; they are just beginning. Let us deal with the honourable member for Lilley 's misinterpretation of our attitude towards this Bill. Of course we support the Bill. In 1 970 at the June Premiers ' Conference part of the revised arrangements was that the Commonwealth would provide a percentage of the States' borrowings in the form of capital grants. The percentage then was 24.3. In government in 1975 we increased it to 33 per cent of borrowings in the form of untied grants or unrepayable loans. Of course we support the Bill. We gave it its genesis. We support it thoroughly. I think that deals with the honourable member for Lilley. It is quite surprising that we had the Western Australian putsch in here last night bitching and complaining about the amount of money that is going to Tasmania, and now we have the honourable member for Lilley, who is from Queensland, complaining that Queensland is being treated parsimoniously. People are being treated parsimoniously everywhere; that is our objection. The amount of money the Commonwealth is making available is too little. 
We support the Bill, but do not like it to that extent and we deplore the philosophy behind it. The word 'stagnating' has unpleasant overtones, and so does this Bill because it embraces a theory of stagnation. The amount set down in this Bill for capital grants is the same amount as in the previous year, disregarding of course inflation which honourable members opposite say is 5 or 6 per cent but which the housewives of the nation probably think is more like 1 5 or 1 6 per cent. Let us settle on about 8 per cent. Disregarding all that, the Government is giving the States the same amount as last year. The Loan Council program provided $l,433m, with one-third of that, in line with the Labor Party's program, being allocated to the States as general purpose capital grants. This means that the States will receive $477,933,000- exactly the same as last year. This is truly regressive legislation. There are two concepts inherent in this type of economic planning which have been totally discredited. One is the Government's obsession with lowering the deficit. I was interested to hear that the honourable member for Lilley is not altogether in accord with that; he would like to see it expanded. Whether he wants it or not, it is going to be expanded; that is a mathematical fact. The figure that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has given us as his intended deficit is of course not going to be the figure. The Government's hopes are going to truly founder there. 
The other thing that we do not like about the Bill, of course,, is Fraserian federalism. The Opposition, the economists and obviously the people are awake to the Government. The lie has been exposed. We know that the draconian cuts we have witnessed in this Budget have very little to do with aiding the economy but have a great deal to do with fostering this Government's obsession with a redistribution of wealth so that the poor shall be poorer and the very rich shall be even richer. The cry from the Government that all economic wisdom begins and ends with being able to lower the deficit has had its day. The suffering in human terms denies that and also emphasises the fallacy of it. The proud claim of the Government that new federalism is the answer to the States' prayers is likewise in tatters. The preamble to every State Budget this month evinces that the States disagree with the Prime 
Minister on that score. So, what is the Government's excuse for the parsimonious amount provided in this Bill? It does not offer excuses. It does not admit that since its unholy grab for power it has failed to come to grips with the economy. It just keeps feeding us the lie: 'It has to hurt before it does you any good and, anyway, life was not meant to be a bed of roses; so you have to cop it'. 
It seems so obvious that the Government lies when it continues, in the face of fact, with its deficit obsession. I think it is appropriate in this context to quote Mark Twain, of all people, who spoke of what he termed the 'national lie'. Mark Twain described it as: 
The silent, colossal national lie that is the support and confederate of all the tyrannies, shams, inequalities and unfairnesses that afflict the people. That is the one to throw bricks and sermons at. 
-I think it is better than Ted Innes 's tipping. It is a quotation from Mark Twain and I thought the Minister would have understood it. This Government has bequeathed a litany of lies to the people and it is very obvious that the people have begun to throw bricks at the national lie. That is what the Werriwa byelection was all about. That is partly what the landslide in New South Wales was all about. It is obviously what the by-election in Ballarat was all about. In the Hamer election in a few months time the people of Victoria will reject the national lie and the coalition parties. The people have started throwing bricks at this Government and they have shown that they appreciate the sermons of which Mark Twain spoke and which we on this side of the House have preached against the tyranny of Fraserism. The hallmark of Fraserism is stamped all over this Bill. It is stubbornness allied to a basic stupidity on the part of the Prime Minister which has seen this country dragged down into the quagmire of despondency- and these are the fellows who were going to turn on the lights. Through their mishandling of the economy we are descending even further into the recession. 
I quote from a comment made by  Mr Kenneth  Davidson, the economics editor of the  Age,  when discussing the Budget the day after it was brought down. 
-There are some good journalists about. This is  Mr Kenneth  Davidson. I do not think the honourable member can put him in the same class as that other friend of his. He said: 
Such a Budget would be appropriate to an economy where private sector spending is about to go into an inflationary spiral or where the economy must be brought to a full stop to avert a balance of payments crisis. 
That is hardly the Australian experience.  Mr Davidson  claimed that the measures taken were more appropriate to a boom economy than to a recession, describing the Budget as viciously deflationary. It is this viciously deflationary strategy which is apparent in this Bill. Federalism also is a part of the great national lie. As with the deficit obsession, federalism is the Prime Minister's monster, and like the deficit monster it too is a monster which threatens to strangle the economy. 
Stage one of federalism has been going on for a couple of years now, long enough for us all to be able to say that it has failed. The States were duped; it is as simple as that. A quick look at what the colleagues of honourable members opposite in the States say about the new federalism proves this. In Western Australia the Treasurer, who could hardly be described as a socialist, outlined the great financial burden which the Commonwealth's actions had placed on the States' budgeting plans. He said: 
The frequent changes in cost sharing arrangements in recent years have been of great concern to the Government, both with respect to the manner in which the changes have been effected and the additional burden that has been placed on the States' finances. 
He went on to say: 
I would hope that in the future there will be full consultation with the States before any changes are made so that the impact on the States' finances can be properly assessed. 
That does not exactly sound like the cry of a happy man. In the same vein the Queensland Treasurer, also not a noted socialist, had this to say: 
In fact, it has been calculated that Queensland's financial prospects deteriorated to the extent of at least $38. 8m in about two months as a result of these Commonwealth policies and actions. 
He was speaking about the June Premiers Conference and its effect on the States' budgeting program, which may be of some news to the honourable member for Lilley who seems to think that everything is rosy in Queensland. The Treasurer of Queensland went on to say: 
What is of very deep concern to us is the persistent insistence on the part of the Commonwealth that it also needs to strangle capital works, slash State loan borrowing programs and wipe out capital grants for other State works. An expanded public capital works program can bring the economy to life again more quickly without any harmful effects on inflation. That is not just old fashioned economics. It is good common sense. Every dollar spent on capital works generates a further $2 or $3 worth of expenditures in flow-on and multiplier effects further down the line in supporting and associated industries and so on. 
One might almost say: Spoken like a true Keynesian. It is the truth that under this Bill the States are being starved of the finances they desperately need to overcome unemployment and lack of confidence on the part of the spending public. A few weeks ago an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  mentioned how Australians were 'squirrelling' away their savings at an astounding rate. It is not hard to work out why. It is because they do not trust this Government to get the country out of the recession. Is it any wonder? 
A few years ago the United States of America had an enormous problem. It very effectively spent its way out of its problem. In 1974-75 the United States had an unemployment level of 7,830,000 and an inflation rate of 1 1 per cent. In 1977-78 the level of unemployment had dropped to 6,856,000 and the rate of inflation had dropped to 6.5 per cent. If we compare that with the Australian experience we see that in 1974 our level of unemployment was 122,000 and our rate of inflation was 15 per cent. In 1977-78- the same period covered by the United States figures- the level of unemployment in Australia had soared to 344,700 and the rate of inflation was still 12.3 per cent. These are figures taken from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development bulletins. 
Basically, the Commonwealth funds the States in the following ways: Through special purpose grants; through capital grants; and through general purpose revenue. In each area the screws have been applied relentlessly. The special purpose grants have been cut back in the name of federalism. Let us look at just a few areas in which the cuts fell. The hospital development program was abolished. This was worth $48. 5m last year. This year the allocation is $6m- a decent cut! It has been virtually abolished. 
-That has disappeared also. That has gone down the sewer. The community health programs allocation has been reduced from $69.4m to $52.6m. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  might shake his head, but people who are looking for community health programs in various electorates are shaking their heads in wonderment. 

 Mr JOHN BROWN He should stop shaking it; it rattles. The allocation for school dental schemes has been reduced from $24.4m last year to $ 1 9.3m this year. The Minister's teeth are falling out. Welfare housing has felt the axe and the allocation for that has been cut from $400m last year to $330m this year. In New South Wales alone that will cost us a cool $24m. 
The next main method of financing the States- the method covered by this Bill- is through capital grants. Since. 1970-71, under the States Grants Act, which is similar to the Act which this Bill seeks to amend, it has been agreed that a proportion of the funds of the State governments Loan Council program would be provided in the form of interest free nonrepayable grants in lieu of what otherwise would be interest bearing borrowings by the States. Earlier I made the point that this amendment was introduced by a Labor government. As from 1975-76 it was agreed that one-third of the total States Loan Council program would be provided for in the form of capital grants. At the June 1 978 meeting of the Loan Council it was agreed that the Loan Council program for this coming year would be for an amount totalling $1,43 3 m- the same as for the previous year. One-third of that amount is $477m, the amount covered by this Bill. 
-If the Minister is feeling lousy and wants to scratch himself he can go for his life. This money is used by the States to finance their capital works programs in areas such as police and schools. The amount that is allocated in this legislation will mean that these labour intensive initiatives of the States will suffer badly. 
-That is true. I read Mark Twain. I hope that the Minister learned something from it too. With inflation, according to the 1978-79 figures, at a rate of 6 per cent per annum, the States should have received at least $508m just to keep up with the inflation rate. They did not receive that amount and the result is that effectively they have lost out by 6 per cent. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The House will come to order or the Chair will raise its voice. The honourable member for Parramatta will proceed without interruption. 
-Without interruption from the clown from Moreton. The other method by which the Commonwealth funds the States is through general purpose revenue. Prior to Stage 1 of new federalism, this was arrived at by a special formula taking into account the size and the problems of the States. Now, under the new tax sharing arrangements with the States, the States receive a fixed proportion of personal income tax. Here is the lie,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Here is where the States were duped. Given this Government's propensity for raising taxes in a devious manner, the States are being swindled. Under this agreement surcharges and levies on personal income tax are excluded from the amount of tax to be shared. Although the Treasurer has said that this year's surcharge will be included, it can still be done at his whim. The reason that the Government is being so generous is that it will not cost it anything. The percentage of tax being returned to the States this financial year will fall below the guaranteed minimum which the Act ensures. That is, no State will be better off under federalism. 
-I know what I am talking about. Each State will fall back on the Whitlam formula, which is the minimum that the Act guarantees. 
I will use the words of the Treasurer to explain the situation. I will quote from an answer he has given, if honourable members can follow his involved rhetoric. I ask them to listen to an answer he gave to a question on this point of the 1.5 per cent surcharge and its inclusion in the taxing arrangement. I will allow for the fact that honourable members opposite might not be able to read, but the Treasurer's answer is recorded in  Hansard  of 22 August. He said: 
The short answer to the honourable gentleman's question is yes but I think it is necessary to add to that. In practical terms it is very unlikely that it will result in the amount of money to be received by the States under the tax sharing arrangements in 1979-80 being increased, lt is anticipated that under the arrangements as they now exist all States in 1979-80 will receive funds on the guaranteed basis. Even if we added the additional $570m to the amount of money against which the formula is applied, the figure would still not be above the guaranteed figure. Under the arrangements the greater of the product of applying the percentage or the guaranteed amount is received. 
If honourable members can follow that they will know the answer. Is it any wonder that the amount of tax to be shared around is contracting so rapidly that federalism cannot work? The Government has been hoist with its own petard. There is minus growth in the public sector, thanks to the little obsession of our Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  with not spending or investing in this great country. This has all but strangled the private sector. Therefore, the level of unemployment goes from strength to strength and less income tax is collected, so there is less to share with the States. 
The Federal Government does not stop there when it comes to discriminating against the States. There are other means of collecting taxes- other much more unjust means, because the Government's income tax scales are pitted against the middle and lower wage and salary earners. There is indirect taxation. This most recent Budget has shown us how much the Government favours that method. Petrol, beer, spirits, et cetera have all been heavily taxed. The Government is so devious that it deceives the States very simply. The gap widens between what is collected by way of personal income tax and what the Government extorts from the public by way of indirect taxes. Of course, company taxes are excluded from these tax sharing arrangements. Let me repeat the lofty sentiments of 1975 when the coalition parties proclaimed their new federalism policies. They stated it this way: 
Federalism ... is not merely a structural concept. Its principal justification is a philosophical one. It aims to prevent dangerous concentration of power in a few hands. 
Hands up those honourable members who read between the lines in 1975 and saw the sinister message in those words. Look at them,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  What a collection of geniuses! Make no mistake,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  power is highly concentrated in the hands of the Prime Minister.  His  treatment of the States, as indicated by this Bill and by other States grants Bills, shows how cynically he is using that power. In the words of the South Australian Premier, the States are 'captives of the financial chains imposed on them by the Commonwealth Government'. Kenneth Davidson has estimated that unless the States raise their own taxes and charges they will have about $200m less to spend in the coming financial year than they had in the previous financial year. Translated into jobs, this means that the States will have to retrench about 15,000 workers because of the dearth of government contracts that will be going to the States. 
The State Premiers are not in sympathy with the Prime Minister's federalism. They have suffered the costs of his philosophy and his mismanagement of the economy. Because the words are not parliamentary, I cannot quote them to honourable members, but I would love to be able to tell them what  Mr Coleman  had to say after the Earlwood by-election about the Prime Minister's great contributions to  Mr Coleman's  efforts in that by-election. However, because his words are not parliamentary, I cannot quote them exactly. I think that he spelt out quite clearly what he, as the leader of the Liberal Party of Australia in New South Wales, thought about federalism.  Mr Hamer  in Victoria has not been backwards in saying the same thing. This restraint on public spending, tightening the belt and all the rhetoric about equating the national economy with the household budget have failed to wash. It is a policy that was disastrously discredited during the Depression and which is now disregarded by almost every other OECD country. The way to recovery is not through curtailing public sector activities. By slowly strangling the private sector infrastructure, the Government has brought the private sector almost to a state of collapse. The orders, which to a great extent come from the public sector, are drying up. This has a very deleterious effect on the private sector. Private industry cannot take on apprentices and cannot find jobs for the unemployed, and building industries particularly are going to the wall more every day while this Government sits back and does nothing. 
Governments have a social as well as an economic responsibility; and this Government is failing on both fronts. If, like the Prime Minister, one were a dedicated anarch-capitalist who relished an Ayn Rand-type society where governments-  (Extension of time granted).  I thank the House. If, like the Prime Minister, one were a dedicated anarch-capitalist who relished an Ayn Rand-type society where governments exist only to police the property rights of the very wealthy, maybe one would applaud the Government's methods. Honourable members opposite may; I do not. However, if one believed that governments should be responsible for the welfare of its citizens- all its citizens- and that governments should show the way in job creation programs, in providing health services, education, transport, et cetera, one would agree that this government is a miserable failure. I mentioned the Prime Minister's Randian philosophy, but even in his best of all possible worlds, where government exists for the benefit of the very rich, there needs to be a booming private sector. The facts prove that private enterprise is suffering untold hardships because of the lack of stimulus from the public sector. The redistribution of income and the concentration of power in the Prime Minister's hands are happening at an alarming rate. This Bill is an instrument of that philosophy and we would like the people to know that. I think that they do because, latterly, election results in two States have indicated that they are awake. 
Question put- 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Willis's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
In the House recently there has been a spate of petitions concerning the exploits of some Australian commandos in two operations known as Jaywick and Rimau. My grievance concerns the failure of the nation to recognise in a proper and lasting way the heroic exploits of this group of Australian war heroes. Specifically I refer to a small group of commandos who staged two raids on enemy shipping in the Singapore area. Briefly the story is that in September 1943 an operation called Jaywick, using an old coastal steamer called  Krait,  raided Singapore, sank seven ships- a total of 39,000 tons- and returned to Australia. This is the longest successful smallscale raid in the history of war. 
Thirteen men sailed thousands of kilometres in this old and small ship through enemyinfested waters to the islands near the Singapore Roads. Choosing a dark night, the commandos crept up to the Japanese ships in canoes and attached limpet mines to the sides of their main holds. It was a desperate enterprise. The attack was a brilliant success. Seven ships were sunk. The commandos escaped undetected and later were picked up by the  Krait  at the appointed rendezvous. Then, dodging the searching Japanese ships and aircraft, the  Krait  slipped away through the Java Sea into the Indian Ocean and back to Australia. Operation Jaywick was a triumph beyond anyone's expectations. But it had to be kept secret. The Japanese remained baffled by the whole affair. 
In September 1944, just a year later an attempt was made to repeat this raid in an operation called Rimau which unfortunately resulted in the death of 23 British and Australian commandos. The story of the second operation is that the raiding party was detected in the entrance to Singapore Harbour. Its junk, the  Mustika,  was about to enter the Singapore Straits when it was spotted by a Japanese control police observation post and challenged. A Japanese boat was sent to investigate. The commandos scuttled the junk and set out in their canoes for their rendezvous at Merapas Island with their rescue submarine, the  Porpoise.  For reasons yet unknown, the submarine failed to keep the rendezvous and the members of the raiding party set out for Australia in their flimsy canoes. 
Their story is one of unbelievable heroism which has never yet been officially recognised or suitably honoured. Many were killed by the Japanese search parties near the Indonesian islands. Lieutenant 'Blondie' Sargent, with two others as yet unknown, in an incredible feat of endurance and heroism paddled 4,000 kilometres from Singapore to Romang Islandtravelling from dusk to dawn for some two months. Lieutenant Sargent and 10 others finally were captured, court-martialled and ceremoniously executed by Samarui sword only 39 days before the Japanese surrendered. Ronald McKie, in his book  The Heroes,  reports the incident in this way: 
The survivors were put on trial at Raffles College on charges of 'perfidy and espionage'. It was a strange hearing, for both the defence and prosecution spent a great deal of their time praising 'these heroes' who had 'sublime patriotism flaming in their breasts'. The prosecutor ended by declaring 'The last moment of a hero must be historic and it must be dramatic. Heroes have more regard for their reputation than for anything else. As we respect them, so we feel our duty of glorifying their last moments as they deserve; and by our doing so the names of these heroes will remain in the hearts of the British and Australian people for evermore. In the circumstances I consider that a death sentence should be given to each of the accused.' It was. The commandos were executed on July 7, 1945, on a lonely stretch of ground near Reformatory Road. Major-General Ohtsuka reported that all Japanese soldiers should be inspired by the example of the men 'if they hoped to win the war'. 
Is it not strange that the captors and executioners of these men recognised the valour of their exploits, while we have not done so? Execution by the ceremonial Samurai sword was the Japanese way of honouring their courage. I quote a passage from the book  Australia in Nine Wars  by Peter Firkins: 
The extreme parsimony with which awards for bravery were made when Australian forces were not under British command has frequently been commented upon. The magnificent success of operation Jaywick under the conditions described is a classic example of this situation. Many Victoria Crosses have been awarded for less hazardous enterprises. But a mention in dispatches for the Captain of the  Krait,  Lieutenant Carse, must surely rank as one of the meanest examples of recognition ever made. 
The commandos of operation Rimau were completely ignored and received no recognition at all for their supreme sacrifice. No attempt was made by the authorities to inform the relatives, other than the official notification of their being killed in action in 1945. 1, like the young soldiers of the present 1 Commando Association, am extremely disappointed that heroism such as I have described should be ignored at an official level by my fellow Australians. 
I seek the support of the House in attaining proper recognition of these unsung heroes of 33 years ago. I suggest with respect, the award of the Cross of Valour to each of the officers and men of Jaywick and Rimau. I believe that this is the responsibility of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann).  This medal- an Australian decoration corresponding to the Victoria Cross- has never yet been awarded. No one has yet seen fit to award it. The regulations are the same as those for the Victoria Cross. These rules must be changed to enable the Australian Government to grant this award to these heroes of a recent yesteryear. I seek the support of all my fellow members in petitioning and lobbying the Minister for Veterans' Affairs to see that these men who did so much to conquer the Japanese in the Singapore area are suitably decorated for their extreme courage and heroism. 
There is no doubt about the need for long term rural finance in Australia. In 1971, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics report on debt reconstruction and farm adjustment stated: 
There is need for a long term credit facility for agriculture because access to capital will become an increasing problem to the predominately unincorporated enterprise type of farm business and particularly because it is necessary to facilitate the development of farm enterprise. 
Then there was the important report of 1974, the Green Paper entitled 'Rural Policy in Australia', tabled by the Labor Government, which stated: 
There has been a gap in the long term credit facilities available to rural producers. 
Obviously the banks, the large finance companies and pastoral nouses all had failed in this respect. All had failed to provide finance for Australian agricultural industry. 
The peculiar nature of agriculture in Australia has led to a situation where those involved in agriculture are peculiarly in need of long term finance. Because of the harsh conditions under which farmers operate in Australia, because of the long production cycle and the length of time before cash flow comes from new developments, because of fluctuating conditions and because of the harsh climate that farmers have to endure, of course there is a need for long term concessional finance. The Liberal Party in 1975, being aware of this and in its normal cynical fashion, produced in its election policy speech a promise to establish a rural bank. For nearly two years nothing was heard of that proposal, except that the Australian Bankers Association, comprising the private banks, was using its considerable muscle within the Liberal Party to kill that proposal. Two years later in November 1977, just before the then pending election, the Government introduced, again for electoral purposes, and passed the Australian Rural Bank Act which authorised the establishment of a banking corporation. 
In his 1977 policy speech the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  promised that the bank would provide long term credit to viable borrowers for up to 30 years at concessional rates of interest. Every farmer in Australia realises what a false promise that was and how readily he was duped. However, when we think of the other promises which the Prime Minister made at that time it is not surprising that the farmers were duped. Let us look at a few from this litany of broken promises. There was the promise to maintain Medibank. We all know how that promise has been shattered. The promise to maintain wage indexation was never honoured. There was a promise to cut interest rates by 2 per cent, and he has about seven weeks left in this year in which to produce the proof of the worth of that promise. The tax cuts which people were promised in 1 977, of course, have turned out to be an extra imposition of tax on every person. Then there was the promise that unemployment would start falling in February and continue falling for the rest of the year. Of course, the rural bank was just another one of the broken promises of that election campaign. 
Apart from that, the legislation as it was introduced was vague on such important details as equity capital, magnitude and source of funds for lending, and the directorship of the corporation. It stated that there would be 12 directors, including a  chairman  and one other representative appointed by the Government and only two directors representing primary industry. Who the other eight would be was a complete mystery. The legislation authorised the Treasurer to make funds available on conditions determined by him, but did not say how much. The Act explicitly forbade the Bank to deal directly with primary producers. It could provide funds only for on-lending. Trading banks and the fringe financial institutions, like the stock firms, became in fact the lenders. The Primary Industry Bank lends only to them. There is no doubt that the private banks demanded that restriction. There is also no doubt that the Fraser Government, as is its custom in dealing with such strong faceless bodies as the Australian Bankers Association or the Australian Medical Association, weakly complied with their request. 
In January 1978 a joint release by the Treasurer and the Minister for Primary Industry stated that funds would not be available for farm plant or livestock purchases, thereby further restricting the Bank's role. The Bank's facility was only to lend for capital works- for the purchase of the farm, not to stock it. It was not really a primary industry bank at all. On 1 1 May 1978 the Treasurer introduced an amending Bill which changed the Bank's name from 'Rural Bank' to Primary Industry Bank'. It also amended section 7 of the original Act- the section which authorised the Treasurer to make funds available to the Bank for lending 'on such terms and conditions as he determines'. The amendment added 'and agreed to by the Bank'- obviously another little foible of the ABA which weakened the structure again. 
The second reading speech of 11 May 1978 announced that the trading banks would appoint seven of the 12 directors and the State banks would appoint one. The pretext for giving the private banks directorial control was that they would supply most of the equity capital. This was so, but the equity capital of" $6.25m in total was but a tiny fraction of the funds required to give the Bank any significance at all in the realm of banking. These actions delivered the Primary Industry Bank completely into the hands of the private trading banks- the traditional lamb delivered to the slaughterhouse. Because we in the Labor Party were worried about this situation we moved to reduce the private bank directors from seven to four and to increase the farmer directors from two to four. One National Country Party member- funnily enough, apart from the Minister for Primary Industry I cannot see one National Country Party member in the House for the debate on this Bill which is of such significance to the rural industry; I guess that that is a sad reflection on the fact - 
I wish to say something about land deals also, but not of the type to which the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  referred. I refer to a Press release which appeared in today's newspapers which was made conjointly by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr Chaney)  and the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann).  It concerned the sale of some existing holdings of land held by the Defence Service Homes Corporation. It disturbed me to some extent because I knew that a lot of this land had been garnered and collected with a view to the future for defence service homes by my colleague the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  in his time as the exalted Minister for Housing. I was pleased to learn that in areas where housing land is scarce land would be available to respective buyers. I was delighted to find that in New South Wales there were 330 developed blocks and 238 acres still to be developed fully. I wondered what that meant. 
Today I had two or three calls to my electoral office in Sydney from people who are interested in applying to buy a block. They had heard that they could apply to the nearest office of the Defence Service Homes Corporation to see exactly what they had to do and to put in a tender. They were a little doubtful what they should do so they thought that they should get in touch with their local member. So, I went to the trouble of looking up the land that was fairly near to my electorate. It is all in the electorate of Mitchell as a matter of fact, but it is fairly well on the borders of Parramatta. They spoke of land at Rouse Hill, Kellyville and Castle Hill. Rouse Hill is a nice rural area; it is nothing salubrious by any means. The reports spoke of 25 hectares of land available at Rouse Hill. I checked up on this matter and I found that the land in Schofields Road and Windsor Road is in fact in an area which has been frozen by the Blacktown Council to a 100-acre minimum and is unlikely ever to be released. Whatever that was going to do for prospective home buyers, I do not know. 
I thought that Rouse Hill was apparently out and that I would go up the scale a little to Kellyville which is a rather more attractive area. So, I checked up on the land there. It is on the corner of Glenhaven Road and Uringa Road in Castle Hill. I found that that land is also zoned not for residential use and restricted to 5-acre blocks. It is known as non-urban rural land which is unlikely to be released for residential home blocks. So, that is another disappointment for the buyers. The last card left was Castle Hill. That is the top of the tree in our area; it is the place to be. It is very much a salubrious area, an area that is desired by many people as a place in which to live. There are 3 1 hectares available at the corner of Windsor Road on the eastern side of Old Windsor Road. I found that the same situation applies there. The land is zoned nonresidential rural and is unlikely ever to be released. It is controlled by the Baulkham Hills Council. 
So, I had to tell these poor people who were inquiring about the possibility of acquiring this land that that was the situation. That led me to realise what a dubious Press release this was- a Press release about home building land. I would be much happier if the two Ministers responsible had given a true description of the land. It might be prospective home building land but it will probably not be able to be built on until the year 2020. Who is going to buy a block of land now, expecting to build a house on it then? I would have thought it would have been a more honest approach if the Press release had set out fully the disabilities that people would face if they wanted to purchase one of these blocks of land. I am quite disturbed that people, having had their hopes lifted by reading the newspaper this morning, have found upon further investigation that it was just another dupe by this Government, that it does not really intend to release home building land at all and that this is merely another headline to get a few votes. When people look under these sorts of headlines they always find the same thing- a certain amount of deception. I feel sorry that this sort of Press release has to be released with the result that people's hopes are built up and then destroyed. 
-As the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  has just pointed out, we are debating these three Bills cognately. The first of the Bills with which I would like to deal is the Livestock Diseases Bill 1978 which, of course, the Opposition supports. The Bill provides for the same disease controls in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory as now apply in the States. Since 196 1 arrangements have existed between the Commonwealth and the States for the control and eradication of foot and mouth disease outbreaks in Australia should they occur, involving agreements between the Prime Minister and the State Premiers for joint action. Regardless of where in Australia an outbreak occurred the Commonwealth was to contribute half the eradication costs and the States the balance. In addition to the agreed arrangements, each State enacted legislation to provide for the measures expected to be required should an outbreak occur in that State. 
Similarly, the Commonwealth Foot and Mouth Disease Act 1961 covered potential outbreaks in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. This Act established the Foot and Mouth Disease Eradication Trust Account, known for lots of good reasons as FMDETA- and even that is a long enough term- to finance any expenses incurred and compensation payments made by any eradication campaigns in the Northern Territory and Australian Capital Territory. In 1965 the arrangements were extended and the Act was amended to include two extra diseases, namely vesicular stomatitis and vesicular exanthema. These arrangements were reviewed in January 1978 by the Australian Agricultural Council which consists of Commonwealth and State Ministers for Primary Industry. This review resulted in an extension of the arrangements to cover a full list of exotic diseases instead of the present three. It now includes rinderpest, swine fever, African swine fever, rabies, Newcastle disease, fowl plague, bluetongue and swine vesicular diseasealmost everything except dandruff and flat feet, one might say. 
The arrangements now also provide for control measures in circumstances where eradication is considered impractical as well as eradication measures. Control, of course, usually means vaccination and quarantine or destruction of diseased animals. I am a bit vague on the question of whether the Department of Primary Industry or the Department of Health would be responsible in the case, say, of a major outbreak of bluetongue. Neither this Bill nor the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  whilst they detail all the arrangements regarding the financing of control measures, indicates what contingency plans are in existence to cope with such an outbreak. The Opposition would welcome a statement from the Minister detailing all of the arrangements necessary to see that any exotic disease can be quickly and effectively contained. 
The legislation in principle allows that when any animals are destroyed under such a control measure, compensation is paid in accordance with Federal-State agreed policy. I will quote one example that will demonstrate that these arrangements need to be simplified and streamlined to enable prompt action to be taken by the authorities concerned without a lot of red tape to be overcome to ensure that the somewhat vague guidelines are complied with. The example that I wish to give is one that was quoted by  Dr Rushford,  the  Deputy  Chief of the Animal Health Division of the Victorian Department of Agriculture, at the Federal Council of Poultry Farmers Associations of Australia on 5 April 1976. Briefly, the incident was that on Sunday, 19 January 1976, fowl plague was discovered in Victoria, leading to the eventual slaughter of about 60,000 birds. The dilemma involved the decision of the State Department of Agriculture to order the slaughter of the infected birds. 
A reluctance to make this order was prompted by the lack of firm guidelines. The decision eventually was delayed until a firm assurance was obtained from the Australian Agricultural Council that compensation would be paid. This led to no action being authorised until 6 a.m. on the following Wednesday, 22 January. The slaughter was eventually completed on 26 February 1976.  Dr Rushford  has said of this incident that the 60-hour delay in reaching a firm decision would have been disastrous if this outbreak had been Newcastle disease, for instance, instead of fowl plague. The Opposition supports the Bill and applauds the co-operation between the States and the Commonwealth to ensure that exotic diseases of all kinds are kept under control in Australia, thus maintaining our animal industries in the very healthy, traditional state; in fact it is a state envied by most of the rest of the world. While doing so, we in the Opposition call upon the Minister for a full and definitive statement setting out simple and streamlined guidelines to ensure the efficient implementation of the worthy aims of this Bill. 
I turn to the other two Bills that are being considered. The Live-stock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill 1978 is being considered concurrently with the Live-stock Export Charge Amendment Bill 1978. The first Bill increases the maximum rate leviable on cattle, buffaloes, sheep, lambs and goats slaughtered for human consumption. These levies along with the complementary charges on livestock exports, are used to finance the operations of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. Payments to the research account operated by the Australian Meat Research Committee are also financed from this levy as well as some research carried out by the 
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the National Cattle Disease Eradication Trust Account. But this levy and the charges made under the Live-stock Export Charge Act 1977, which is concurrently being amended, are broken into a number of components according to the purpose for which the money is raised. 
The components dealt with in this series of amendments are for meat research, meat processing research and the administration of the AMLC. The Bill specifies maximum rates for only the first two of a total of three components; therefore the third component is left as a residual possible maximum rate. Payments to the National Cattle Disease Eradication Trust Account are levied or charged only on cattle and buffaloes. Neither of these Bills alters payment on this component. 
Operative rates for the meat processing research components are currently set at the maximum permissible under the Act. Increases in these rates have been recommended to the Government by the AMLC. These Bills of course will implement them. Other maximum components, although currently still above the operative rates, are being increased at this time. The Government matches research funds expended from moneys raised from producers through two research components on a dollar-for-dollar basis. The proposed increases in the maximum rates for cattle and buffalo for the levy components that are provided for by the Bill are: Meat research, from 25c to 50c; meat processing research, from lc to 4c; and the total for the above two components plus administration of the AMLC, from 75c to $1.50. 
I think those charges are worthy of examination. Presently meat research levy is 25c and we want to increase it to 50c; the meat processing research levy is lc and we want to increase it to 4c; the levy for administration of the AMLC is 30c and it will remain at 30c. The possible maximum rate that the present Act allows at this stage is 75c. The new amendment will alter the possible maximum rate to 84c. At the present maximum . rate of 75c in fact the levy being paid is only 56c. This new amendment proposes to double that possible maximum rate from 75c to $ 1.50 but of that $1.50, only 84c is presently being levied. So it would appear to me that plenty of scope is left for the charge to be increased. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
-When the suspension of the sitting for dinner cut me off in full flight I was speaking about the maximums that are available under the present legislation with regard to slaughter levies. I pointed out that the present possible maximum is 75c and that the levy being charged is 56c. The new legislation will allow for a maximum of $1.50 and only 84c is to be levied for the time being. I have no doubt that the slack will be taken up in due course. I might add in passing that this evening I endeavoured to help the beef producers by having a lovely steak in the dining room. The levy to finance the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation has not been increased. However, the Government has forecast its intention to do so in the near future. Given that fact and the fact that the sheep levy is now only about half the existing maximum allowable, one wonders why the sheep maximum levy is being doubled. The changes have been recommended to the Government by the AMLC. There has been no audible protest from the producers, and there is a good reason for that. The implementation of the 1977 amendments to the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Collection Amendment Act meant that slaughterers were no longer able to pass back the slaughter levy to the livestock producers in the traditional way that they had done for many years, provided that the cattle were killed within 30 days of purchase. This imposed on the owner a responsibility at the time of slaughter for the payment of the full slaughter levy, a total of $1.56 per head. It is no wonder, therefore, that producers have exhibited no resistence to these new measures, which have increased an already heavy impost on the slaughterer. The theory propounded at the time of the 1977 change was that the purchaser of livestock would be able to discount this expanded levy by reducing the price paid to the producer. I rather believe that at this time of heightened cattle prices the levy tends to be absorbed further down the production line, almost at the marketing end. I suggest that the consumer is now paying a large share of that levy. 
As a person who is closely identified with the meat industry, I am not quibbling about increased cattle prices because they are very necessary. I do not think that anybody concerned with the industry or with Australia's future, taking into consideration our great dependence on primary industry, would quibble about farmers getting increased prices for their cattle. The rates they have been getting over the last two years have been depressingly low. The reasons for these depressed prices are many and varied, not the least being the producers own over-production in Australia without a large export market. We have not had such a market for the last couple of years, or at least not one able to sustain profitably a cattle population which I estimate to be about 40 million head. 
Getting back to the Bill, the legislation now allows a maximum of $1.50 and the charge to be levied is only 84c There is plenty of scope remaining for the charge to be increased. In fact, as I pointed out, the charge paid by the butcher at the point of slaughter is $1.56 because, as well as the three components of the levy that are involved in these amendments- meat research, meat process research, and the administration costs of the AMLC- the butcher also pays $1 towards disease eradication. So under the old legislation his total impost was $1.56; under these new amendments it will be $1.84. However, it is possible under the new legislation for the Minister to increase that amount to $2.50 at whim, and recent history would indicate that that is more than likely to occur. I suggest that the Minister will not delay too long in increasing the component of the levy which pays for the AMLC. 
I feel that it would be proper at this stage of my remarks to refer to the failure of the Minister for Primary Industry to implement his mid- 1977 promise to set up an elected producers consultative group. Such a body was to be established under the provisions of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation Act 1977 and, according to the promise, was to be operating by March 1 978. An interim consultative group was set up at that time to facilitate the commencement of operations of the AMLC, but the people involved were nominated by the various producer groups. A firm commitment was given at that time to have an elected body to advise the AMLC. 
Many excuses have been advanced since that date for the body not having been elected, including the extreme workload of the Australian Electoral Office. Given the penchant of the present Government to have elections every 12 or 18 months, I would not deny that it has had a heavy workload. I doubt whether the Government is prepared at this time to give it an extra workload, for various reasons that I will not canvass now. Secondly, the cost of $250,000 to hold the election has been suggested as a reason why it has not been held. Surely when the Minister made the promise he realised that the cost would have been as high as that anyhow, and I dismiss that as a reason. There is a third argument- that not all producer groups support the idea. That is a possibility. I would not deny it. The last reason given is that the stage one report on the amalgamation of producer groups called for the establishment of a federal cattle council to provide the membership of the producer consultative group. That too is probably a reasonable excuse, but I still think that the Minister should act, under the existing situation, to see that the producers' consultative group is elected to advise the AMLC in its operations. 
One of the producer groups that was to be represented on the consultative group was the Australian Cattlemen's Union. I think it is pertinent in the terms of this debate to mention that group, particularly its spokesman,  Mr Barry  Cassell. Anyone who read the Sydney newspapers last Sunday would have been astounded at the inflammatory and colourful statements reported as having been made by  Mr Cassell.  He talked of a cattle Mafia operating in the north-west of New South Wales in the cattle markets of Tamworth, Gunnedah, Moree, Narrabri and Manilla. 
-The honourable member on my left, who is from the National Country Party, says that he was quoted correctly. 
-I am pleased to hear that the honourable member thinks  Mr Cassell  has made some exaggerated statements. I am sure that all the producers who are selling cattle in the other markets in New South Wales would be delighted to have that Mafia operating in their areas. There is no doubt in the world that the dearest cattle in New South Wales are in the north-west area where  Mr Cassell  alleges that this Mafia is operating. He talked of a buyer operating for a lot of butchers, and that too is correct. There are a lot of small operators in that area who cannot afford to put in an individual buyer. There are commission buyers there who might be buying cattle of different grades and types for four or five different operators.  Mr Cassell  talked of lot splitting. That may have been relevant 20 years ago, but nowadays, with live weight selling, cattle are sold in lots of 14 or 15, and I doubt whether anybody would seriously consider that as a threat. In any case, if  Mr Cassell  has some concrete evidence to indicate that that is happening, why does he not come forward with it? We all know that it is illegal. I certainly have not heard any complaints from stock and station agents about it happening and I am sure that  Mr Cassell  does not really have any concrete information of any relevance to produce. 
If  Mr Cassell  has the best interests of the industry at heart, I think he would be well advised to be very careful in his statements. I wonder whether he does have the best interests of the industry at heart. I cannot think of one concrete advantage that has come about for the cattle industry- for producers or anyone else- since the advent of the Cattlemen's Union. Most cattle these days are sold on a live weight basis. It is a matter of fact that at the time of the implementation of live weight selling there was a great deal of co-operation between various sections of the industry. It was promoted by a group called the Livestock Buyers Association. In conjunction with producers, stock and station agents and the Department of Agriculture, it set up the ground rules for live weight stock selling and they are still being observed. I believe that since  Mr Cas  sells advent on the scene a great deal of that cooperation has been lost. He is now promoting the sort of divisiveness that unfortunately is always identified with this industry. The producers think of the butchers or the processors as their hated enemies, sworn to rob them. I would have felt that, with maturity and sophistication in the industry, it largely was being removed and that all sections of the industry realise that they are all depending on that industry for their living and are all prepared to make an honest endeavour to see that it works and works correctly. What  Mr Cassell  is doing is destroying that good cooperation, that spirit of mutual existence. 
He is a rabble rouser, as the honourable member says. That is true. When  Mr Cassell  starts making these accusations, I would like him to realise that he is accusing some of the most honourable business firms in Australia, firms with a tradition of honourable trading. I refer to such firms as Anderson Meat Packing Co. Pty Ltd, F. J. Walker Ltd, Riverstone Meat Co. Pty Ltd, Tancred Bros Pty Ltd- I am sorry that the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume),  who is to be the next  speaker,  is not in the House, as he surely would back me up on Tancred Bros Pty Ltd- Thomas Borthwick and Sons, Presto Meat Service Pty Ltd and A. J. Bush and Sons Pty Ltd. These are some of the most honourable names in any business in Australia, not just in the livestock business. These are the people he is accusing of cheap charlatan tricks to depress the price of cattle. These things cannot be substantiated. I would like to think that, when this Producers Consultative Group is eventually formed and the members are elected, the Minister for Primary Industry will think very hard about giving the Cattlemen's Union a place on the Group and whether  Mr Cassell's  actions are in any way representative of the mass feeling of the people in that group. 
-It is a very emotive matter. Just getting away from  Mr Cassell  for a moment- I think I can find more pleasant things to talk about- I would like to talk about the increasing cost of producing meat. I think that even members of the National Country Party would believe that livestock selling is the start of the operation and that livestock has to be transferred eventually into meat before it is turned into cash. The wholesale butcher, the retailer and the processor are charged with the responsibility of getting money back to the farmer. He obviously cannot go to the bank with 50 bullocks and bank them, because the bank manager will not accept them- even though they are likely to leave a bonus. He wants cash. 
At the other end of the industry are the people who are charged with the responsibility of turning those cattle into cash. In the last few days I have gone to the trouble of getting some figures on the cost of producing meat from cattle from the gentleman who succeeded me as the  Chairman  of the New South Wales Wholesale Meat Traders Association. Funnily enough, his name is Don Sinclair. I doubt that he is any relation to the Minister, but it is a good solid name. I would like to quote some of the figures he has been able to give me. The figures relate to cattle bought at Tamworth- in the Mafia area. We have shifted the Mafia area north, apparently. I had a feeling that it was in the south-west of New South Wales. In any case, it has now shifted to Tamworth, according to  Mr Cassell.  The costs I am going to quote cover cattle bought in Tamworth, slaughtered at Gunnedah and forwarded by refrigerated rail to the Homebush meat markets and then to retail shops. The litany of charges reads thus: Commission buyer, $1 a head; transport to works, $3 a head; kill charge, $16.65 a head - 
-That would be absolutely correct. Gunnedah would have the second lowest rate in New South Wales. Casino would have the lowest. 
They do not kill cattle there. Let me continue with the charges: Hide handling, 52c; cattle compensation, 10c; livestock levy- the figure of which I spoke earlier- $1.56; inspection fees, $1.50- that is for the State inspection service, part of the dual inspection service which has been robbing the meat industry for many years- freight and loan out from Gunnedah, $6; Meat Board charges at Homebush to unload and load into the meat depot, $6.32; and the cartage to a butcher shop, $5.70 a carcass. That is a total of $42.35 a carcass. Of course, there are some refunds because the cattle hides at the present time are worth $20 and the offal is worth about $1.50. So, in fact, the impost per carcass is about $2 1. It is no wonder, therefore, that butchers are worrying very much about an increase under this legislation. I think they are prepared to accept it if, in the terms of the legislation, that money is put to good use. I will speak about that a little later. 
The industry generally and the Minister for Primary Industry should have a look at the enormous increase in the cost of handling meat over the last few years. Unfortunately, in the last two years I have seen many very respected people in the meat industry in New South Wales have to close their doors by virtue of increasing costs. Within the last month, two firms that members of the National Country Party, particularly those who are in the cattle industry, would recognise- E. J. Ashcroft and Sons Ltd and Bawn Pty Ltd, both of which have been operating in New South Wales and, perhaps, throughout Australia for the last 50 years- have seen fit to cease business because of the prevailing high cost of production. It was just not a feasible operation to keep going. They have had to close their doors. I feel that it is a matter of some regret that that has happened. Those firms, like the larger firms I mentioned earlier, were firms that traded in the highest possible fashion, firms that had the highest reputation for business integrity and decency. It is a pity to see them go to the wall. All of these things being considered, including the fact that we have enormous problems in the meat industry in New South Wales and in Australia at the present time, it does not stop me as a butcher and us as an Opposition supporting the Bill. 
The objects of the increase in levy are to be commended. The levy is for three areas of positive improvement. Part of the levy goes to the Meat Research Laboratory at Cannon Hill, Queensland. The meat industry generally will applaud any moves to see that that sort of research leads to a more healthy industry. There is also a component that allows for meat processing research. It is not a very big one, unfortunately. I think that is an area at which we probably could look even further. It does offer some sort of help in research of a scientific nature into the processing of meat. I think I have mentioned in the House before that there is no doubt in the world that the meat eaten by Australian consumers is the best meat in the world. There is no question about that. Even the meat produced by Tancred Bros Pty Ltd- this makes the honourable member for Macarthur nod his head- is of the highest quality in the world. I suggest to all producers who are critical of the butchering end of the industry that they go to Sydney and have a look at the butcher shops that are run, for instance, by A. J. Bush and Sons Pty Ltd, and then travel the world and see whether they can find the product of the farmer being presented in a more hygienic, more attractive fashion that it is presented in the butcher shops of the A. J. Bush company. It even has a shop at St Ives. Most things at St Ives- except the local member- are of high quality. I really believe that the meat industry is pulling its weight so far as the total entity of the cattle trade is concerned. 
Although this Bill increases the impost that the butchers have to pay, I as a butcher and we as an Opposition support it because we believe in the benefits which can come from this increased levy, if it is used responsibly and also if the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation, which is being funded from this slaughter levy, can do the job that is set out for it and find new markets for our exports- I know that it is endeavouring to do so in the Middle East at the moment, although belatedly- and no doubt bring a greater source of information and advice to the industry than the old fashioned Australian Meat Board. In that event we are not concerned about this increase in the levy. We feel that it is well intentioned and we are sure that in the long run it is going to be of great advantage to the industry. 
Before concluding, having spelt out quite clearly that we do support the principle of this Bill, I wonder whether the Minister, given my argument that the butchering end, the processing end, the retailing end of the industry is a very important component of the cattle industry, would give serious consideration to increasing the representation of that end of the industry on the AMLC. Unfortunately I have to criticise the New South Wales State Government in this regard, as it is forming a meat authority with 13 people on it, including only one person from the meat end of the industry. I have no doubt that the Minister is well intentioned, but I hope that he sees the error of his ways. I suggest to the Minister for Primary Industry that when he is looking at the AMLC- I hope that it can have a greater say in making this a national industry and perhaps in removing the iniquitous impost on the industry of the dual inspection service- he look at it in those lights. In conclusion I say that we on this side of the House support the Bill. 
-Has the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations read an article by  Mr Greg  Hywood in today's  Australian Financial Review  which claims that average weekly earnings in the year to September rose by a percentage less than the consumer price index increase for the same period? In the light of this information and with regard to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission's February decision to discount the wage rise for the December quarter last year partly because of tax cuts in February this year, will the Government consider instructing its advocate at the Arbitration Commission's hearings on the wage indexation case to support the argument of the Australian Council of Trade Union's advocate that the November tax increase should be taken into account by the Bench in its present deliberations just as the February tax decrease was taken into account earlier this year? 
The Opposition supports the Bill. Constant on-going research programs are an essential part of good marketing procedures. We applaud the poultry industry's acknowledgement of this and the fact that farmers are prepared to put their money where their- I hesitate to say 'beak'- mouth is. This Bill seeks to raise by $100,000 the amount available for research into marketing and the general economics of the industry. I guess that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  would have an interest in this Bill because in the suburb of Seven Hills in your electorate there is a very large poultry research station. Whilst there are very few poultry farmers in Parramatta, except perhaps the ones down the road from me who have a few chooks in the backyard, I do not suppose I need to lay an egg to be a judge of an omelette. So I feel I am justified in speaking on this Bill. 
-He is a bird lover as well. That is true. For the benefit of those people outside the industry and the Parliament who are not aware of the existing legislation and arrangements concerning poultry research, I would like to give a brief account of the Bill's history. Before I do that, I point out that I am disturbed to see that no member of the National Country Party, with the exception of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  is present in the House. I would have thought that when we were debating a Bill which is intimately concerned with the people whom they are supposed to represent they would be present in the House. They certainly would be here if we were discussing uranium. I am surprised that they are not here when we are discussing eggs. Perhaps yellowcake is more important to them than yellow yokes. 
In 1966, the Poultry Industry Assistance Act 1965 was amended to allow for a Commonwealth and industry combined cost sharing of a research program. The Commonwealth paid into the Poultry Industry Trust Fund- known as the pm- amounts equal to those raised through the hen levy. I will not go into the full ramifications of the hen levy but one of the speakers who follow me in the debate may do so. The money paid into the PITF is basically for three purposes. Firstly, the hen levy gathered from all States is redistributed back to the States to stabilise domestic and export unit costs. Secondly, part of that levy is kept aside- $100,000 in this case- and is the industry's contribution to research. The Commonwealth, out of Consolidated Revenue, puts up a corresponding amount for research, that is, an amount up to $100,000 contributed on a shared dollar for dollar basis. The third purpose is the refinancing of Reserve Bank loans to State egg boards. This Bill is concerned with the second of those functions, that is, the amount shared between the Commonwealth and the industry for research. The proposal is for an extra $100,000 to be contributed-$50,000 from each partner, the Commonwealth and the industry. This has come as a request from the industry through the CEMAA, that is, the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia. 
I would like to quote from the fourth report of the Poultry Research Advisory Committee, which covers the period from July 1975 to June 1977. That body has been set up under the umbrella of the CEMAA. In this report the  chairman, Mr R.  B. Fuge, states: 
Research is a tool to be used to the advantage of industry. To be effective it should tackle immediate and short-term problems and assess areas for study with the aim of maintaining and improving consumer demand in the market place. 
I said earlier that we commend the industry for being prepared to boost its share of the cost of the research programs. I would like to elaborate on that point. Since 1968 the Poultry Research Advisory Committee, the PRAC, has allocated the vast majority of its funds to projects that have been designed to improve or increase egg production. The Minister mentioned in his second reading speech such points as disease control, nutritional studies, egg quality and genetic improvement as examples of this research. All these areas are designed to improve and or increase production. While they are commendable in themselves, these projects have done little to help the industry to promote and sell more eggs. The public is getting a far superior product because of this research but it is not buying any more eggs because of the advances in the industry. It is a pity. 
It is for this reason, as well as simply keeping up with inflation, that more money is needed. Research needs to expand into the market place as well as the laboratories of the nation. Money is needed so that the decline in egg consumption which has become noticeable will be overcome. On this point I would like to expand on the state of the egg industry. Over the past decade there has been a continuing trend towards larger nocks. In 1966-67, for example, only 2 per cent of poultry farms had flocks of 5,000 or more hens. By comparison, in 1976-77 about 17 per cent of all registered farms had flocks of this size. There has been a steady consolidation within the poultry industry which has seen the decline of the small poultry farmer. Of course that does not take into account the unknown quantity in the egg production area, that is, the backyard farmer or the small farmer who is not registered. No one really knows for what percentage of production they are responsible but it is believed to be of the order of 30 per cent. 
The fact that industry has consolidated into larger flocks with the decline of the small poultry farmer is regrettable because it has meant that many have fallen by the wayside. But in other ways, it makes for a more efficient and rewarding occupation for those people who remain in the business of egg production. This consolidation is partly the result of the quota system which the States have instigated and partly due to natural economic trends. Figures that have been taken from the annual report made under the Poultry Industry Assistance Act 1965-66 on the operation of the Act and which has been brought together in a readily digestible form in the Bureau of Agricultural Economics publication  Eggs: Situation and Outlook 1978  give a good graphic indication of this consolidation within the poultry industry. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  some of these statistics which indicate the number of poultry farms, the number of leviable hens and the average flock size by State. They are quite interesting statistics because they illustrate the points that I have been making. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="112131197811172_29_0.jpg"></graphic>

-In 1965-66, for instance, there were 16,891 poultry farms in Australia. In 1976-77, by comparison, there were only 3,730 farms. Similarly, the number of leviable hens in 1965-66 was 9,485. In 1976-77, with consequent increases in population, there were only 10,686 hens- not a really appreciable increase which would tend to suggest either that we are eating fewer eggs or the hens are laying more eggs. That is a question at which we should look more closely. A decline in the production of eggs has been evident from 1974 and, due to an epidemic of Marek's disease resulting in heavy stock losses, 1976-77 also showed a very low level. This steady decline has been the result of the hen quotas which have been operating nationwide for a couple of years. This has had the desirable effect of bringing the rate of production closer to the rate of domestic demand, thus reducing the amount of stock needed to be exported at lower costs. This of course helps the stabilising process although in 1976 Australia's stock of exportable egg product was so low that Japan which is almost our exclusive customer- it takes about 99 per cent of our egg productlooked elsewhere. I think that is another matter at which we should look. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics in its publication  Eggs: Situation and Outlook,  in talking about Japan, stated: ... in 1976-77, they accounted for more than 97 per cent ... of all eggs packed or processed for export. In the case of the major export product, egg pulp, it would seem that Japan is likely to remain the only important market. A general slowing in the rate of economic growth has reduced Japanese import demand for eggs since 1973. Also, in 1976, South Africa and China increased their shares of the Japanese market to 25 per cent and 23 per cent respectively compared with 19 per cent and 17 per cent respectively the year before. The proportion of the Japanese market supplied by Australia declined from 47 per cent in 1975 to 45 per cent in 1976. 
It would appear that that is one area where more research is needed, perhaps not to increase the size of the Japanese market that we have but. surely to find some other markets. South Africa and China have got under our guard and increased their share of the Japanese market, as I just pointed out. This balance between output and consumption, which seemed to be occurring, has recently shown signs of reversing. The BAE suggests that the 1977-78 levels of production are expected to rise again while, conversely, there is evidence to show that consumption is on the decline. This is the irony of the whole situation. Research is overcoming the problems of disease which has a natural culling effect on flock sizes and also improving the quality and quantity of egg production for each hen. But this is happening at a time when the public is losing interest in the mighty egg. The BAE states: 
Changes in tastes and dietary habits appear to have resulted in a switch away from the consumption of eggs. 
Overall, in 1976-77 there was a net decline in domestic consumption of 2.6 million dozen eggs or 1.7 per cent from the level of the previous year. Perhaps for the meat and egg industries the quicker we get back to eating steak and eggs as our staple diet the better for all concerned. Those figures take into account a slight increase in other egg products. It is for this reason that the industry is suggesting an increase in the money that is available for research so that it might increase consumption and thus take advantage of the production increases which are a direct result of scientific research into the field of poultry biology. It is commendable that the industry has opted to increase the pool, that is, to expand the available finances for market research rather than to cut back on its biological research programs. 
The poultry research scheme urgently needs to look at new ways to tempt the gourmet with its products. Egg and spoon picnic races, whipped egg white facials and of course the ubiquitous strawberry pavlova can only account for so much of this difference between output and consumption. New ideas are needed and this takes money. I might put in a word here for the egg white facial which I just mentioned. My great grandmother, who is rather an elderly lady swears by it. She plasters her face with whipped egg white, sits back with a glass of good brandy and, with her feet up in a comfortable position, contemplates passages from the  Kama Sutra  for an hour every day. She has the countenance of a girl of 20 years. I am not sure which of the three commodities accounts for her radiance but whichever it is it works; I would like to think that it is the eggs. So there are ways of looking at the humble egg, a little lateral thinking perhaps, which could open new vistas. 
-That is a question that probably a man with the honourable member's Irish background might be able to solve for me. On a more serious note, during my discussions with personnel in the industry one recurring theme emerged. Prominent people in the area of poultry research have commented on what they see as egg politics, working against the better interests of the industry. The Council for Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia has the power of veto over what research projects will be approved. This body, which is made up of State representatives and apparently State interests as against overall interests sometimes militates against the recommendations of the Poultry Research Advisory Committee. It seems fruitless for the CEMAA to set up an advisory body such as PRAC if it is not prepared to accept its recommendations. According to my sources, the Minister is aware of this dissatisfaction amongst the research people. They say that PRAC has the experts, is in touch with research and knows in what direction the poultry research scheme should be going. While CEMAA is able to overrule this advice by its power of veto, for whatever reason, the industry is not getting the best value for its research dollar. A great deal of time is wasted while CEMAA debates the issue. These people are being paid for their services, so there is a waste if their advice is not accepted. 
For the 1976-77 research programs PRAC effectively reported direct to the Minister rather than to the Minister through CEMAA. This procedure was hailed by many in the industry as a major breakthrough. The appointed panel of experts of PRAC judged all projects on their scientific merit and their relevance to the industry, and allocated funds accordingly. It was seen as a truly national effort. There has since been a reversal and the 1978-79 program recommended by the research body has once again had to be submitted to CEMAA, which seems to be a backward step. It seems ludicrous for this expert body to report to a political group which has vested State interests and which can veto a project for any reason. In one particular year it vetoed the total research program. It is time that the Poultry Research Advisory Committee was given the authority it deserves because of its expertise and knowledge. It should have the right to report direct to the Minister for Primary Industry. The Opposition supports the increased amount of $50,000 as being the Commonwealth's share of the expanded research pool. We trust it will be well used. 
The Opposition basically supports the Bills relating to the Australian dried fruits industry and recognises the importance of the dried fruits industry to the Australian economy. Whilst there are no dried fruit growers in the Parramatta electorate, I think it is pertinent to suggest at this stage that the grape industry started in Parramatta along with the granny smith industry and a few other industries so I guess it gives me some reason to speak on this Bill. There is also the fact that we have a great number of fruit cake eaters in Parramatta who are very concerned about the dried fruit industry, particularly with Christmas coming along. In opposition to the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  I do not think we can totally subscribe to his views that the Labor Party in office did great damage to the agricultural industry. I do not think that is the case at all. The fact that we are supporting these Bills is evidence that on this side of the House we are very worried about the agricultural industry and we are very anxious to support it. I know we are accused of being socialists. We make no apologies for that but we consider our socialist activity should extend to the country as well as to the city. It is for that and many other reasons that we support these Bills. 
Australia ranks approximately equal third with Greece among the world producers of dried fruits, after the United States and Turkey and ahead of Iran. In the 1977 season Australia produced 64,467 tonnes of dried vine fruits. As you would know, that would make a lot of fruit cakes. The value to the Australian economy in the year 1977-78 was $55.4m of domestic sales and $35. 8m from exports, so it is obvious that this is a very big revenue earner in both the domestic and export areas, so it is the reason for our concern. Of the dried fruit produced in 1977, 56.2 per cent was consumed by the export market and 43.8 per cent by the domestic market. However, the industry is beset by several problems. As indicated by the production figures, domestic prices for dried vine fruits are maintained at a higher level than export prices. In order to regulate this situation the industry has since 1911, operated a voluntary system of equalising the returns from domestic and export outlets through the Australian Dried Fruits Association. 
This voluntary scheme is now increasingly subject to the pressures of developing competition between dried fruit producers with the inherent risk that fruit will be diverted from the export market to the domestic market which, whilst more lucrative is less able to absorb increased production. This is one of the reasons why I am suggesting to all those who may be listening that they should be buying another fruit cake for Christmas to support this wonderful industry. Export prices fluctuate greatly from year to year according to world supply and economic conditions in the consuming countries; unfortunately incomes received by growers have fallen behind those of other sectors of the economy for equivalent investments of capital and skills. Hence many farms producing dried vine fruits are not economically viable units. The Industries Assistance Commission in its 1976 report on dried vine fruit stated that in Sunraysia, one of the major grape growing areas of New South Wales, 'between thirty and forty per cent of the present commercial farms have little prospect of viability as full time fruit growers.' Further, 'a major reorganisation of the industry is therefore necessary.' 
The purpose of the four Bills before the house is the establishment of a statutory scheme for equalising market returns for dried vine fruits and restructuring of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board to provide it with additional powers. The Australian Dried Fruits Corporation Bill 1978 seeks to establish the Australian Dried Fruits Corporation to replace the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board. It reduces the number of members of the Board to eight, of whom four will be representatives of the growers. The Corporation will continue to carry out the functions of the Board and will have the additional function of administering the statutory equalisation scheme. The Dried Vine Fruits Equalization Levy Bill 1978 aims to impose a levy upon certain dried vine fruits in order to meet the objectives of the Dried Vine Fruits Equalization Bill. That is all very involved, but what it amounts to is that the four Bills complement one another. 
The Dried Vine Fruits Equalization Bill seeks to place the previously voluntary system of equalisation on a statutory footing. The levy is collected on fruit destined for the domestic market and held in an equalisation fund maintained by the Australian Dried Fruits Corporation. This levy represents the amount by which the anticipated average return from the domestic market for the variety exceeds the assessed average export return. Thus fruit sold on the Australian market will receive an initial return comparable to the anticipated average level of return from similar fruit sold on the export market. I said at the outset of this speech that the Opposition basically supports the Bills relating to the Australian dried vine fruits inustry. I would point out that the Industries Assistance Commission Report of 1976 relating to the dried vine fruits industry recommends the replacement of the equalisation scheme by a two pool system of marketing. The two pool system provides for the separation of the domestic market from the export market. I think a great number of growers would prefer that scheme. My colleague on my right says he doubts that but I know a great number of growers who believe that the scheme as proposed by the Industries Assistance Commission would be preferable to the Government scheme. I will have to agree to disagree with him on that small point. 
Growers are allocated quotas or entitlements to a share of the higher priced domestic market. Production additional to these entitlements would be paid for at the market price. The advantage of this scheme is that it gives the producers the incentive to sell their over-quota production only to those export markets they find profitable. Decisions to produce dried vine fruit would be made on the basis of the actual values of additional output, thus eliminating the costs of resource misallocation and allowing the owners of non-viable holdings better to transfer their resources to other activities by selling their domestic market shares. In short, the two-pool system would better facilitate the necessary restructuring of the industry than would the equalisation scheme. 
The final Bill before the House, the Dried Fruits Export Charges Amendment Bill 1978, seeks to introduce amendments to the Dried Fruits Export Charges Act 1924 that are consequent to the Australian Dried Fruits Corporation Bill 1978. With reservations regarding the preference of the two-pool scheme recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission over the equalisation scheme, the Opposition supports the four Bills relating to the dried fruit industry. It is fortuitous that the first season of the statutory equalisation scheme, 1979, should produce circumstances in which the export return exceeds the domestic return. This came about through the substantial failure of the 1978 Californian crop of grapes. I guess that that could be a cause of great worry to Dean Martin and others in California who like a drop of wine. It may have a very good effect on our situation in Australia in that export prices in 1978-79 will be extremely high. We feel that perhaps this year the equalisation scheme might not cost that much money. In short, we support this Bill because we believe that this industry- along with many other agricultural industries- needs the support of the Government. The Opposition supports the Government's effort to supply that support. 
We certainly do not have any dairies in Parramatta; that is true. But given the fact that we are very clean living people, one of our biggest selling products is milk shakes. So that gives me some vested interest in this Bill. Members of my family were dairy farmers on the North Coast and I was brought up in a scenario of paspalum, mud, hand milking and hardship. So I have great sympathy for the dairy farmers and for the situation in which they find themselves at the moment. Their industry is fairly non-profitable and is certainly downtrodden to a great extent. I regret the fact that many of the small holdings of dairy farmers have disappeared to be replaced by the big monopolies, particularly in New South Wales, but even with the monopolies the profitability rate is still fairly low. I applaud the fact that this Bill does to some extent help promote the products of dairy farms. 
I shall make just a few general comments on dairies and my interests in them. Unfortunately, I do not think the dairy industry in Australia has yet realised how well it could diversify into the production of high class vealers. I am talking about vealers in the European sense. In Yugoslavia and Holland particularly the production of veal is one of the biggest industries. It is really an eye-opener for an Australian person to go to Europe, as I have done recently and before then, and see the sort of veal that is available for sale in butchers' shops. I am glad that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  happens to be sitting at the table. I hope he is taking note of what I have to say. I would like to think that the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation would try to encourage the dairy industry to look at the possibility of a European-type veal production, particularly in Sydney where we have an enormous continental population as a result of the immigration program that has been operating since the Great War. I think there is a very great opportunity for the dairy industry to integrate itself into the veal industry. I am sure that the market is there for the high class veal which is available in Europe and which is not available in Australia. I would suggest to members of the industry that perhaps they should look at the stall breeding of vealers especially for the high class veal market. I am sure that is another way that they could return themselves to profitability. 
The Bill proposes to amend the Dairy Produce Sales Promotion Act 1958 in order to widen the definition of 'dairy produce' to include products such as market milk, cream and fresh milk products. Market milk and fresh milk products represent the most profitable outlet for milk in Australia and it is therefore important that the Australian Dairy Corporation should be able to promote these produtcs, thus benefiting the dairy industry as a whole. The dairy industry has for years been in a state of severe depression. I do not think anybody would deny that. A poll by the paper the  National Farmer  last year found the dairy industry more dissatisfied than any other farm group. Of course, there are plenty of farm groups that are dissatisfied. That seems to be fairly traditional, with all due respect to the farmers sitting at the table. But the dairy industry seems to be more dissatisfied than most, probably for good reasons. 
-The honourable member is not bad at the bull so I suppose that gives him a start on the dairy farmers' operations. The majority of dairy farmers find themselves working long hours for an income which is significantly below the national average. Many of them and their wives and children are forced to take outside jobs in order to keep their farms. It is little wonder that morale is low in the industry. Farmers have been forced to leave the industry at an average annual rate of about 8 per cent since 1970. In that year Australia supported nearly 60,000 dairy farmers. Today the total is about half that number. In the 1977-78 financial year alone the number of dairy farms declined by 2,500. Those who are forced to leave their farms are faced with a difficult decision. Their fathers and grandfathers battled to make a living from their farms and for many of them farming is the only life they know, which of course makes it very difficult for them to take on jobs in other occupations. 
The depressed condition of the dairy industry has been produced by a number of factors. In all areas of farming and particularly in many dairying areas adverse climatic conditions result in up to eight months of bad weather in a year. It is therefore necessary for farmers to struggle to grow enough feed to tide them over the bad times, and often a period of prolonged drought is followed by severe flooding. Soaring costs of commodities such as winter feed and fertilisers have meant that farm costs are in many cases increasing at a greater rate than farm revenue, thereby producing declining net returns to farmers. The international market for dairy products has for some time been unstable and very sensitive to change in the volume of supplies traded, thus giving low export returns. The situation is little better on the domestic market where declining population growth and changes in demand patterns coupled with poor prices, have significantly reduced returns to dairy farmers. 
-I think it is quite significant that I should follow the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  in this debate on the poultry industry because who above the honourable member for Fadden in this House would have more regard for a nest egg? He is not of the domestic type of fowl but of the cuckoo type, which has been known to value the golden eggs in someone else's nest, about which the Press has been able to tell us in the last couple of days. I thought the only knowledge he had of eggs was from the amount of egg he gets on his face on occasions. 
Before I launch into the Bills it is worth pointing out to those in the House or those who might be listening the almost total absence of National Country Party members from the House when we are debating an agricultural Bill. The important exception is the member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)-  I would like that noted. The Minister Assisting the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Adermann)  is here also. Apart from them, National Country Party members are conspicuous by their absence. Where are the rest of them? If the House is debating a uranium Bill, if the dollar signs are ticking around, the National Country Party members are here en masse. But when we are debating an agricultural Bill- a Bill which will be to the benefit of the people whom the National Country Party members are supposed to represent, namely, the little farmers of Australia- where are the members of the once great National Country Party? They are out feathering their nests somewhere else while the responsible members of the Australian Labor Party from city electorates are here doing their best to support those farmers. 
-No, 38. The bills before the House relate to different aspects of the poultry industry, but both Bills represent an attempt to improve the conditions of the industry. The Opposition therefore supports the Bills. 
I turn to the first of the Bills, the Poultry Industry Levy Amendment Bill. This Bill seeks to increase the maximum rate of the Commonwealth hen levy from the present $1 to $2 a hen per annum. The Federal hen levy is being raised basically to meet losses on export sales by equalising domestic-export market returns to poultry farmers in each State. The export market in eggs and egg products absorbs excess domestic consumption. In 1977-78 this excess represented some 15 per cent of total egg production. However, returns from exports are significantly lower than returns from the domestic market. In fact, they represent less than 10 per cent of the total gross value of production. 
The current hen levy of $ 1 a hen per annum has been unchanged since the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia scheme came into operation in July 1965. Obviously, inflation since that time has eroded the value of the levy and has forced the State Egg Board to impose additional levies. It is thus necessary to update the figure to a more realistic level. I would like to review the current state of the poultry industry and the outlook for 1977-78 as forecast by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. 
-Yes. 1978-79. I thank the honourable member for his correction. In recent years the poultry industry has been undergoing a period of restructuring and consolidation. Small poultry farms have decreased in number very significantly and the trend has favoured those with large holdings and efficient production methods. For example, in 1977-78 the number of poultry farms declined by 360- almost one farm a day- bringing the figure to a quarter of those existing 10 years previously. However, whilst the number of farms has declined, the size of flocks has increased due to the need to utilise quotas most effectively. For example, in 1967-68, which is only 1 1 years ago, only 3 per cent of poultry farms had flocks greater than 5,000 birds. Ten years later this figure had risen to 18 per cent This situation has been brought about by a combination of economic trends and the introduction of a hen quota system in 1975, which restricts domestic production to a level comparable with domestic consumption. Figures available for the egg industry in the 1977-78 financial year show that commercial egg production increased by 11 million dozen to 192 million dozen as a result of increased hen yields brought about by better utilisation of hen quotas and the solving of problems associated with the vaccination for marek 's disease. 
Prices rose on both the domestic and export markets for eggs and egg products. On the domestic market the average annual retail price for eggs maintained the upward trend which was established in 1972-73. Australia's greatest customer for egg products on the export market is Japan, which takes almost the entire quantity of available egg pulp. A substantial increase in the revenue from exports in 1977-78, coupled with higher returns on the domestic market, produced an increase of 7 per cent in average net returns for egg producers over the 1 976-77 level. We on this side of the House do not cavil with that because we believe that a prosperous agricultural industry is vital to the backbone of the Australian economy. The egg industry therefore fared quite well last financial year and the forecast of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics for 1978-79 is also favourable. 
-I do not know about that; the honourable member will have to talk about that. One does not have to lay an egg to be a judge of an omelette. We do not have to know every obscure egg disease and poultry disease in order to be able to speak on this Bill. We are here to support the farmers whom honourable members from the National Country Party are supposed to support. We want the poultry farmers of Australia to know that the Labor Party is greatly in their corner. 
-I do not know about that. Rising domestic prices for eggs are likely to account for an increase of 8 per cent on average unit returns to producers in 1978-79, whilst a reduction of the proportion of eggs available on the lower priced export market is likely to increase returns from this source as the eggs available will be sold on better priced markets. However, whilst the situation at present favours producers, the industry does face problems. We would like to be cognisant of them. 
Perhaps the major problem facing the poultry industry is the continuing decline in domestic egg consumption. Demand for eggs is influenced most greatly by population size and, with a declining population growth rate, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics predicts that consumption of commercially produced eggs this year will be only marginally above that of last year. To counter this trend, a $250,000 'hard sell'- I stress that it is 'hard sell' and not 'hard shell'advertising campaign was announced in November last year to promote eggs and egg dishes in a similar way to the campaign undertaken by the dairy industry. It is to be hoped that the results for the poultry industry will be just as successful. Last night, when debating the Dairy Produce Sales Promotion Amendment Bill, I mentioned that the film  Last Tango in Paris  did wonders for the butter industry in Europe. I wonder whether we might introduce again on the commercial market the old film  The Egg and I.  That might do something similar for the poultry industry in Australia. But the future appears to augur somewhat better for poultry meat. The BAE expects poultry to consolidate its position as second to beef in the Australian meat diet because of higher beef prices. It predicts rather confidently that poultry consumption will rise by 9 per cent in 1979. This increase in consumption has been assisted by the growth of the fast food industry, a significant proportion of which is devoted to take-away chicken dishes. I am not going to give a free plug for Kentucky Fried Chicken, but obviously there being an outlet on almost every street corner has been a help to the industry. 
One very favourable indication of an upturn in the poultry industry and an example of an initiative which could be emulated by others in the industry was the announcement in December last year of the signing of a $6m contract by the Great Sincere Co. for the establishment of poultry farms in China. This project aims to emcompass the entire scope of poultry farming by supplying both buildings and breeding stock and will, I suggest, make a valuable contribution to the industry. Given development such as this and a favourable outlook for 1979, the poultry industry appears to be consolidating its position in the economy, and we are very pleased about that. 
The Poultry Industry Assistance Amendment Bill seeks to increase the level of funds available for poultry research by raising the current limit of a maximum of $200,000 by 50 per cent to $300,000. The money allocated for poultry research is provided from a levy imposed on hens over six months of age in commercial flocks exceeding 20 birds. I have referred already to the current state of the poultry industry and to some of the problems which face it. Research into the industry is of vital importance in overcoming these problems. Research is a very practical tool with which to assist the industry. It produces solutions to problems which beset an industry and ultimately it makes that industry more efficient and profitable. For those reasons, the Opposition is very pleased to support the Bills. 
A couple of weeks ago we debated at length the Life. Be in it.' campaign. The statistics that emerged in the debate were quite enlightening in one way but frightening in another. One statistic indicated that federal expenditure on sport this year is in the vicinity of $1.3m or, as was pointed out at the time, 9c per person per year. Government members have been jumping up and down and getting all hysterical about the $3. 8m that the Government is spending, in their terms, to destroy life. 
-Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that law suits against the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal,  Mr B.  Gyngell, were discontinued in the New South Wales Supreme Court because the plaintiffs could not afford to proceed and not for any reason associated with the merits of the case? What action does the Government propose to take to ensure the validity of the Tribunal hearings and that justice is not only done but also is seen to be done? 
I find it abhorrent and an indictment on society that 50,000-odd women annually in Australia have need to seek an abortion for whatever reason. For the public record, may I at the outset make my view on the moral aspects of abortion crystal clear. As a Catholic, I share the view expressed so eloquently by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I believe that life begins at the moment of conception. However, my moral beliefs also lead me to have ultimate respect for other people who have a different view on this matter than I do. Surely this tolerance is the basis not only of democracy, but also the whole human creation, kindness, compassion and understanding of another's views which must be exercised in the balance of one's moral standpoint. 
One of my interests in Sydney is to have a close association with a home for unmarried mothers run by Catholic nuns. If only every pregnant girl or woman desperate for help could share from society generally the love and assistance which these girls receive from these nuns, both in their pregnancy and at the birth of their child, this problem would not be in its present proportion. But such is not the case and society is to blame. The problem in most cases of abortion is in my view a matter of society's mores rather than evil intent on the woman's part. However, my overriding belief is that I have no right to impose my views on another or on the community as a whole. 
The Lusher motion is based on economic rather than ethical or human grounds. The cost figure is quoted at $3.4m which the Government provides in the way of medical funds towards abortion in a total health bill of something like $7,000m. That is but a drop in the ocean. On this motion's logic medical benefits should also be denied for pre-natal care and child birth as pregnancy is neither a pathological condition nor a medical necessity unless the services are essential to save the life of a mother or a child. If a reduction in health care costs is the aim of this motion and if medical necessity is the criterion to be used, the honourable member could have sought tighter controls over a whole range of questionable medical tests, operations and procedures. The economic logic on which the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  has based his case is plainly fallacious. I am thus led to believe that the reason for this motion is to cause a situation whereby women on the lower economic levels would find it relatively more difficult to obtain an abortion than their more affluent sisters. 
Any member who thinks that women desperate enough to seek an abortion would resile from that decision because of the non availability of medical benefit fund support or the pious statements of well meaning churchmen or politicians, in my opinion is grievously misjudging the grounds on which the great bulk of women need an abortion service. In my view, and on the historical record, the denial of medical benefits is unlikely to diminish significantly the number of abortions sought and performed. My respect for Australian womanhood at large leads me to believe that the great bulk of women who seek abortions would rather not. They seek abortions because a whole series of circumstances has evolved in their lives which causes them not to want but to need a termination of pregnancy. 
I know that there are militant feminists who destroy this theory somewhat by trumpeting aloud, as some individuals do, about their five or six abortions, but I do not think that the average woman seeking termination parallels that scenario. The range of possible patients is very wide, as has been spelt out by other speakers- incest cases, rape cases, cancer victims, desperate women all. A survey shows that Catholic women with three or four children make up a high percentage of women who seek abortion because of their moral beliefs abour contraception. Abortion is not a pretty procedure. I believe that most of the women who are forced to abort would also describe it as such. However, if the passing of this motion caused desperate women, few or many, to revert for whatever personal reason to seeking cheaper, more hazardous procedures, even self inflicted abortion, then I think that result would be more hideous than abortion itself. 
If this or any other motion could lead to a Utopian state such as I have described at the Catholic home I know of where girls who are pregnant can go around in peaceful surroundings with love and support and go on with their pregnancy, I would support it. But I do not think this is the case. I find it repugnant that 124 men in this House- no women- are passing judgment on women's rights. I would not seek to impose my moral judgment on these women. Women endure abortion, men cause the need. If we in this Parliament were genuinely concerned in this area we would be better advised to press for more generous family allowances and increased support for single mothers. I would like to point out to the people on the other side of the House that support this motion that the Labor Party when in Government introduced the supporting mothers' benefit. This Government has done nothing to improve it. We have been thinking of providing an allowance for pregnant girls before their child is born, to provide them with more enlightened sex education and better family planning. 
What the honourable member for Hume is doing is degrading a serious moral, legal, social and human question that is largely beyond the Federal jurisdiction, to a petty squabble over public finance. If members on the other side were genuinely concerned about ensuring that women went on with their pregnancies and had babies, why did not some of them come over and vote against the Budget that took away the lousy $32 maternity allowance? 
-It was too far to walk. You can sit there and pontificate but what would you do in a practical sense to encourage a woman to go on with her pregnancy? Nothing, but you will sit there like moral hypocrites that you are and support this motion. In conclusion I pay tribute to the members of my party who have had the courage to support this motion. While I disagree with their assessment of the motion's ramifications, my own moral view roughly parallels theirs. Their support is based on a sincere premise born out of an honest moral objection. I doubt if that is the case for all the Government members who will support this motion, including the prime mover. I oppose the motion. 
-No, it was despite that. The letter stated: 
Dear Pierre Trudeau, 
In a few days 180,000 baby harp seals will be clubbed to death in a bloody orgy of killing on the ice floes of Newfoundland Canada. Their mothers swim from Greenland to have their babies and they are forced to watch their babies being attacked and left to rot on the ice after being skinned alive. Last year the hunters only found half the seals they found the year before. So they waited for more seals to be born and killed these seals at birth. Could you imagine your mother watching you being smashed over your head when you were just born- this is barbaric Also this is the year of the child and I am just a child and so are these poor seals just animal children. This slaughter is disturbing the balance of nature and in a few years- 1983 to be exact that species of seal might be extinct. Only 0. 1 per cent of Canadian money comes from this killing. The fur which is produced is just a luxury and not needed for clothes. 72 per cent of the Canadian people are against this monstrosity and the law says the majority rules. So please save the seals like we save the whales. 
Yours faithfully, 
Andrew Brown (9) 
I hope that the House will believe that these letters are representative of modern education. The education that critics tend to believe is trendy and socialistic is much more sensitive than the education we received. I. commend the teachers who teach children to be aware of the beauties of the world. Perhaps with the world in the hands of children receiving this sort of education, by the time 25 years has passed it will be a much better world than the one we have created for them. 
Before I speak directly to the Bill I congratulate the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles)  for the remarks he has made. In fact, they follow on the remarks which you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  made in your contribution to this debate. I am pleased to support this Bill for many reasons, not the least of which is that I, like the honourable member for Wakefield and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  who is sitting in front of me, have a great love of native trees. The honourable member for Reid exhibited that in his period as a Minister within the Labor Government. It is a pity that our native forests are the declining commodity that they are. There is something uniquely Australian about a towering majestic gum. I agree with the honourable member for Wakefield that they should never be replaced by the all-devouring exotic pines that deprive the soil of everything to the extent that there is an absolute lack of anything growing underneath a pine tree. The native Australian eucalypt of course does not have that all-devouring property and the ecology as a whole thrives not in spite of it but because of it. It is a pity that our native forests are disappearing. 
I draw the attention of the House to the problem in Western Australia where the few remaining large stands of jarrah are under threat because of the hunger of bauxite miners for an even greater share of Australia's wealth. So the environmental aspects of this Bill are all important to the Labor Party. We have a marvellous propensity in Australia to plant exotics. We fill our forests with imported pines, and this disease has reached to home gardeners. It is difficult to find in a home garden these days a gum, a tea tree or a wattle. Everybody seems to want to plant a golden pine, a claret ash or a camellia- anything but an Australian native. This is a disease that I would like to see cured. Even around this Parliament House there is a great propensity to fill up gardens with imported deciduous trees, forgetting that if there is one thing that is uniquely Australian it is Canberra. I am pleased to see that in the revamping of the courtyards in Parliament House we are getting around to planting some Australian natives which we can appreciate. 
In the few moments I have to speak in the adjournment debate tonight I shall deal with modern education and the criticism of modern education which we hear almost constantly. People tend to describe it in what they think are deprecating terms such as 'trend' or 'socialistic'. I am sure that they do not understand what the word 'socialistic' means or obviously they would not use it in an insulting sense. I tend to disagree with those terms. I think back to my education when the three Rs were important. We learned our lessons by rote. We learned all the things which I now view as very peculiar about the wonderful efforts the British Empire was making in its imperialism. We learned what a wonderful bloke Clive of India was and how he managed to extract all the riches from India to make England richer and India poorer. I feel that education in those years lacked sensitivity and depth. 
Modern education as I understand it and as I see it with my children tends to be more sensitive by inculcating in children the wonders of the world in which they live and trying to establish in their minds a sense of responsibility about it and a love for people who have a differing sense of values, a different ethnic sense and a different culture. In those terms I think that education today is better and richer. I can remember that when I was a kid the only emphasis on the environment or the world around us that we got in school was perhaps on two days a year. The day the Gould Bird League was the subject of discussion was one of those days. I use my children as an example. They go to a school which happens to be in the electorate of the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock).  They get an education which is fuller and more sensitive. They learn something of the native birds, trees and the bush around them. The only time we learned about trees was on the one day a year we planted a tree in the school yard for Arbor Day. 
It is true. What brought the matter home to me most prominently was a couple of letters which I found at home. They were written by my children as part of a class discussion. I suppose they were representative of letters which other children in their classes had written to Pierre Trudeau as part of a school project complaining about the slaughter of the harp seals which has attracted a certain amount of interest in the last couple of weeks. I found those letters very poignant inasmuch as children have a greater sincerity and sensitivity in relation to these problems than perhaps their adult parents have. As I have only a couple of minutes left in which to speak I shall read those letters. The first is from a seven-year old. It states: 
Dear Pierre Trudeau, 
Why kill these baby seals. What use are they to you. Anyway you have enough clothes over there so why do you need fur- it's only a luxury and only 0.1 per cent of Newfoundland's money comes from this bashing, beating and killing. 
Why do you have to force the mother seal to watch. When a pregnant seal has to travel from Canada over to Newfoundland to have her baby and then see it killed. You murdurers they will be soon be extinct if you don't stop killing them. 
The next letter was from a nine-year old. 
-I wish to draw to the attention of the House a number of measures, contained in the Government's notorious 1978-79 Budget, which have brought hardship to one of the most deserving groups in our society, returned servicemen and women. Having made that point, I presume that the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  and the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  will not interrupt me. 
These men and women saw that their patriotic duty lay in serving their country in times of danger and gave generously of their energies and abilities so that this country could develop in freedom and prosperity. But what has been their reward? To see those benefits and privileges, which were deservedly given to them by a grateful nation, eroded and debased by a pennypinching Government. Since the last Budget was brought down, the catalogue of instances of injustice contained in it has accumulated. Let me now add to this list. 
We are all aware of the hardships which have been inflicted on pensioners by the Government's decision to index pensions yearly instead of half-yearly, and by its inflexible policy regarding fringe benefits. Those who are in receipt of war and service pensions are also affected by these policies, which have caused the income of pensioners to fall behind the cost of living. Moreover, whenever an increase in war pensions occurs, following consumer price index rises, some veterans lose part of their Service pension, and entitlement to fringe benefits, because of their increased pension income, thus being put in a worse position than they were in before. 
The time for processing Defence Service Home scheme loans has been increased from 1 1 to 14 months, thus imposing an additional cost on the borrower of anything up to $4,000 and adding greatly to the cost of houses under the scheme. In addition, the size of such loans remains at $15,000. As honourable members will be well aware, this figure is a mere fraction of the total cost of most homes today and most applicants for these loans are forced to seek additional finance at, as we know, enormous cost on second mortgage. One wonders why, if this is all the money that the Government sees fit to allocate, it bothers to continue with the scheme at all. It is not hard to understand the growing suspicion amongst returned servicemen that a deliberate attempt is being made to sabotage the Defence Service Homes Scheme. 
Yet another preserve of ex-servicemen to be attacked by the hatchet of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  last year, and one which involves more than just their physical well-being, was that of medical care. The imposition of stringent staff ceilings in repatriation hospitals has limited the services available to ex-servicemen. I say shame on the Government for that. Repatriation hospitals are a source of great pride and affection amongst ex-servicemen and women who, because of their unique origins, regard them as their own. These people feel that repatriation hospitals understand the special needs of war veterans and their families. They are now seeing this special relationship threatened. I refer particularly to conditions at the Repatriation General Hospital at Concord, Sydney. A comparison between it and a normal public hospital, with the same number of beds, has revealed that the Repatriation General Hospital is functioning with approximately two-thirds of the staff needed to maintain a parallel public hospital. 
The effect of staff limitations at Concord is evidenced by the number of complaints which have been received by the state branch of the Returned Services League regarding matters such as delayed admissions, the closure of wards and the discharging of patients before they can receive the full benefit of the occupational and physiotherapy services which are available at the hospital. This situation is no reflection upon the attitudes of the staff of the hospital, who are dedicated and highly trained. It is a reflection upon the Government's lack of concern for human welfare in its over-riding attempt to make cut-backs in expenditure. 
In all these areas the Government has inflicted unnecessary hardship upon those who most deserve a fair go, and it should be condemned for its actions. 
-I commend the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure to all honourable members because the ramifications of it are very important. As has been spelt out by previous speakers in this debate, this Parliament is totally emasculated when it comes to considering the Estimates and the Budget generally. I would like to point out two specific instances of this matter. I refer the Parliament to the estimates for the Parliament itself. For instance, the Department of Defence calls in every expert in that Department- the Army, the Royal Australian Navy, the Royal Australian Air Force, the munitions manufacturers and the range of people who could have an input into that area of budget expenditure. But when it comes to the parliamentary estimates we, the members of parliament, the people who are most concerned with the amount of money that is made available to the Parliament to run its committees and to perform its functions, are given no say whatsoever. 
Secondly, if we members of this Parliament were given more say in what the Budget provides, by being able to speak to the Estimates before the Budget is formulated and presented to us as a fait accompli we, as parliamentarians, might not suffer indignities such as those we suffered in the presentation of the last Budget, when we saw taxes being inflicted on paper boys, on the blind and on people working in sheltered workshops, with the resulting embarrassment of those decisions having to be reversed by the Government. If all the members of this Parliament had known that those measures were going to be contained in the Budget, I doubt that they would have been included in the first place. If for no reason other than that the dignity of this House should be maintained and that we, as members of this House, should not be impugned as we were by the decisions I have mentioned, I think it is very important that every member of parliament, whether an Opposition or Government member, should look at this report, take note of it and try to bring some influence to bear on the Executive to ensure that the Parliament does get a say in the formulation of the forward estimates. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hyde)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, as well as being the Federal member for Parramatta I am also an alderman on the local council. One of the better services provided by the Parramatta City Council- a similar situation applies in almost every other local government area- is a mealsonwheels setup which is of course organised through the old people's welfare establishments. In the last 12 months the Council has been continuing to exchange correspondence with the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  protesting about the fact that the subsidy which has traditionally been paid by the Commonwealth Government towards the salary of the welfare officers has been reduced from twothirds to one half, which seems to me to be a fairly penny-pinching sort of operation, anyhow. Besides, the Government's subsidy for meals is the glorious sum of 50c a meal. As our pleas for humanitarian consideration of this matter have apparently fallen upon deaf ears, I thought that tonight I might try to elicit some response from the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  on a purely economic basis. 
-That is true. She has knocked back everybody on that, which is very unfortunate. I remind the House that, quite apart from having a series of generous volunteers to sustain the Meals on Wheels service to provide one hot three-course meal a day to pensioners living in deprived circumstances and quite apart from the nutritive values of one decent threecourse meal a day, there is the added social significance of having somebody call on them. Of course, it has quite a beneficial effect on people to think that somebody does care for them. They look forward to having the volunteer call every day with their meal. The cost of that meal to the Council is somewhere in the vicinity of $2 a day, of which 50c comes from the Government. 
I bring to the attention of the House the fact that if this service were to cease- as it could well do if it were not for the great efforts of the volunteers who do not receive much support from the Government- the Government might then be looking at placing all of these old people in either a nursing home or a hospital where, instead of providing 50c a day, which is the subsidy the Council is getting at the moment, the Government would be looking at finding $150 a day to provide a bed to keep these old people alive. I would think that there would be a reasonable argument that could be made out to try to coerce the Minister for Health to do something about his sister department, the Department of Social Security, seeing whether some good sense could be brought to bear to ensure that subsidies- as low as they were before with two-thirds of the salary of welfare officers being found by the Government- were restored to a reasonable level and also with a view to seeing that the 50c a day pittance paid to Meals on Wheels was increased to a figure more in line with the actual cost. 
I think the analogy I make is quite sound. The alternative is to put these old people into hospitals at an enormous cost to the Government. Obviously from the old people's point of view it is much better for them to stay in their home surroundings, with the succour provided by the volunteers who run the Meals on Wheels service. I hope that if the Minister is listening on the internal audio system he will take this matter on board and will give it some serious consideration. In economic terms, the alternatives to providing a decent subsidy to Meals on Wheels are quite astounding. In social terms, they are quite hideous. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it a fact that the  Chairman  of the Austraiian Broadcasting Tribunal undertook at the Adelaide broadcasting hearings in October 1978 to release a report based upon the open hearings? Is the Minister aware that the failure of the Tribunal to release the report is preventing any body or individual wishing to exercise a legal right to challenge the findings of the Tribunal from doing so? Will the Minister request the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal to release the report immediately? 
-I refer the Prime Minister to his recent statements congratulating the Commonwealth Police on their handling of the attempted hijacking incident at Sydney Airport. Is the Prime Minister aware that the Commonwealth Police Officers Association has requested an audience with the Minister for Administrative Services eight times in the past two months? Is he aware that on each occasion the Minister has been unavailable? Is the Prime Minister also aware that a major concern of the Association is a proposal in draft legislation to set up the new Australian Police Force which, the Association claims, downgrades police officers serving in high security areas such as airports? Will the Prime Minister ensure that the Association's views and objections are given a hearing by the Minister for Administrative Services? 
I do not want to spend too much time in commenting on what the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Moore)  had to say. Strangely enough we on this side of the House respect the intelligence of the honourable member for Ryan. We are sometimes staggered to find that his intelligence languishes on the back bench over there while there are much less adequate people sitting on the front bench. Of course, we do disagree violently with him in political terms. However, I would like to bring my contribution to this discussion in line with the motion that we have moved about the personnel appointed by the Government to undertake this inquiry into the Australian financial system. I would also like to point out to the Government that the terms of reference just do not cater sufficiently for the reaction which the capital market, the financial system, has on the great mass of the Australian public. We deplore the absence of any sort of representation from the people who basically are affected by the system as it exists. 
The Opposition welcomes the establishment of a committee of inquiry into the Australian financial system. It is a move which obviously is long overdue. The last inquiry into the financial system was the Royal Commission into the Monetary and Banking Systems which was held in 1936-37. Since that time, obviously, great changes have occurred in the Australian financial system and many new problems have arisen which require detailed investigation in 1979 and through the 1980s. For example, since the time of the last inquiry, the trading banks have diminished in importance- I do not think that we on this side of the House deplore that- whilst new financial institutions such as permanent building societies and consumer and wholesale credit arrangements have vastly expanded the scope of their activities. Competition in some financial areas has been eliminated by the development of facilities such as Bankcard, to which the honourable member for Ryan referred. I will not enter into that discussion as I think the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  put that case very clearly last night. I agree with his summation of Bankcard and I disagree with the honourable member for Ryan on that point. The Australian Resources Development Bank, which has a virtual monopoly in its field, and the role of the Reserve Bank have been called into question. All these issues need investigation. They really should come within the terms of this inquiry. It is of vital importance to our economic development that a financial system is developed which permits the maximum mobilisation and deployment of Australian capital by Australians for the benefit of Australians. 
I would like to make a slight observation. Almost all the merchant banks which operate in Australia are overseas owned and controlled. Whilst recognising the necessity for an inquiry into the Australian financial system, the Opposition has great reservations regarding its composition and terms of reference. With regard to the composition of the inquiry panel, there is no doubt that the qualifications of those named are beyond question. The point we make is that whilst their qualifications might be impeccable there is a danger, as there is with all official committees, that the members are chosen with such regard for their credentials that they will put forward only the views of the establishment. Surely that is what this inquiry is all about- to see that the present establishment is thoroughly reviewed and in lots of ways overturned. 
Another associated danger with such a committee is that the membership is too closely involved with the capital market to provide a completely detached analysis of its imperfections. Surely the existence of those imperfections is beyond question. The committee members appointed by the Government to this inquiry represent such interests as the Reserve Bank, the trading banks, the insurance industry, the securities industry and the real estate industry. All of these interests deserve to be represented, but it is very unlikely that any of them will question the basic assumptions underlining the financial system and, therefore, the inquiry will remain in most cases fairly superficial. There is no member on the committee who will be able to assess the evidence put before the inquiry independently of his own sectarian interests. The committee's stance is, in fact, so apparent that most newspaper articles have already confidently predicted the recommendations which the committee will make some 1 8 months from now. It is perhaps worth remembering that the committee of inquiry of 1936 had a very different composition from that of 1979. It included a Supreme Court Justice, a chartered accountant, an economics professor, an official of the Victorian Treasury, a grazier and, of course, the Labor politician the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  mentioned, the revered Ben Chifley. It was clearly more broadly based and more, independent than that which has beer appointed in 1979. 
Whilst we do not advocate that the Government should firmly adhere to the pattern of the composition of that inquiry, we feel that the membership of the present inquiry should be broadened so that it can maintain a more independent stance. Another major criticism which the Opposition has regarding this committee of inquiry relates to the insufficient attention which is given in the terms of reference to the social welfare implications of the financial system. In fact, no specific reference has been made to this aspect of the financial system. Perhaps the only section of the terms of reference relating to social welfare can be found in paragraph (d) which recommends that the committee investigate: 
Such other matters as the inquiry believes relevant to the generality of its inquiries. 
This is not specific enough. The terms of reference should clearly state that the committee of inquiry must give special attention to the effect of any changes in the Australian financial system on disadvantaged community groups and the functioning of social welfare policies. The Opposition states and reiterates that that is the failing of this inquiry. 
The terms of reference are all formulated with regard to entrenched establishments. Mention has been made of financial institutions, the securities industry and the money market, but no mention has been made of the effect of any changes to the financial system on the individual and the small investor. Surely the great mass of the Australian population falls in those areas. The small investor appears to be very much the pawn of governments and financial institutions. Little notice is taken of his needs and wishes. When we talk about the small investor, on this side of the House we do not talk about people buying shares in public companies. We talk about people who are buying their own homes. 
They are investing in financial institutions by undertaking mortgages. Decisions affecting the wellbeing of small investors are imposed from above by an omnipotent body, the financial system, which appears to impose decisions independently of governments and the people. The one area in which the financial system has a major impact upon individual investors is the housing market. The desire to own one's home has been described as 'the great Australian dream', and certainly no one would deny that every person should have the opportunity to purchase his own home. It would seem that this basic right is becoming increasingly difficult to achieve because of problems inherent in the financial system as it exists at present. 
I would like to refer now to specific problems in the financial system as it relates to housing. I am sure most people would agree that these should be overcome. One of the most obvious problems facing the potential home buyer is the effect of rising land prices which is making it increasingly difficult for low and middle income earners to purchase their own homes. Between 1970 and 1978 in New South Wales, for example, the cost of a house and land has increased something like 131.1 per cent while the cost price index in that period has risen only by 120.3 per cent. There is a fair differential. To a large extent this situation has been brought about by widespread land speculation by big developers who buy land cheaply, develop it and then sell it at an enormous profit. 
Another adverse effect of the financial system on the home finance market relates to the lack of co-ordination which exists between State and Federal financial policies which in the long term affect home buyers. A clear example of this was seen in 1976 when an Australian savings bond issue paying a highly competitive 10.5 per cent per annum forced building societies in New South Wales to raise their interest rates- hardly a proposal that was in line with the Government's allegedly trying to get inflation down. Currently a lack of stability in the home finance market affects the availability of loans. The Eyers Committee of Inquiry into Housing Costs recommended the establishment of a Commonwealth secondary mortgage agency which would buy mortgages in bulk from home loan institutions thus smoothing out fund flows around Australia and allowing greater regulation of the State housing industries. Such a scheme would produce greater stability in the home finance market. Yet it has not even been mentioned in the terms of reference for the inquiry. 
Another problem besetting the financial system which has been excluded from the terms of reference of this inquiry- it affects large numbers of potential home buyers- is the lack of security for building society funds. I noticed that the honourable member for Moore, who has left the chamber, alluded to this point. It is ludicrous that a mere rumour can start a run on building societies. A prominent example of this occurred in New South Wales in the last few months when some ratbag on the radio started a rather irresponsible and spurious run on building societies. This has led to only two of the building societies in New South Wales now providing loans. The run-down on investments because of the outbursts of this lunatic has been incredible. I note that he has been censured to some extent by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. But the effect on the home loan market has been marked. Until the Government is prepared to do something about guaranteeing investors' funds in building societies this situation probably will continue. It is obvious that nobody standing up in Martin Place yelling that the Commonwealth Bank is in jeopardy would cause a run on investors' funds. Why should somebody be able to do so with building societies? I suggest to the House that building societies in New South Wales particularly are very sound; they are as sound as the banks. But until they have some government support for investors' funds the possibility of this situation re-occurring will always be present. 
The Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  recently indicated that the establishment of a national insurance scheme for building society funds will be made a matter of priority. I note that with some pleasure. However, it is unfortunate that such initiatives should be taken without falling into the specific terms of reference of the inquiry. I think that that should be an important area for this inquiry. That such an insurance scheme is long overdue is more than obvious. In Australia in the financial year 1 977-78 building societies lent almost $2 billion for housingalmost $2,000m. This figure was second only to that lent by savings banks and represented 25 per cent of the total money lent for housing. Institutions dealing with such vast sums of money surely need an insurance scheme to reassure their contributors. 
At this point I make reference to the Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation, a body which was established in 1967 to insure depositors' funds in member institutions up to a limit of $20,000. This was started by the Canadian Government. It is organised by the Government. 
It is a source of great protection to building societies in that country. Should member institutions be found to be unsound following investigations their insurance is cancelled. This is the sort of guarantee which the investors of Australia need for their savings. 
I have just spoken of the importance of establishing the confidence of small investors in permanent building societies. Another area where credibility is lacking to investors is in the composition of the boards of some building societies and superannuation funds. Many of these institutions are undemocratic in their management hierarchy and shareholders are not well represented at all. One needs to think back only to last year's extraordinary lobbying procedures for the election of directors to the board of the New South Wales Permanent Building Society to realise that shareholders have little say with regard to the composition of the board. The undemocratic nature of the boards of many leading organisations does not always work in the best interests of potential home buyers. The practice of such organisations entering into the field of land speculation, for example, is highly questionable given that the majority of their shareholders themselves wish to purchase homes. 
Other matters affect the home finance market. The need to establish a priority for housing by appointing a body such as the Australian Housing Corporation in order to secure the cash flows necessary to maintain production and sale of housing is one. The problem of financing the gap between the deposit and the loan required is another. All these problems need investigation. Under the current terms of reference of the committee of inquiry into the financial system none of them is specifically mentioned. 
That is the basis of the Australian Labor Party's complaint about this inquiry. We realise that the inquiry is necessary. We applaud its implementation. But we sincerely ask the Government to think about broadening the range of members who are on the inquiry and also broadening the reference to enable strong inquiries to be made as to how the financial market, the capital market, as it exists in Australia at the moment affects the great mass of the Australian people. As the honourable member for Adelaide suggested, almost 50 per cent of the Australian population supports the Labor Party in and out of government. Surely this great mass of Australians, the people who are contributing the bulk of the money which goes into financial operations in Australia, should be given a say in the inquiry. At this stage they are not. If we talk about somebody from the trade unions who is qualified in this area we could consider Bob Hawke who is a member of the board of the Reserve Bank. Why not have Bob Hawke on this inquiry representing the great mass of the Australian people? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
What was the subsidy given to the City of Parramatta Council by the Department of Social Security for the provision of the Meals-on- Wheels service in each of the years 1972 to 1978. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many (a) temporary and (b) permanent staff are currently located at the Australian Taxation Office at 126 Church Street, Parramatta, NSW. 
asked the Minister for 
Transport, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
How many (a) temporary and (b) permanent staff of his Department are currently located at the Qantas Office, 20 Macquarie Street, Parramatta, NSW. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 May 1 979: 
How many (a) temporary and (b) permanent staff are currently located at the Australian Electoral Office at 28 George Street, Parramatta, NSW. 
-I have almost finished. But I would like to repeat that I think this is a perfect example of the case that I am making. These people have enormous power at their control. Unless they are prepared to handle it responsibly, I think the Minister should make some effort to see that the powers of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal are increased so that these people can be brought to public notice and made to accept responsibility for the rumours that they are prepared to start. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
How many (a) temporary and (b) permanent staff are currently located at the Department of Social Security offices at: 
68 Macquarie Street, Parramatta, NSW. 
ii) Level 6, Westfield Centre, and 
3rd Floor, Station Centre, Cnr Argyll and Wentworth Streets, Parramatta. 
Last week in a debate in this House concerning an inquiry into the nation's financial system. I made reference to the important part played by the permanent building society industry in the overall complement of the Australian capital market. I pointed out that in the previous 12 months almost $20,000m had been made available to home seekers in Australia by these societies. I also made reference to the very deleterious effect upon investments in this area caused by the unjustified spreading of rumours about the stability and financial security of one of the major New South Wales permanent building societies. These rumours began on a Sydney radio station when a disc jockey made a bald statement that one very well known building society was about to go bust. This rumour was apparently taken up by other radio stations, resulting in a situation later in the day of investors in the building society, subsequently identified as the St George Permanent Building Society Ltd, storming the headquarters of the society in Hurstville, demanding the withdrawal of their investments. I ask honourable members to cast their minds back to this situation. In Sydney we had the ignominious situation of the Premier of New South Wales having to travel to Hurstville by motor car, accompanied by a police escort with sirens screaming to stop what might well have been a real civil insurrection. 
What an ignominious situation it is when an unjustified, unqualified rumour can lead to such events. The permanent building societies, particularly those in New South Wales, are monitored closely by the Government. The Minister in charge,  Mr Sid  Einfeld, is most responsible in his attitude towards building societies and in protecting the investors in those societies. We had a situation of people storming the headquarters of this society in Hurstville demanding their money back. Fortunately  Mr Wran,  because of his great stature in the community, was able to a great extent to quell those rumours and order was restored. Proof of the point I am making was provided this week with the release of the statistician's figures on permanent building societies for the last quarter. The figures show quite clearly that these rumours had a tremendous effect on investments in permanent building societies. The run-down in March- the month when the rumour started- was such that the shortfall between investments and payments was $97. 3m. That is an enormous amount of money. With home loans averaging somewhere in the area of $25,000 to $30,000, that means that over 3,000 home loans were subsequently denied. 
The permanent building societies have been described as being somewhat like liners under full steam on the ocean: They build up a tremendous momentum. The real effect of this shortfall in investment will be felt in the months of April and May. When the figures come out for those months, they are going to be shattering in terms of the home loans which have been lost because of an irresponsible rumour. One Sydney radio personality has taken my mention of this rumour as a personal insult to himself. Since I made that statement, this person has launched a defamatory and vituperative attack on me for my alleged colourful language which he has taken, perhaps in a guilty way, as a description of himself. That is his choice. My grievance concerns the irresponsible use of the public air waves by disc jockeys or anyone else. 
-I spoke to this gentleman on the radio and I undertook to withdraw what he termed to be insulting remarks which he decided described him. But when I spoke to him I did not know that, while I was absent down coal mines or in aeroplanes, two or three hours previously in the morning he was giving me the best bucketing that has ever been known, in a very unjustified fashion. People who have access to the public air waves should be responsible because of the unfettered power which they have. Referring to talk back shows, these people have at their command a delay button which gives them a 7-second delay on a caller, which gives them the opportunity to talk over the caller, to ridicule callers after the interview is finished, and to add further insult to injury. I am glad that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr 
Staley) is sitting at the table because I am concerned that we cannot have more control over things that people can say on radio. 
We have a very important privilege in this House- parliamentary privilege. The Parliament is our forum. If ever the situation occurs that we cannot stand up in the House and say freely and responsibly what we think needs to be said, we might as well fold up our tents and go home. Radio announcers have the air waves at their disposal for hours of each day to do what they want to do. This Parliament is our area. We are elected to this place by people within our electorates, and this is our domain. 
I second the amendment,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I do so because we on this side of the House want to see the Pipeline Authority, one of the great visions of Rex Connor in his time as Minister for Minerals and Energy, retain the powers originally given to it. We can imagine the situation if the board of a similar body, say Qantas Airways Ltd or Trans-Australia Airlines, were expected to go cap in hand to a government to obtain consent through a special Act of Parliament every time it needed to make new purchases of aircraft. That would be a ludicrous situation. Yet that is the sort of absurdity which we have been asked to condone. That is what is embodied in the Pipeline Authority Amendment Bill which is before the House. The late Rex Connor, in a moment of sweet familiarity with the muses, once quoted a few lines from  Banjo Paterson  in relation to his vision of the natural gas pipeline which would service this great continent- the vision which the Government is now trying to destroy. The last line of that piece will suffice to illustrate the discrepancy- more correctly, the yawning chasm- between honourable members on the Government side of the House and we of the Opposition on this side of the House. That line states: 
Give me men . . . with creation in their brains. 
The poetry might be a bit awry, but the idea is there. Where are the men of vision these days? Where are the people on the other side of the House with creation in their brains? We do not see a trace of it in honourable members opposite. Nothing positive ever comes out of this Government. Everything that comes out is negative. It has been a long downhill run since this Government grabbed power. Everything it touches turns sour. The economy is just one obvious example. Countless other examples are on the record and etched into the hearts and minds of the Australian people. The recent drastic swings away from the parties of honourable members opposite in every election they contested gives testimony to that. The Government wants to extend its 'un-Midas' touch to the highly efficient and successful Pipeline Authority. We say to the Government: 'Hands off! Leave a good thing alone. Remember the old Mortein advertisement: "When you're on a good thing, stick to it".' When we left power we left this Government with one of the best authorities in Australia in the Pipeline Authority- an authority which was to give Australia a real chance to do something big. All the Government is trying to do is to emasculate it. 
We on this side of the House can see no good reason for the other curtailing legislation prepared by the Government either. The Government is seeking to interfere in another important area. I refer to the fact that this Bill seeks to strip the Pipeline Authority of the power to secure, control and retain reserves of petroleum. We object to the clause which seeks to do that. The Authority's powers in that area should be left intact. No purpose is served by interfering. In recent months we have seen the way in which other Labor policies in the area of resources have been not just adopted; almost embraced by the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  I might add that I commend the right honourable gentleman for seeing the obvious virtue in our minerals policy. The pipeline was an incredibly valuable initiative on the part of the Labor Government. Already the country has benefited enormously. Honourable members should ask the householders who switched over to natural gas the Christmas before last whether they think that Connor was doing the right thing. 
The Pipeline Authority still has a long way to go to fulfil its task and to make vital provisions for the future. It cannot afford to be so ridiculously hamstrung at this stage. To do so would be scandalous and totally unsupportable. What the Government is doing in this direction merely points to the assertion we are making that the Government is so sure of the return of a Labor government next time round that it is adopting a dog-in-the-manger attitude. It is playing games with the power vested in it by the electorate. But should we be surprised about that? It is not novel for the leaders on the other side of the House to do that, but certainly their doing so is to be deplored. We deplore it. We oppose the Bill for that reason. I support fully the amendment moved by my colleague, the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West). 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr West's amendment)  stand pan of the question. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security: Is it a fact that the Federal Government's subsidy towards the provision of the Meals on Wheels service now stands at 30c a meal? Is it also a fact that the provision of this one hot meal a day, combined with the visit of a volunteer to deliver the meal, has a highly beneficial effect upon the lives of the recipients? Is it also a fact that if this service were to be discontinued most of these old people would graduate to a public hospital or a nursing home at enormous economic cost to the Government and at great humanitarian shame to the community? Will the Minister therefore ensure that the 30c subsidy that the Commonwealth now pays towards the Meals on Wheels service is brought to a reasonable and humanitarian percentage of the estimated cost of $2 for each meal? 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
How many (a) temporary and (b) permanent staff are currently located at the Bureau of Customs Office at 30 Darcy Street, Parramatta, NSW? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
How many (a) temporary and (b) permanent staff are currently located at the office of the Family Court of Australia at 34 Charles Street, Parramatta, N.S.W.? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
Why have civilian tenders been considered for the manning and support of Nomad Searchmaster Aircraft for coastal surveillance, instead of the RAAF or other Government agencies. 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether he said in Melbourne on 27 November 1975: 
In the next Budget we will make the first major move towards adoption of the stock valuation provisions of the Mathews report. We will introduce the report in full over three years. 
Was that promise honoured? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
When does the Government intend to implement its 1977 election promise regarding its intention to increase the benefits for domiciliary nursing care to $4 a day and to reduce the age limits for the receipt of such benefits. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that his Department insists on the use of asbestos in certain applications in laboratories in the Australian Capital Territory supposedly for its fire-retardant qualities. 
If so, has consideration been given to the use of alternative fire-retardant materials, given the serious health risks associated with the use of asbestos. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
How many (a) temporary and (b) permanent staff are currently located at the office of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, 23 George Street, Parramatta, N.S. W. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
How many ( a ) temporary and ( b ) permanent staff are currently located at the office of the Commonwealth Employment Service, 30 Darcy Street, Parramatta, New South Wales. 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether on 2 7 November 1 975 he stated: 
We will maintain Medibank, and ensure that the standard of health care does not decline. 
Has the Government abided by this commitment? 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether he recalls stating in Melbourne on 2 1 November 1977: 
We have given Australia reliable and responsible economic government. 
Should this claim necessarily prescribe three different budgets in 12 months? 
The Opposition does not deplore the fact that there is an enormous wheat crop. We laud the fact that prosperity has returned to the country areas. I would not want any remarks that I make here on the Wheat Industry Stabilization Amendment Bill be to be interpreted as my carping against the success in the wheat industry. Of course, we support that industry. I support it particularly because the first wheat crop in Australia was planted in the Parramatta electorate by James Ruse. We in the Opposition are rather proud of our achievements in the wheat industry in the period when we were in government between 1972 and 1975. I remind the House that one of the first things that the Labor Government did in 1973 was to increase for the first time in 15 years- it is strange that the members of the National Country Party have fled the chamber; I thought that they might be interested in these matters- the first payment to wheat farmers. It might be remembered also that in the Labor Government's years in office the five year wheat stabilisation plan was started and consolidated. 
It might also be remembered as a matter of historical fact that the then Minister for Primary Industry,  Senator Wriedt,  insisted upon the Australian Wheat Board instituting a market with Egypt. That has been of enormous assistance to the wheat industry in the ensuing period. Of course, let it not be forgotten that Gough Whitlam 's sorties into China, with a subsequent real recognition of China as a trading partner, have also given us greater access to the Chinese wheat market. In 1972 we also brought forward the payment on which wheat farmers had been waiting for the 1969-70 crop. Therefore, our achievements with regard to the wheat industry are pretty good and we are proud of them. 
Whilst we are discussing the wheat industry today, we are really discussing the saga of the hot potato. This Bill is a classic case of buck passing. The Encyclopedic World Dictionary defines to pass the buck' as a colloquialism meaning, 'to shift the responsibility and/or blame to another person'. Make no mistake that this is what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  have done in this case. They have made the Australian Wheat Board and the States the scapegoats for their bungling inefficiency. They have leant on the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to do the dirty work involved. I do not suppose that the Minister would be insulted if I said that, because he is a farmer he is fairly used to doing the dirty work and so that is not out of character. This Bill is a product of the Government's decision to lean on the Wheat Board to issue commercial bills in order to rein in the money supply. Surely that should not be the job of the Wheat Board. The job of the Wheat Board is to pay wheat farmers and to trade in wheat. It is really not the job of the Wheat Board to implement government economic measures. 
This year's wheat harvest was underestimated in early November by approximately six million tonnes. Consequently, $400m more than was estimated was needed to fund the wheat growers' first advance. In November last year the Bureau of Agricultural Economics pointed out that in fact the wheat crop was likely to be 18 million tonnes this year. So the Government really had three or four months to prepare for that impasse. In fact, it did nothing about it. Due to the Government's prevailing interest rate mess it could not afford to let the Board have the extra finance from the Reserve Bank of Australia which it needed to cope with the bumper wheat crop. The economy of this country is in such a turmoil that the Government cannot handle a rural boom. Surely that is not a very reassuring exigency for those sectors that support it and particularly for those sectors that support the National Country Party. The Prime Minister is responsible for losing control of the economy, not the Australian Wheat Board. Therefore, why should the Australian Wheat Board be charged with the job of pulling the economy into line. 
This season the wheat harvest has been called the harvest of a lifetime. I think that is a fairly good description. The harvest has totalled almost 18 million tonnes which is 88 per cent higher than last year. It is expected to contribute at least $2, 500m to the economy. The crop is so good in fact that it exceeds the previous record crop of a decade ago by 2.7 million tonnes. In New South Wales alone the crop, which was forecast to reach approximately three million tonnes has doubled this figure, with yields in some areas being more than seven tonnes a hectare. It is greatly to the credit of the farmers that they have developed this kind of expertise and that they can produce these sorts of results. The crop has greatly aided the rural recovery. In a very short period the wheat boom, coupled with higher prices for other farm commodities and the recent opening up of export markets for beef, has meant that average farm incomes have leapt by 80 per cent on last year's figures. I would like to cite a couple of other figures that I think are fairly significant when people constantly talk about the devastating effect that the Labor Government had on the rural economy. 
Let us have a look at some figures. In 1 973-74 the net farm income in Australia was $5, 400m. That was in a year of Labor Government. In 1978-79, which is a later boom year, net farm income was $4,000m. That is a decent drop from the high point that was reached under a Labor Administration. The Australian Wheat Board expects to receive some 18 million tonnes of wheat this year, of which 14.5 million tonnes will be available for export. Export wheat has now reached $136.5 a ton on export markets. That is an enormous increase on the prices we were getting before. I would like to point out a few other factors regarding the rural economy. For any real benefit to flow from the industry, prices will have to be maintained at current levels for some months. While at this point it is too early to say whether this will occur, the industry can be moderately optimistic that this in fact will be the case. Despite the record international wheat crop of 440 million tonnes last season, present indications are that winter wheat crops in the northern hemisphere have been subject to winter kill damage while spring wheat plantings have been delayed in some areas by the weather and in some other cases, by overly dry conditions. By comparison, Australia seems to be faced with the prospect of another boom crop as a result of widespread rains in the last two months, although the extent of the harvest will depend very much upon the rainfall pattern of the next two months. 
In fact, a report in the  Sydney Morning Herald  this week indicated that in New South Wales this year 3.4 million hectares of wheat will be planted. That is a 10 per cent gain on last year's record crop. The United States Department of Agriculture and the International Wheat Council have forecast a low world wheat crop in 1 979-80, with a possible drop of between 5 per cent and 7 per cent. At the moment much Australian wheat is being sold according to contracts signed months ago and, therefore, at lower than current rates. However, the vast amounts stored will mean that Australia will be able to take full advantage of any future price rises which may occur. But, these enormous crops have brought with them a number of problems, particularly the inability of receival points to handle the amount of grain harvested. Silos and railway sidings are choked and many growers have been forced to store their grain in paddocks, sometimes as much as 2,000 tonnes of it, thereby risking damage from rain. I believe that the field mice in the country areas are rather fat this year, so I suppose that from a humanitarian point of view, that is not altogether a loss. 
There has also been the problem of finance. In February, the Prime Minister ordered the Reserve Bank to stop advancing loans to the Australian Wheat Board and told the Board that it would have to look to commercial sources for finance. Thus for a period of three weeks the Board was unable to make payments to growers. At the beginning of my speech I said that this Bill was brought about as a result of the buck passing of the Prime Minister and his Treasurer. I would like an opportunity to explain that situation. It goes back to the irresponsible electioneering and grandstanding of the Prime Minister when he unequivocally proclaimed that his Government would bring down interest rates by 2 per cent within a year. He stated: 
It is a target that can and will be achieved. 
Obviously it will not be fulfilled. As such, it rates along with the other so numerous broken promises of this deceitful and inept administration.  Mr Russell  Schneider, whom I would like to quote, is not usually a critic of the Government. In an article appearing in the  Australian  on 22 January he devoted a column which I believe was a very thoughtful and commendable effort to bring to the public's attention the litany of lies and broken promises which surround the Fraser Government. 
-At last we flushed him out. The real author of last Thursday's perfidious statement came into the House, not to defend the statement but to do what he normally does, to sermonise and preach to the Australian people. This statement is an indictment of the Australian Government. It is a government of shame and perfidy; a government destined to be judged by historians as a government of gross dishonesty and total deceit, led by a man unfit to follow in the footsteps of most of his illustrious predecessors. He is certainly unfit to follow in the footsteps of recent Labor Prime Ministers such as Curtin, Chifley and Whitlam. Whatever their critics may say about them they are recognised universally as men of impeccable honesty. That is something we cannot say about the present incumbent. 
The Fraser Government seized power in 1975 in circumstances which can be charitably described only as being very sinister. It has been in power now for almost four years. All it has managed to do is to achieve a reputation for being grossly dishonest. Thursday's statement is living proof of this dishonesty. How long is it since the newspapers have harangued a government as strongly as they harangued this Government over last Thursday night's performance? How long is it since a newspaper of the Fairfax stable produced headlines such as this: 'Lies, Lies, Lies! Tax levy stays, health aid goes'. That is a fair indictment of the sort of government which is presently occupying the Treasury benches. The election promises of 1975 are promises that we should remember. There should be something sacrosanct about election promises. Every government in the course of its stay in power will make statements which it sometimes has to repudiate but I am sure that the Australian people think that election promises require reverence. Implicit in them is some degree of mandate for the Government's program for the next three years. The Australian public normally requires that those promises be honoured. I refer to some of those promises in detail. The first concerns employment. The Government stated: 
Only under a Liberal-National Country Party Government will there be jobs for all who want to work. 
Unemployment will fall from February and keep falling. 
-What a joke. The people of Australia have deeply etched in their hearts and minds the record of this Government when it comes to employment or rather unemployment. One quarter of a million people have fallen into the unemployment category since this Government seized power. How can the Government justify that stated promise? With regard to inflation the Government said: 
Inflation at an annual rate of S per cent is within our reach by mid- 1979. It will go on falling under the policies of this Government. 
There is another joke. Inflation is now 8 per cent and heading towards 10 per cent. With regard to health insurance the Government said: 
We will maintain Medibank, and ensure that the standard of health care does not decline. 
There is a sick joke, if I may use the pun. The Government totally decimated and ultimately buried Medibank. With regard to wage indexation the coalition Government said that: 
It will support wage indexation . . . Our reforms will maintain the purchasing power of wages and ease the pressure for excessive wage demands. 
That statement was made on 27 November 1975. The following January the Fraser Government opposed the full flow-on of the consumer price index rise for the previous six months, seeking to limit wage increases to half indexation. Now we know what it will do with wage indexation That was fully spelt out last Thursday night. With regard to deficits the Government said: 
We have brought government spending under control .. . We have halved Labor's $4,500m deficit. 
The total deficits of the Whitlam Government in its three years of operation have been exceeded by this Government quite easily in two years. Where is the veracity in this statement? In relation to interest rates the Government said: 
Interest rates have begun to fall- and they will keep on falling. 
The only things falling in Australia are living standards and the expectations of the Australian people. Fancy the Government having the gall to make the promises it made to the Australian pensioners. It said: 
We are committed to take politics out of pension increases by giving automatic increases in line with price rises twice a year. 
I should not be surprised that there are very few government supporters in the chamber. They were coerced into the House to hear the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  speak. They are not here now. They hang their heads in shame. The more responsible, compassionate and sensitive of them are most embarrassed, as was indicated by the back bench revolt with regard to the promise to index pensions. Of course the Government has indexed pensions. It has indexed them right out of operation. In relation to the means test the Government said: 
We stand by our commitment to abolish the means test on pensions. 
In last year's Budget the Government announced that Australia's pensioners over 70 years of age would be subject to an income test in order to qualify for pension increases. No doubt members opposite as well as those on this side of the House have had their offices besieged by pensioners over 70 years of age since this perfidious move was taken. Under the Labor Government the means test for people over 70 years of age was removed. The present Government said that it would bring it down to apply to those aged 65 but what it has done has been to restore it to apply to people over 70 years of age. So all those people who have battled through life to maintain some sort of dignity and who have any sort of income at all from superannuation, investment or whatever now find themselves deprived of pensioner medical benefit entitlements, postal benefits, transport benefits and local government rate benefits. That is the record of this Government in regard to pensions and the pensioners of Australia know it. It is etched so deeply into the hearts and minds of pensioners and they will not forget it. The Combined Pensioners Association of New South Wales has certainly made its views clear. When honourable members opposite go to an election, as they will do shortly in the division of Grayndler, they will find the pensioners of that area letting them know quite clearly what they think of the Government's record. 
Turning to legal aid- it is interesting to see the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  sitting at the table because he is a legal man- the statement reads: 
We shall ensure that no person is denied legal aid because of a lack of means. 
Despite small changes in eligibility requirements last October, it is still possible for pensioners and others living below the poverty Une not to meet the stringent requirements for legal aid. 
In other words, the bulk of the Australian people who need help with legal aid are being denied that help. I have before me a couple of the Prime Minister's more magnificent statements. At the time of the impasse in the Senate in 1 975 he said: 
At this stage, it's our intention to allow the Budget to pass through the Senate. 
That was on 21 August 1975. Thirty-six days later the Liberal and National Country parties used their majority in the Senate to block that Budget. Here is another nice one: 
I think Bill Snedden is the leader. I support him completely. 
We all know what happened to Bill Snedden when he turned his back. He still has the scars. He has three shoulder blades. 
He has a knighthood! I do not know whether that is any great recommendation. I recall to mind the election of 1977 and the way in which the Government appealed to the basest of all human failingsgreed. It appealed to the greed of the Australian people and, unfortunately, a certain percentage of them- too high in fact- fell for this appeal. We can all remember the advertisements in the newspapers and on television depicting a hand clutching a handful of dollars. It was an appeal to base greed. I do not suppose that is unusual when the favourite author of the Prime Minister is Ayn Rand, who symbolises the cult of selfishness. The Government appealed to the selfishness of Australians and people fell for it. We all remember the telephone numbers that the Government told the people they could ring to find out what their tax cuts were. It was a matter of making a call and saying: 'I am a married man with four children. How much extra will I get in my pocket? Oh, X dollars. How lovely! It is a wonderful government. I will vote for it'. It did not take long for the people to find out the hollowness of that promise. 
The Labor Party's alternative policy in that election was an alternative that asked the people to forgo their tax cuts in order to provide employment opportunities for others in the community who were not as well off. Unfortunately, the Australian people were seduced by the promises that were made by the Government and failed to respond to the Labor Party's appeals. But when the next election comes along I am sure that that will not be the case. Unfortunately, these glib promises, these lies of convenience, these promises to confuse and seduce the Australian public have worked. But the sad thing was that the Prime Minister knew when he made them that they were incapable of implementation. He is a mendacious man who is cynically pursuing a dishonest course. It is the old Goebbels propaganda policy of 'tell a lie often enough and the people will believe it'. It is the big lie. The Fraser Government, in opposition, brainwashed the Australian people into believing that inflation and unemployment, which were too high in the Labor Party's years in office, were not in fact a world-wide phenomenon but were peculiar to Australia. The Fraser Opposition of that time kept making the point that they were only an Australian disease and that they did not affect the rest of the world. It is quite significant to note that in the last few days, in an attempt to explain away the increases in inflation and unemployment at the moment, we have been told that they affect the world. Of course they affect Australia because it is a trading partner with other world powers in world affairs. I am pleased that the Government has come clean about that. I have spoken about the Prime Minister's favourite author. One of my favourite authors is Mark Twain. I would like to quote what he said about the national lie. I think it is very appropriate. He said: 
The silent colossal national lie that is the support and confederate of all the tyrannies, shams, inequalities and unfairness that afflict the people. That is the one to throw bricks and sermons at. 
We throw bricks at this Government because we think it is a dishonest one. Meanwhile the Prime Minister sermonises. Our tourist Prime Minister calls for austerity from the Australian people while we, the taxpayers, are supplying him with incredible luxury. He promised twice-yearly indexation for age pensions. The cost of that would have been $30m. The Government abolished twice-yearly indexation. It is interesting to see what is being done with the $30m. The Government has provided the Prime Minister with two flying hotels- two luxury aircraft. If there were any honesty or fairness about the situation the Government would name those two aeroplanes 'Pensioner I' and 'Pensioner II' because they have been supplied out of the pockets of the Australian pensioners. 
-It is not a lie at all, it is the absolute truth. Consider the trappings of splendour that are going into those aircraft. Chefs are being specially trained to provide the Prime Minister with the luxury meals to which he is accustomed. The pensioners whom he has deprived of any sort of decency could waste away in their lonely garrets for all he cares. How can the Government hope to call on the Australian people for austerity when it behaves in that way? It is all very well for the Prime Minister to sermonise about austerity. As he wants to sermonise, let me quote a little from the Bible. I refer to Paul, chapter 3, verse 6 and verse 7, which reads: 
If the trumpet gives an uncertain sound who shall prepare for the battle? 
Of course who would prepare for the battle with a trumpet call that comes from this Prime Minister? It would be shaky and tremulous, not full of vibrato. It would engender in the Australian people anything except confidence. We now have the sorry situation in which the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has come clean at last and admits that unemployment will rise and inflation will rise. I would like to know what has been happening between November 1977 and May 1979 to bring about this position. Is any explanation forthcoming as to why the Government's policies have not worked? Honourable members opposite knew quite well that when the election was on in 1 977 the future for Australia was that inflation would continue to grow and unemployment would continue to expand. That is exactly why the Government got a compromising GovernorGeneral to grant it an early election. As  Senator James  McClelland once said in the Senate: 'We can at least leave him to the barmen of Paris'. That Governor-General will not worry us any more. Let us hope that his successor is a much more honest and decent man, as I am sure he is. I would like to have gone into the subject of the Government's overseas borrowings but time is against me. I would like to put something to the Australian public so that they will know what sort of government they have. This Government was going to restore economic viability and decency to Australia. When the Labour Government left office in November 1975 our national debt stood at $88 per head. That was the level of the national debt and that had been the level for about 20 years. I would like the public to know that now, for the first time in many years, our overseas borrowings exceed our national reserves. In fact, we are bankrupt. Every man, woman and child in Australia is now in hoek to overseas bankers to the extent of $325 per head. Those men listening at home to this speech who have a wife and four kids are up for six times $325, which is $1,950. 1 say to them. 'If an overseas banker comes knocking on your door tomorrow and says, 'One thousand nine hundred and fifty dollars please ', you may have to hand over your kids because you will not have the money'. That is the sort of situation in which this Government has the Australian people. When the Prime Minister came into this place this afternoon he was unable in any way to defend the policies or the lack of policies that his Government has pursued. He had the gall to stand in this place and sermonise to us about his vision for an Australian people, leading the people into the future. The only place he is leading us is into  unix:. 'certainty  and despair. The Australian public will show him that when he goes to the polls in the Grayndler by-election in a couple of weeks. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
Why is the main thrust of revitalising the Army Reserve being directed towards the Employer Support Scheme when the Millar Inquiry into the Citizens Military Forces revealed that retention problems resulted more from factors such as ineffective training and poor equipment than employer attitudes to the Reserve. 
-I would like to make a few remarks tonight. I would not like them to be considered maudlin in any way, but I think that they are comments that should be made. They refer to our parliamentary spouses. 
-Well, my electoral spouse. I am referring to the spouses whom all of us leave at home. I am particularly pleased to see the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  sitting in the chamber seeing that he has left a clutch of children at home. I am sure, therefore, that he will feel some sympathy with the remarks which I want to make. In the world in which we live we encounter in a lifetime a tremendous number of people. Some of these exert an influence on our lives, some of them are merely ships that pass in the night, and some of them may be classed as unforgettable characters. Some weeks ago in this House we paid tribute to a person who was in the latter category. I refer to the late member for Grayndler,  Mr Frank  Stewart. I do not wish to extend the condolence motion moved at the time or to try to embellish the lavish tributes which were made in honour of Frank Stewart They were so generously given and so well earned. 
-They were totally justified. I would like to place on record a few words about the family that Frank Stewart loved and the wife that he adored. I am encouraged to do this tonight by the fact that Maureen Stewart was sitting in the gallery today. Maureen Stewart is a magnificent woman- dignified, proud, compassionate, and a typical mother. In fact, she is a perfect example of Australian womanhood and a perfect parliamentary spouse, if I may use that term. Because of the peculiar nature of our profession, Maureen Stewart has been surrogate father to six children for the 26 years that Frank Stewart was a member of this House. For a great deal of that time, of course, Frank was here and 
Maureen Stewart was at home looking after the children. That she has done a magnificent job in that regard is fully evidenced by the family that Frank Stewart has left behind. I am sure that that was freely acknowledged by Frank when he was alive. 
Long absences from home is the penalty that a member pays for being in the Parliament. Maureen Stewart is the perfect model of a spouse enduring the loneliness which is common to all those who send their partners off to the Parliament in Canberra. In paying tribute to her, I also include all those other wives- in this case they are wives because there are no other women in this House; the members are all males- who are left behind at home. I pay tribute to all of those women who send their partners off to the Parliament in Canberra. It is a beautiful thing to be able to go home on a Friday night at the end of the parliamentary week to find a haven of peace and security which a wife has managed to maintain in our absence, while fathering children in a surrogate fashion and maintaining commitments within the electorate. The united family which Frank Stewart has left behind might well be described as the apotheosis of his political career and surely a fitting monument to all those great family causes which Frank Stewart so sincerely espoused in his parliamentary life. 
I pay tribute to the wives of the parliamentarians of Australia- not just of the members of this Parliament but also of the members of parliament in the States. While the members of Parliament become substantial figures in public life the wife is often neglected by the members, not in any deliberate way, but surely because of the peculiar nature of our profession. When Frank Stewart died the other day- of course we all mourn his passing because he was a very substantial figure, not only in this Parliament but in Australian life in general- it prompted  me to  reflect on the fact that we sometimes forget the great contribution that his wife made and all our wives make towards providing the members of the parliament of Australia. Tonight I refer to the fact that no monuments are built for the wives who support their families while their husbands are attending the parliament; no tributes are paid to parliamentary spouses as they are so generously paid to members who pass away by the remaining members of the Parliament. They are, in fact, the silent heroines, the people who are not lauded for their great contribution to Australian life. I would like all honourable members tonight to think of the women that we leave behind, the women who support us so generously without being fully recognised by the Australian public for the great contribution they make to Australian life. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
1 )  How  many prosecutions have been made against persons illegally receiving unemployment benefits in Australia in each year since 1975. 
How many of these prosecutions have been successful. 
-As I mentioned in opening my speech in the cognate debate, the Opposition opposes the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Collection Amendment Bill. To assist the House to get through the business on hand, we do not want to proceed to a division but we wish our strong opposition to these Bills to be recorded. With your indulgence,  Mr Acting Speaker,  I hope that that has been done by  Hansard. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
Five bills are being dealt with in this cognate debate and they are being dealt with in the absence of members of the National Country Party. There is not one member of that party here now that these agricultural Bills have come before us. This is a rather strange, but sometimes fairly typical attitude for them to adopt in respect to farmers. When a mining Bill is before us they are here en masse. With farming Bills they are not to be seen. 
The Opposition will be opposing these five Bills. The reason for our opposition is not that we oppose the principle for which these Bills stand, which is the eradication of disease in cattle in Australia, but basically because of the way the levy is raised. I make that point clear at the outset. 
The principal Bill is the Livestock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill. This Bill allows for an increase from $1 to $3 in the amount of the levy collected for the eradication of diseases. The purpose of the Bill is to amend the Livestock Slaughter Levy Act 1964 to increase the maximum rates of levy which may be prescribed for cattle disease eradication and to provide for the introduction of levies in the slaughter of two categories of calves. The importance of animal disease control to the future of the cattle industry cannot be stressed too highly. 
Our major export market- the USA- and a number of other countries which are either markets or important competitors for Australian beef are well on the way to eradicating completely tuberculosis and brucellosis. We want to be able to match those countries. In the circumstances, the tempo of the Australian campaign should be maintained or even increased. It is, however, a very costly business; we would not deny that. In the 3 years to June 1979 the Government will have provided grants totalling some $8.5m for the compulsory slaughter of reactor animalsthat is, animals that react to the TB test. Over the same period the Government has advanced $47m towards campaign operations. Recoveries from the disease eradication components of slaughter levies and export charges are estimated at only $28m. The result is that the net advances to the industry over the period have been approximately $ 19m. 
The Government has decided that such outstanding advances should bear interest at the long term bond rate from I July 1979. This is a totally new component; it has not happened before. Given the marked improvement in returns to the cattle industry in the past year, I suppose that we can argue to some extent that the industry's rate of contribution should be stepped up. The Bill reflects that decision. It provides for the maximum disease eradication levy on cattle slaughtered to be increased from $1 to $3. The Government has also agreed to a request from the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation that levies should be introduced on the slaughter of calves. This is a fairly reasonable proposition. It is obvious the the sections of the industry that produce calves are receiving a favourable component from the marketing and promotional activity of the AMLC, and also from the research funded from the slaughter levies. As these sorts of cattle are being slaughtered in increasing numbers, I imagine it is reasonable for them to be contributing towards these costs. The second Bill- the Livestock Slaughter Levy Collection Amendment Bill- is only a machinery Bill that allows an amendment to be made to the Act to the effect that that rate be increased. The third Bill- the Livestock Export Charge Amendment Bill- really refers to amending the Act to include the two types of calves that are being killed. 
The reason the Opposition is opposing these Bills is that there is a public health component in the eradication of tuberculosis and brucellosis and therefore there is a real justification for significant public subsidy. An Industries Assistance Commission report of 1975 recommended that the Commonwealth should make a greater contribution towards the eradication than it has done in the past. In our opinion the sizable proposed levy of $3 a head- and increase from $ 1 a head- would be unfair to the smaller States of Western Australia and Tasmania where these diseases have almost been eradicated. The present levy of $1 a head could probably be accepted and should be uniform throughout the Commonwealth, but we believe that the proposed levy of $3 a head is far too high. The Bills propose the imposition of the same charge on cattle exported live. I do not suppose that the Opposition could argue with that. Cattle exported live should help to pay in the same way as cattle slaughtered. 
The eradiction of tuberculosis and brucellosis was an 8-year campaign which resulted from a report by the IAC in 1975 and which embraced both the detection of the diseases and compensation for the slaughter of diseased animals. Compensation costs decline in time but detection costs are likely to increase. These costs decline in time because in the first instance many reactor cattle were killed and a lot of compensation had to be paid on those condemned animals. As time goes by the number killed because of reactor tests will decrease, so that that component is likely to decrease. The Commonwealth's liability is limited to 75 per cent of compensations payments for brucellosis and 50 per cent of payments for tuberculosis. Obviously the proportion of costs paid by the Commonwealth was at its highest level in the early years. 
The IAC's report of 1975 recommended that the Commonwealth pay 15 per cent of the 8-year cost, the industry 60 per cent and the States 25 per cent. That recommendation has not been followed. The figures are quite revealing. At this date the Commonwealth has paid only  Vh  per cent, which is half the figure suggested in the IAC report, and the industry has paid almost 68 per cent, which is 8 per cent above the figure proposed. The States have paid 25 per cent. The existing $ 1 levy is not yielding enough revenue to pay the industry contribution. The shortfall has been met by a government advance and has been recorded as a debt to the industry trust fund. Until now no interest has been levied on that loan. But the provisions contained in this legislation allow for that to be charged at the long term bond rate from 1 July. The estimated expenditure for 1978-79 is $37.5m. It is interesting to note its source. The industry levy will meet $7.8m of it, the State contribution will meet $8. 7m of it, the Commonwealth loan will meet $ 12. 1 m of it and the Commonwealth grant- that is, the compensation charges- will meet $8.7 of it. Compensation expenditure is now expected to be only $4m. This is the only contribution by the Commonwealth, apart from the loan which the industry is expected ultimately to repay. The proposed $3 levy is estimated to yield $23.26m, which should exceed the current industry expenditure and gradually repay the accumulated debt. The Commonwealth has not yet met its share of the scheme as envisaged by the IAC. 
-I am glad that the honourable member for Prospect, who is the shadow Minister for Health, agrees with me. I am sure that he will also agree that the Commonwealth should be contributing a greater share towards the eradication of what is a great health hazard. 
There are other points that should be made concerning these diseases. Unless the program is completed by 1984, Australian beef could be banned in the United States of America and other markets because eradication in northern Australia may not be possible. The cost of testing these cattle for these diseases varies widely between States and nobody seems to be able to tell us why this is so. In January 1979 the Australian Agricultural Council endorsed a modified detection plan with more emphasis on trace-back. It was estimated to save more than $30m over five years. That plan has not been implemented and the reason for that is not known. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  might be kind enough to explain that to us. 
When the Minister was speaking on the Livestock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill in 1 977 he had this to say: 
In addition the Producer Consultative Group and the Exporter and Abbattoir Consultative Groups provided for in the Australian Meat and Live-Stock Corporation Bill 1977 substitute for the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation and the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council for the purpose of recommending to the Corporation rates of levy payable under the Act. The Groups will not recommend the rates for the cattle disease eradication program, which will be set by the Minister. 
It is interesting to note that in 1977 the Minister spoke in the context of a producers consultative group being set up. I think it is proper at this stage of my remarks to refer to the failure of the Minister to implement the promise he made in 1977 to set up an elected producers consultative group. This body was to be established under the provisions of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation Act 1977 and was to be in operation by March 1978. It is now May 1979 and it is still not in operation. An interim consultative group was set up to facilitate the commencement of operations in the AMLC. These people were nominated by various producer groups and a firm commitment was given at that time for an elected body to be introduced at the earliest possible time. Many excuses have been advanced since that date, ranging from extreme workloads in the electoral office and a few other reasons. There has been talk of a cost of $250,000. But as yet the consultative group has not been set up. I know that there was some talk about waiting for an amalgamation of producer groups but I do not think that that is a reasonable excuse. It is high time that the 1977 promise was honoured and we will be pressing to see that that happens. 
Another very important aspect of the legislation is that in 1977 the point of collection of this levy was altered dramatically. Historically, the levy had been collected at the time the stock were sold by the stock and station agent. The Minister, in his second reading speech, on the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Collection Amendment Bill in 1977 stated: 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Collection Act 1964. The amendments are chiefly intended to simplify administrative procedures associated with the operation of that Act. The major amendment is the repeal of sections 10, 11, 12 and 13 of the Act which provide for slaughterers of livestock to pass the levy back to vendors, provided that the livestock are slaughtered within 30 days from the date of purchase. 
There have been many allegations of abuse of this provision. Because of this and the fact that the 'pass back ' has no effect on the collection of the levy, the Government has decided to delete the provision. The levy will continue to be payable by the owner of the livestock at the time when slaughter takes place. Depending upon the method of marketing the livestock this could be a livestock producer. The actual incidence of the levy is likely to vary over time depending upon supply and demand conditions. In times of oversupply of livestock the levy is likely to be reflected in prices paid to livestock producers. In the reverse situation the levy will tend to be absorbed further along the marketing chain. 
The important point is that in altering the character of the person who pays the levy the Minister used this rationale: 
In times of oversupply of livestock the levy is likely to be reflected in prices paid to livestock producers. 
When that decision was invoked in 1977 cattle prices were very low, and I do not think that the industry reacted adversely to the Minister's rationale. The industry accepted, basically, that when cattle prices were low and there were excesses of meat on the market it was obvious that the levy, which was then $1 a head, could be passed back to the producer in terms of reduced prices. But working on the same rationale, the Minister said: 
In the reverse situation the levy will tend to be absorbed further along the marketing chain. 
That is very true. In times of short supplies of cattle and enormously high prices such as exist at the moment there can be no justification for the levy being paid by the owner of the livestock at the point of slaughter. Cattle prices have risen to enormous heights, and I am not going to deplore that. As a person who has been active in the meat industry for a long time, I am happy to see that producers are getting a reasonable return for their stock. 
-The honourable member for Paterson agrees with me. 
-That is true. Members on this side of the House take a very realistic view of the agricultural industry. We realise the great benefits that flow to the Australian economy generally from improved conditions in the agricultural area. We do not dispute the fact that producers are getting a good return for their cattle. We applaud it. But if it was fair enough to remove the levy from the producers and impose it on the owners of cattle at the point of slaughter when cattle prices were low, is it not reasonable now to put the levy back where it has been historically- with the producer? The producer is making enormous amounts of money on his cattle. Disease eradication programs are set up basically to advantage the producer. The producer loses money if his stock are condemned because of tuberculosis or brucellosis. The cattle die on the farm. But this levy is being passed on to the owner at the point of slaughter. As the Minister said, this tends to be absorbed further down the line, and of course it is. The fact is that local consumers of Australian meat who were paying a levy of $ 1 , worked out on the Minister 's rationale, are now paying a levy of $3 because the Government has changed the point of collection. The Government is now asking the consumers who buy meat at the butcher shop to pay a $3 levy to help in the eradication of disease. That is one of the reasons we are opposing this Bill. The first reason is that we think that the Commonwealth Government should be making a greater contribution towards what is essentially a health program, but more importantly, we think that the levy should be placed where it was historically- with the producer of cattle. 
I think it is reasonable at this stage to reflect a little on the present state of the cattle industry. In 1973 there was an enormous boom in the cattle industry. Exports were running along strongly and the projections were that export markets would remain strong for the following five of six years. In retrospect, that was bad advice from the Australian Meat Board. Its prediction did not come true and the market collapsed very quickly. The great excess of cattle in Australia fell on to the local market. Consequently farmers were getting greatly reduced prices for their cattle. This was the case in 1977. Cattle that were worth $450 in 1973 were selling for $70 very shortly thereafter. The meat industry, since that time, has experienced a series of highs and lows, a series of peaks and troughs. We on this side of the House are very concerned that the beef industry in particular should develop some sort of plateau so that farmers know almost exactly what their stock is worth. I think that farmers would agree privately that they do not want to get $400 or $500 for their bullocks today and $70 next year. They would like to get a price which is realistic compared with the cost of production and with the effort they put into producing the product. In order for this to happen we have to have real co-ordination between all sections of the industry. Farmers have said to me privately that they are concerned at the very high prices for export cattle at the moment, and of course this reflects itself in the local market. 
In the last 12 months the Government, through the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation, has spent a lot of money trying to bolster the local consumption of meat, which dropped alarmingly over the period of high export prices back in 1973-74. We had something like a 60 per cent increase in consumption on the local market in the 12 months up until the recent boom in export prices. The odds are that the export market will not continue for any great length of time. I am not trying to be a prophet of doom. I would like to think that there is always an avenue for our beef both in the United States and in Japan, which are our major markets, and also in the East and, if we can arrange it, in the European Economic Community countries. However, the odds are that the market will collapse. We all know, if we look at this matter realistically, that a strong agricultural lobby is at work in America. It is likely, with a presidential election coming up, that some counter-cyclical legislation could be introduced which would completely reverse the situation. The tail would then fall out of our cattle prices. Bullocks that are worth $500 today might be worth $100 tomorrow. We would then have to try to increase the local consumption again. 
It would be much better if the Minister could lean on the AMLC to see that it takes the meat industry by the throat and exerts more influence over the industry to ensure that prices are kept at a realistic level all the time instead of having highs and lows. That would have ramifications right throughout the industry. It would mean that farmers would know approximately what they would get for their cattle. They would know that there would be a reasonable return. Of course we want a reasonable return for producers. With all the problems of national disasters, fires, droughts, locusts and the vagaries of nature that farmers face, of course they are entitled to a handsome return for their work. We do not dispute that, but we do not want to see the fluctuations in markets that have been experienced over the last few years. 
In suggesting to the Minister that there is some real lack of logic, for one thing, and morality, for another, in continuing to place this levy on the slaughter of the cattle and, once having done that, increasing it, I point out to him the present local beef market situation. The costs of handling cattle have increased enormously over the last few years. I quoted some figures in the House before and I will do so again. I think that the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  will be pleased to hear them because they relate to prices for killing cattle at the Gunnedah abattoir in his electorate, and in which he has a vested interest. I agree with him that Gunnedah is the most efficient killing centre in New South Wales and the second cheapest. I do not dispute that at all. 
Let me refer to the costs of handling cattle that were purchased at Tamworth, killed at Gunnedah and sold at Homebush. One dollar goes to a commission buyer and transport to the works costs $3. The kill charge is $16.65; hide handling costs 52c; cattle compensation is $1.10; the livestock levy is $1.84; the inspection fee is $1.50- that is the State inspection fee- freight and load-out charges are $6; Meat Board charges are $6.32; and cartage to shop costs $5.70. That is, it costs a total of $42.63 just to buy a beast, kill it and sell it wholesale in Sydney. This legislation will increase that cost by $2. 
-That is the average cost per head. So we are looking at paying something like $45 to kill one beast. I suggest to honourable members that those people who are handling beef on the local market at the moment are going through a desperately bad time. The exporters have achieved great prosperity; good luck to them. The farmers have achieved enormous prosperity; good luck to them. Let me remind the farmers that when the export market collapses, as it may well do, they will be looking to the local meat wholesaler to pull them out of trouble as they did in the years between 1973 and 1977, by trying to push people to buy meat. 
The current prices are going to push the farmers out of business unless someone is prepared to take the industry by the throat and choke some sense into it. The rate of consumption of local beef is going down and, in the long run, that is to the detriment of the industry. Retail meat prices in Australia at the moment are moving up to the level of world prices. The headlines in a Sydney newspaper this week state that fillet steak costs $9 a kilogram and that rump steak costs $6 a kilogram. Those are the sorts of prices that one would pay for beef in Europe. I do not think that the Australian public should be asked to pay those prices. 
The solutions rest with the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation, the Minister for Primary Industry and the industry generally. I do not intend to suggest those solutions, but I suggest quite seriously that the AMLC, given the legislative powers that it has, could perhaps enter the export market as a principal exporter. I could not see any reason at all why the AMLC could not take charge of the export sales of meat in Australia or why, depending on the export quotas that apply, it could not on a proportionate basis deal out these orders to the people who have a quota. 
We have the situation at the moment where all the exporters in Australia are compering against one another and clawing one another to death to buy the cattle that are available. This is making for enormous prices in cattle and is causing another one of the ebbs and flows, the troughs and waves, about which I spoke before. It would be very much better if we had some sort of plateau level where the farmer could receive a very handsome return on his stock while at the same time providing stock for the Australian local market at a reasonable price. The sooner that happens, the better. 
I think that all primary producers believe that the people at the other end of the scale- the wholesale and retail butchers- play a very important part in turning farmers' stock into money. As I have mentioned before- I think it is worth repeating- the farmer cannot march down to the bank with a herd of bullocks; the bank will not accept it. He needs cash. The butcher has been charged over many generations with the responsibility of turning the farmers' stock into money. The wholesale butchers want to be at peace with the farmers. This present situation is quite ludicrous. I know of many instances which have occurred in New South Wales in the last couple of months of butchers having been on properties trying to buy cattle. The only way in which they could buy them was to produce the cash. This is a deplorable situation. 
The farmers have made so much money out of cattle in the last 12 months that they are not marketing them until the end of June; or, if they do market them, they want to do so for illicit cash. I do not think that this is the sort of proposition that we on this side of the House want to support. I am sure it is not the sort of proposition that the National Country Party wants to support. I am sure that we share the National Country Party's view that the sooner the beef industry is put back on a reasonable basis- that is, that there is a profit for everyone, that the farmer can look forward to the future with confidence knowing that his cattle will be worth a reasonable amount of money all the time, rather than being worth a lot of money one day and nothing the next- the better off the industry will be. 
As I said at the outset, the reason we are opposing these Bills is twofold. Firstly, we think that the Commonwealth should, in line with the Industries Assistance Commission's report, have a greater input in relation to a matter which is really a health problem- that is, the eradication of cattle disease. All the responsibility for this should not be pushed on to the industry, no matter who is paying for it. Secondly, we disagree with the way in which the levy is raised. We would like to see the levy go back to the producer where it historically belongs. Previously when the producer sold his cattle at an auction the levy was deducted by the stock and station agent from the proceeds. In that way the producer was substantially paying this levy which is imposed basically to advance his end of the industry. The present situation is that the levy is collected from the wholesale butcher or the exporter at the time the cattle are slaughtered. I think this is a totally immoral proposition. As I pointed out, it is backed up by the rationale put forward by the Minister when he altered the historical source of the levy. 
Whilst we oppose the Bill, I point out to the House that, because of the volume of business before the House and because of the limited time available at the end of the session, we will not proceed to a division. However, we would like our opposition to these measures recorded very clearly. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for National Development. On 7 
February did he state that a major discussion paper would be prepared shortly on energy policy? In one of his many background briefings to the Press, did he say in February that it would go to Cabinet in March? Did he further state on 26 March that the Green Paper would be distributed publicly very shortly? Has the original government paper been redrafted three times? In particular, how many times has it been redrafted since the Opposition's energy draft paper was released? Can the Minister now state when the final draft of his Green Paper will be unveiled publicly? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
Is it a fact that Australian passports which are posted to recipients are sent by ordinary mail and not registered mail; if so, has the Government any intention of changing this procedure. 
I would like to make a few remarks about the Government's decision to introduce this amendment. I suggest that it is a victory for the sensitivity of people over the boorishness of the Government. As the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  has pointed out, at the time of the last Budget some of the less sensitive measures that were introduced by the Government and later repudiated- the tax on paper boys and the tax on the blind- were in line with the sorts of measures the Government has 

<graphic href="114131197906051_35_3.jpg"></graphic>

introduced here. The rationale behind this levy is the raising of extra revenue by taxation, a measure which over a period the Government has found it increasingly easy to introduce and which has brought it into increasingly greater disrepute. The Customs duty on books and other publications breaches one of the basic mores of our society that knowledge should be freely available to all and not subject to taxes and other government restrictions. I am pleased to see that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)-  one of the Ministers on the front bench whom we on this side of the House respect- has seen the insensitivity of the legislation and has introduced this amendment. 
The basic need for the free flow of information between countries has been recognised by no less a body than the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation. Australia is a member of UNESCO, and these beliefs are incorporated in the Florence Agreement, which was adopted in 1950 and guarantees a free flow of specific types of published material, including books, newspapers and periodicals. The Agreement, as the honourable member for Adelaide has pointed out, has been ratified by 81 countries. Unfortunately, Australia is not one of them. However, in the past it has upheld the principles of the Agreement by not imposing tariff or quota restrictions on the publications specified. When the Government brought down the mini-Budget it obviously had no qualms about breaking this implicit acceptance of the spirit of the Florence Agreement. This comes as little surprise. The Opposition and the Australian public have become quite used to this Government breaking its promises, as has happened so often in the past, but at least in this area the breaking of the promise has been quickly repudiated. I applaud the Minister for his quick acknowledgment of the mistake. I particularly applaud the New South Wales branch of the Children's Book Council of Australia, which sent me a telegram stating: 
The Children's Book Council of Australia NSW Branch considers that the Government's proposal to tax imported books a contravention of the spirit of UNESCO of which Australia is a member and in particular of the Florence Agreement. Such a tax will preclude many parents in providing cultural enrichment for their children which is deplorable particularly in this the International Year of the Child. (signed) June Smith  (President) 
The Opposition, of course, intended to oppose this Bill in the first instance. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs has seen fit to introduce this amendment, and we applaud him for that decision, while opposing the Bill in total. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I second the amendment.  Mr Deputy Speaker  - 
That the question be now put. 
-In speaking to the response that the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  has made to a report of the Standing Committee on Expenditure I would like to start my remarks by suggesting to the Minister that the whole response leads me to wonder what parliamentary committees are for. I wonder whether they are set up only to be a sop to the back benchers on the Government side to keep them busy or whether they are really set up to provide objective, rational, critical analysis of government programs, their aims, objectives and performances. The Expenditure Committee under the chairmanship of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and formerly under the  Deputy  Chairmanship of our late lamented colleague,  Mr Frank  Stewart, exemplifies the real reason for the Parliament's existence. Surely bipartisan investigation of public expenditure is one of the real reasons why all members are sent here by our electorates. We believe that the results which this Committee has produced in a number of subjects have been nonpolitical, bipartisan, honest assessments of expenditure of public funds. 
The Northern Territory forestry examination was a classical example of that rationale being implemented. The three members of the subcommittee, the honourable member for Lilley, the honourable member for Penh  (Mr McLean)  and I, had the complimentary advice of Australia's most eminent forester,  Mr Kel  McGrath, who is the former Dean of Forestry at the Australian National University and who has been decorated by the United Nations for his work in the forests of Brazil. There is nobody in Australia with a higher degree of expertise in the forestry area than Kel McGrath. We were very lucky to have his services. 
I would like to reacquaint members of the House with the history of the project. The investigation into Northern Territory Forestry was promoted by a report which was made to the Parliament by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  who suggested that there might be some scope for forestry in the Northern Territory. The history of the report is that the Committee, after its short investigation, discovered that there had been a $30m waste of public money over 20 years. I would think that the report we issued should be a salutary warning to governments, and particularly to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, of how governments can be seduced and fooled by devious officials. The original Cabinet submission of 1959 which promoted the scheme was an exaggerated assessment of the Northern Territory's forestry potential. These reports were provided by people either blatantly dishonest or lacking in the technical expertise they were supposed to possess. Their error was probably a combination of both factors, that is, poor advice provided by mediocre foresters with a more than acute sense of potential empire building. Over the years this web of deception and/or ignorance, inexcusable from highly paid people described as experts, has been allowed to spread until a pathetic situation revealed by our inquiry 20 years later was ultimately reached. 
The sub-committee, on its visit to the Northern Territory, was appalled not only by what it found but what it did not find. The gentleman to whom I referred earlier,  Mr Kel  McGrath, spent days in the forestry areas looking for what he aptly described as the mythical tree, even one that was worth harvesting. The professional sense of  Mr McGrath,  a world renowned forester, was assailed and offended by what the Department was exhibiting as its precious resource. The native eucalypts have practically no commercial value and the pine plantations exhibited growth rates well below accepted levels. The scheme was originally set up with three high-sounding ideals; preserving the natural resource, providing youthful employment for Aborigines and conserving the soil, water and wildlife. On each count it has been a splendid failure. 
In 1955 a report was published by an eminent forester named  Mr Bateman  which stated in unequivocal terms the limitations on forestry development in the Northern Territory. This report was a realistic assessment of the Northern Territory forestry resources and its little potential for development. The report gave due recognition to the realities of the Northern Territory environment. Despite the truth of this report a large forestry organisation was developed. The organisation was significant in terms of Northern Territory expenditure and personnel employed. This organisation completely overshadowed the meagre forestry resource. The forest itself had always offered mute protests. Despite paper expectations and peoples' opinions, the resource remained as it was and always will be, a very poor and primitive one. 
The simple figures of this 1955 report illustrate the overstatement of the Department's view of its resources. For example, the Maningrida area had, according to the Department, a projected output of 2,245 super feet an acre. The real production and what was eventually produced was accurately nominated by the 1955 report as 100 super feet an acre. The 100 super feet an acre is a much different result from a projection of 2,245 feet an acre. That figure is something we cannot accept. 
There are a few other interesting statistics which come from the report, but I will not bore the House with the lot of them. A few of them are these: The Department of Aboriginal Affairs admits to spending $870,000 since 1971 for Aboriginal enterprises in forestry. The total return has been $33,000. At Umbakumba, $45,000 was spent with no return. At Maningrida $370,000 was spent in 1 975-76 for a return of $ 1 ,500. Even that does not include a quarter of a million dollars spent on a defunct sawmill which we saw rusting away. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has spent $948,000 in less than three years on forestry research with such a significant lack of results that it is now withdrawn from the Northern Territory. One of the answers to one of the sub-committee 's questionnaires suggested that surveyed areas of natural timber on Melville Island totalled 695,000 hectares. As the total area of Melville 
Island is only 570,000 we wondered where the area to plant the rest would be found. Overstatements like these are fairly typical of the figures that were quoted to us. 
One simple fact emerges. Despite the idealism of the original concept, despite the great efforts over the years of many of the more devoted forestry staff to conquer the myriad of problems, the grant dream is in tatters. One telling statistic fully illustrates the history of this ill-conceived and disastrous venture. The Department in 1974 informed the Forwood Conference that the anticipated production of hardwood sawlogs in the Territory in 1980 would be 58,000 cubic metres. Despite criticism from foresters, this figure for 1980 production was raised again in 1977 to 82,000 cubic metres. The Committee is now informed that the figure has been revised in 1978 to zero. 
The Minister, in his response to our report, does less than justice to the amount of work which went into the investigations and ultimate report of the Standing Committee on Expenditure. The Minister has virtually said: 'Thanks for your trouble but the Northern Territory now has self-government and may use the money it gets anyway it likes'. This reply to the Committee's report is certainly not good enough. The Committee was well aware of the approach of selfgovernment in the Northern Territory when it started the investigation. The Minister virtually tells us now that the Committee's report is superfluous. Although the Committee's investigation did not commence until 26 April, the report was tabled on 2 June, for the reason of the approach of self-government. That was stated, in fact, in the introduction of the report. Indeed, as the inquiry proceeded, the need for urgency became startingly evident so that necessary Commonwealth action could be taken before the Territory obtained self-government on 1 July. 
As the Committee began to find, an estimated $30m in expenditure had been wasted. It was essential, the Committee decided, that the conditions under which the Territory obtained the money from the Commonwealth should be clearly understood by the Northern Territory Government to exclude the possibility of the continuance of this profligacy. In contrast, the Minister saw no urgency at all in the matter. Instead of treating it as one demanding immediate action, the Minister has not even observed the procedure outlined by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The Prime Minister promised that all committee reports would be answered within six months. I refer the House to the fact that the Committee 's report was tabled on 2 June 1978 and the response has been made on 7 June 1979. Meanwhile the Northern Territory Government has comfortably settled into the new order which in the absence of any action from the Commonwealth relative to the Committee's report is, in this matter of forestry, merely a continuation of the old order to which the Committee tried to apply the brakes. 
The Minister's statement indicates incorrectly that the Northern Territory has diverted a significant proportion of the operational expenditure of the former Forestry Branch to parks and gardens operations in Darwin, Alice Springs and other locations. He does not indicate that the expenditure of public funds has been reduced to the extent of a curtailment in forestry funds, but merely that they have found an additional way of spending the money. Surely the Minister does not imply that he believes this is compatible with the austerity the Government is attempting to impose on practically every other avenue of government expenditure? 
The intention to continue planting on Melville Island is one of the more unjustified examples that the Northern Territory Government is now showing of its absolute lack of faith in our report. A decision to continue planting would rank with the decision to spend millions of dollars on resource inventory in the hope of a woodchip export, for which there never has been any possibility because of the constant burning of forests by the Aborigines in the Northern Territory. Since the Minister's statement appears to accept the Queenslander 's rejection of the report for the cessation of Melville Island softwood afforestation, as was instanced by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  it is pertinent to examine this aspect of the report. It is worth noting that the Chief Minister s investigators asked the interesting question: If it truly believed that forestry can be an economicaal proposition in the Northern Territory, 'why not try to attract private enterprise to undertake forestry production?' Why not, indeed? Private investment in afforestation has been established elsewhere in Australia for half a century. Why should it not be established near Darwin, which is starved for local supplies and entirely dependent on costly imports? Perhaps private afforestation would make a killing there, although one should examine the rationale under which the Northern Territory forestry operates. 
There are a number of cautions which private enterprise would consider before it put money into a forestry venture. It is justifiable that governments would expect to make less profit on their revenue than perhaps private industry would make, but when we look at the problems involved I do not think that stands up to examination. The Melville Island prospects are too low for even a government to accept a combination of impossibly low productivity, Northern Territory termites, floods, fires, climate problems, soils, cyclones, Aboriginal ownership and Aboriginal burning traditions. All of these add up to a formidable parcel. All but the last two are not unknown elsewhere, but each hazard is extreme under Northern Territory conditions. In combination, they add up to a pretty disturbing prospect. 
The Queensland foresters saw three other ways of spending forestry money in the Northern Territory, and the Committee rejected all three without reservation. Particularly in relation to softwood afforestation, we felt that here was just another example of what an increasing number of expert examiners have concluded to be the reason for failure after failure in the Northern Territory, namely, the idea that all one needs to do is transplant the technology of the temperate regions to the Northern Territory and it is bound to succeed. Despite early promise, it has always failed when it develops to the point of putting stress on the slender resources of the site. This has been fully documented time and time again. As Heatley, who is a very eminent author, concludes in his scholarly work  'The Government of the Northern Territory": 
Neither should the lessons of Territory history be ignored; too many failures have occurred in the past to discount the likelihood of others in the future. In that event, however, there would be one significant difference; for the first time (Le. since self-government) the responsibility for failure could not be attributed so easily to the shortcomings of a remote administration. 
I hope the people of the Northern Territory bear that in mind, because so it has been in Northern Territory forestry- both failure and the passing of the buck to Canberra. Plantations of cypress pine on Melville Island were commended to the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science by the Northern Territory chief forester as the saviour of Darwin 's dependence for its timber on costly outside supply. That was in 1 97 1 , but almost at once the cypress started to fail to live up to its promise. His expectation of a growth rate of 1 50 cubic ft per acre per year almost immediately started to slide as the plantations developed and began to stress the limitations of the site. That figure of 150 slipped to 100, to 60, to 50, and now, within seven years of the figure of 150 being put forward, the Queenslanders put the growth rate at about 20 cubic feet. 
Meanwhile, with the failure of cypress already recognised, the switch was made to pinus caribaea as the plantation species. Will it go the same way? The Queenslanders obviously hope it will not because they recommend that taxpayers' money still go into it, despite all the risks and hazards. They estimate that hopefully it will grow 10 cubic metres per hectare per annum- a productivity figure one half of the figure that is still not good enough for afforestation in South Australia, the State with the longest and greatest development of plantations in the Commonwealth. Moreover, it is a figure which is only onefifth of that which pinus radiata plantations actually achieve on the average in that State. How the Commonwealth Treasury can now stop the Northern Territory Government spending Commonwealth money in a continuation of the practice that it inherited from its predecessor to statehood, which the Minister now defends, certainly poses a problem. As one rueful observer recently ruminated: 'Well might the taxpayer ask: "When departmental expenditure has gathered full headlong momentum, can it ever be stopped?" Perhaps the bureaucrat always wins'. Certainly the Minister's cavalier treatment of the Expenditure Committee's report will not help. The Minister concluded that the Government believes the two reports will form a valuable basis for consideration by the Northern Territory Government. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
How many (a ) temporary and ( b ) permanent staff are currently located at the office of (i) Australia Post, Westfield Shopping Town, N.S.W. and (ii) Telecom, 5th Floor, 30 Darcy Street, Parramatta, N.S. W. 
I almost feel sorry for the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter);  not only is he staring defeat right in the face in the forthcoming general election, but as somebody has suggested, he apparently drew the short straw and has had to stand up in this chamber and defend a policy that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  will not defend because it is totally indefensible. The motion moved by the honourable member for Blaxland (  Mr Keating)  reads: 
The use of a selective and disguised $2,000m petrol tax on motorists to hide the real impact of the Prime Minister's high tax policies. 
That is exactly what we are trying to establish here now. Three definite facts have emerged. Firstly, and nobody from the Government side will deny this, within three years the price of petrol in Australia has doubled. As the honourable member for Blaxland has pointed out, the farmers are probably listening to the parliamentary broadcast this afternoon. However, I might add that there is not one member of the National Country Party in the chamber. I should have thought that petrol pricing would have been a most important policy as far as the National Country Party was concerned. Surely if doubling the price of petrol affects anybody it is the farmers, yet there is not one of their worthy representatives in this chamber to defend them. Where are they? Perhaps they are out defending the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  Perhaps they are helping him with his tax return. 
The honourable member for Kalgoorlie told us that the price of petrol in Hong Kong is higher than in Australia. I am sure that the people of the electorate of Kalgoorlie who have to drive a thousand miles would be very concerned to learn that somebody in Hong Kong who has to drive only five miles is paying a bit more for his petrol! Hong Kong does not have a natural source of domestic oil. It has to import its oil, which is something that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie seems to have forgotten. So here we have the honourable member for Kalgoorlie, in a very doubtful seat, defending the Government's most doubtful policy, to be supported by the apologist for the nuclear industry, the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Roger Johnston).  For heaven's sake, where are Government Ministers? Are they not prepared to defend this policy? 
The simple fact is that the price of petrol has doubled within three years. The important point that we want to make to the public is that the Government has made a conscious effort to blame the Arab countries for this, to blame the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries increases for the increase in Australian petrol prices. But such is not the case. 
-Yes, I do read the papers but I read only the truth. I do not read what the Government has to tell us. The point I want to make is that Australia is in a most fortunate position. We have a 70 per cent production of oil within our own domestic capacities. We have to import only 30 per cent of our crude oil from overseas, and most of that 30 per cent comprises heavy industrial crudes anyhow. The simple fact is that almost 90 per cent of motor distillate used in Australia is refined from Australian crude. The Government has a vested interest in having the public believe that the Arabs are responsible for this hike in petrol prices. This has been reinforced by reports on television of a group of Arabs sitting down in Vienna and other places to determine what the world price for oil will be. This does not bear much relation to the situation in Australia. The fact that we have 70 per cent local production is a big reason why petrol should not be the price it is in Australia. 
I notice the Minister for National Development smiling. I do not know what he is smiling about. I am sure that all the people who are listening to this broadcast and who are paying another $7 a tank for their juice will not be smiling. I am sure that they will not be confused if there are some handouts in the Budget tonight honouring the promise that we saw in the newspapers back in 1977, that fistful of dollars that pandered to human greed. I hope that the people do not think that any handout they might get tonight will be a fulfilment of that promise. It will simply be returning what the people are being robbed of when they buy a tank of petrol. So let us put that furphy to rest. It will be no great generous effort by the Government if it gives the people some tax relief tonight; it will simply be returning some of what the people have paid in the last three years in the form of higher petrol prices. 
The honourable member for Kalgoorlie suggested that we on this side of the House do not have a positive policy with regard to petrol pricing or with regard to the petroleum industry. I advise the honourable member to get hold of the paper produced by the honourable member for Blaxland at our conference in Adelaide just recently. The honourable member for Blaxland pointed out in that paper that an Australian Labor Government would form, as is done in almost every other developed country with the exception of the United States basically, a national oil company to be known as the Australian Hydrocarbons Corporation. This Corporation would involve itself not only in exploration but also in the refining and retailing of petrol. And it would provide a governmenttogovernment basis for negotiation with the Arab countries. It would give the national government a real say in its energy policy, something which this Government badly lacks. The Minister for National Development would be the first to admit, privately I presume, that the Government has no real knowledge of what the energy situation is. The Government's belief is: Leave it all to the oil companies; leave it all to the nine sisters. What a way to have one's national future lined up, with the oil companies deciding what is going to happen. 
I think a few figures are very telling. Seventy per cent of our oil is produced locally. It costs less than a dollar a barrel for producers, particularly Bass Strait producers, to produce that oil. So consumers are paying $18.66 a barrel for that oil which costs less than a dollar a barrel to produce. On average, with the 42 per cent that attracts world parity price and the 58 per cent of the total production that does not, the total return to the producer is $5. 12 a barrel while the return to the Government is $ 1 3.54 a barrel. So the companies get $5.12 a barrel for oil that it costs them $1 a barrel to produce, and of that $4 profit, the Government gets half anyhow. The simple facts are that the high cost of petrol in Australia is determined by the Government. 
It is a conscious decision of the Government to make people pay more for their petrol in Australia in order to finance the booming deficit that it has developed because of its incompetence in economic matters. They are the simple facts. We are not paying a high price for petrol in Australia because of any OPEC decision. We are paying a higher price merely because of a conscious decision by this Government to hike up the price of petrol to cover its booming deficit. So let the furphy that it is the Arabs who have caused the high price of petrol in Australia be put to rest. It is a government decision and it is a government decision that the Government does not want to go back on. 
In 1977 when the Government decided to move progressively towards world parity pricing we as an Opposition did not dispute this because we realised that the oil companies have to be encouraged to explore. The Government used as its rationale the fact that a higher price for petrol would provide some impetus for these companies to look for more expensive wells in Bass Strait and perhaps to explore in other areas. We did not dispute that. The other reason was that it would provide some sort of rationalisation of our use of petrol, that it might prevent the wasteful use of petrol. But that has not happened. The honourable member for Blaxland has cited the figures. 
-The Minister's own Department decided that the increase in petrol consumption this year would be 2.7 per cent whereas in fact it is 5.2 per cent; it has doubled. Exploration has not gone ahead despite the rantings and ravings of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie. Exploration in Australia is almost decimated. Only 19 new wells have been put down in the first half of this year. No oil has been discovered in Australia since September 1975.I repeat: There has not been one new oil discovery. So do not let us have this rubbish about the Government encouraging exploration or there being an improvement in exploration. It is a nonsense. The simple fact is that more oil has not been discovered and very little exploration is going on. 
The fact is that the public is paying twice what it paid for petrol in 1975. This financial year the Government will get over $3,000m in revenue from the sale of petrol to the Australian public. This is $ 1,000m more than it got last year. This Government has plucked $ 1,000m out of the pockets of the Australian people by a sleight of hand and it wants them to believe that this has happened because of the Arab decision to raise the price of oil. It was a conscious decision of this Government to rob the Australian public of $ 1,000m this year. Perhaps tonight it will give a little back and say: 'We are honouring our promise of 1 977 to give you some tax cuts. ' Such is not the case. If the Arabs had not decided to put up the price of their petrol as they have in the last couple of years, I do not know what the deficit would be. It would probably be about $4,000m. The people of Australia would have no hope of having that election promise of a tax cut honoured. They believed that promise and it helped to elect the present government. 
I notice that members of the National Country Party have now entered the chamber. I welcome them to the discussion on petrol pricing. I am sure that all the farmers of Australia will be very pleased to hear that they take an active interest in the fact that the petrol prices they have had to pay in order to try to harvest their crops have been doubled in three years. I am sure that they will be delighted to see that two members of the National Country Party have belatedly appeared to represent them. The facts are very simple. This Government has introduced a petrol pricing policy merely as a tax on the motorist. Let the motorists of Australia simply and clearly understand this. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that with an increase in average weekly earnings of only 9 per cent to  9lA  per cent, as forecast in the Budget Papers, tax paid by wage and salary earners will increase by 15 per cent this year? Is the Prime Minister also aware that for many low income taxpayers the percentage increase in tax to be paid this year will be much higher than 15 per cent? For instance, a taxpayer with a dependent spouse who received $8,000 last year, with a 9 per cent increase in wages this year will pay 28 per cent more tax? Will the Prime Minister now concede that this Budget substantially increases the overall burden of income tax and further reduces the living standards of the Australian people? 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
1 ) Can he give positive assurances that no further atomic waste deposits exist in atomic test areas in this country other than the deposit found at Maralinga in South Australia. 
If other deposits do exist, can he guarantee that they are adequately secured against possible terrorist infiltration. 
I want again to draw the attention of the House to the extraordinary machinations which senior members of the Liberal Party are indulging in over the matter of  Mr Lyenko  Urbanchich, the suspended  President  of the Ethnic Council of the Liberal Party in New South Wales. The basic facts of the Urbanchich case were set out in the House last night. But there has been an extraordinary response from those senior Liberal Party members who would be expected to be able to throw most light on this matter. We had the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  deliberately avoiding a parliamentary question which gave him the chance to establish his bona fides on the issue of the self styled Croatian 'embassy' in Canberra. As my colleague, the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  has pointed out, the doubts which have been cast upon the Government's declared policy towards the Croatian 'embassy' are threatening to undermine it completely. Yet the Prime Minister dived for cover when given the chance to clear the air. 
Prior to that we had the emotional intervention in the adjournment debate last night by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  who is, of course, a former General Secretary of the New South Wales division of the Liberal Party. He appealed to us, in effect, to shut up about  Mr Urbanchich  and his pro-nazi, antiJewish background. He told us that  Mr Urbanchich  had the same rights as the six million Jews who were killed in Europe in World War II. I have no idea what he meant by that. The honourable member's predecessor as New South Wales Secretary of the Liberal Party was  Senator John  Carrick, the Government Leader in the Senate. Yesterday in the other place  Senator Carrick  offered to make available to the Parliament a number of political documents bearing on the Urbanchich case. Today he violently resisted that course of action when it was proposed by us, claiming quite spurious legal reasons to excuse his change of heart. I assure him and everybody else interested in this case that the Opposition is fully conversant with the documents in question. We were more interested in seeing that others had access to them. Having been denied the logical and usual course, we will take other opportunities to make available access to them. 
But I do not intend to mince words here,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I put it to both the honourable member for Mackellar and the Government Leader in the Senate that they have an obligation to this Parliament and indeed to themselves to explain their roles in the Urbanchich affair, an affair which is seen by many as tantamount to an extreme right wing infiltration of the Liberal Party in New South Wales. The story is circulating freely and colourfully that  Mr Urbanchich  was recognised as an extremist by  Senator Carrick  when he ran the Liberal Party machine and that  Mr Urbanchich  was kept down in the party during that period. He nourished in the party, according to the story, during the stewardship of the honourable member for Mackellar. From there he began his meteoric rise to power which very nearly led to his takeover of the New South Wales Liberal Party machine. I do not feel it necessary to have to spell out to both honourable members of this Parliament why there is a need for them to explain their roles. 
I regard as contemptible the sort of smokescreen that the Government Leader in the Senate attempted to lay tonight in his interview on the radio program  P.M.  He shrugged off the Urbanchich allegations with suggestions that there were probably dozens of similar embarrassments for us in the ranks of the Labor Party. He knows that is not true. If he has any evidence of it I invite him to bring it forward. The evidence against Urbanchich is extensive and tested. It ill becomes any responsible Liberal Party member to treat it so lightly. If  Senator Carrick  doubts the anti-Jewish propaganda for which Urbanchich was responsible I am prepared to quote him some examples. At the end of the War Urbanchich was editor of the official newspaper of the Nazi occupiers of Slovenia- a publication called  Slovensko Domobranstvo.  In April 1945 there appeared a signed article in that publication written by Urbanchich which stated: 
Peace is what we are all yearning for. 
There are those people who endlessly yearn for peace but say that it does not matter, who shall bring peace . . . 
Skipping on just a sentence or two for brevity, it continued: 
While they want peace regardless of what it shall bring, they do not see in the background the cynically and monstrously sneering face of the one who produced today's bloody drama, in which our nation also plays its bloody role. 
That is the one who is enjoying blood and ruins, tears and hatred, because he knows that from the blood-soaked earth shall spring the red seed that shall ripen into sheaves. 
That is the face of the one who is cunningly and crudely convincing nations that nationalism is outlived, that religion is the affair of old women, and that the family is old-fashioned. 
That is the face of the cynical Jew. 
That is a sample of the writings of Lyenko Urbanchich. That is an example of why there is need for public reassurance that views of that sort have not become indelibly rooted in the New South Wales Liberal Party. 
I remind the Chair that we are discussing the Budget that was produced by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on Tuesday of last week. One would never know from listening to the remarks of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  who preceded me in the debate, that that is what we are debating. He ranged in his remarks from the shale oil deposits, to the sunshine in his electorate of Kennedy, to a wild vituperation of the former Whitlam Government- anything but the Budget. I do not supppose that that is really amazing. 
The Minister for National Development is no doubt aware of the contents of the Green Paper on energy produced by his own Department. 

 Honourable members interjecting 

-Well, maybe he is not. Is he aware of the changes wrought to his Green Paper by other departments, particularly the Treasury and the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet? Did the Minister agree with the policies and attitudes put forward by those two departments? If so, why? If not, why not? 
-I direct a questionto the Minister for National Development. I also refer to his statement of 1 1 September. Is it a fact that the overwhelming majority of the 47 projects funded under the Commonwealth Decentralised Development Program are funded by loans to be repaid over a period of between five and 15 years? Can the Minister explain why only two of the first 38 projects, one of which is in the Minister's own electorate, attracted nonrepayable grants from the Government? 
-I ask the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs: Is it a fact that June labour force figures standardised by age give an unemployment rate of 7.7 per cent for the overseas-born work force compared with 5.6 per cent for the Australian-born work force? Why has the Government decided to boost the intake of unskilled migrant workers when already 88 unskilled manual workers are unemployed for every job vacancy and 24 semi-skilled workers are unemployed for every job vacancy? Is it therefore a fact that the majority of the increased unskilled migrant intake will join the dole queues? 
I would like to refer to the Budget of 1979. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman),  has regaled us with all sorts of classical allusions which were more relevant to the nineteenth century than to the twentieth century. 
-He is walking out. That is probably reasonable. In referring to the Budget of 1979, I would like to speak in short terms about this present Fraser Government. In the period of the Fraser Government's rule over this country- a short four years- it has revealed more objectionable features than any of its predecessors in living memory. In four short years it has managed to identify itself with meanness, small mindedness, pettiness and churlish inequality. This is a mean and demeaning change from what the Australian people expected and got under the Whitlam regime, which was a period of at least an attempt at some form of egalitarianism in Australia or an attempt to rectify the great imbalance that existed traditionally in Australia between the 'haves' and the 'have nots'. 
I refer the present regime to those of the postwar period. The Curtins and the Chifleys were men of great vision and leadership who commanded the respect of all the Australian community- not just those who supported them in the electoral sense but the total Australian community that supported them in their efforts to pull Australia through the war. They were strong, but they were kind and compassionate people. Even R. G. Menzies of recent memory, whilst he was a patrician, commanding man, also had the respect of the Australian people, whether they supported him or not. I know that his political fortunes fluctuated. There were times when his electoral support was fairly low, but he was always a man who commanded respect. Whitlam was the man who raised the vision of Australia. He raised people's expectations of what they could get from life. Whilst eventually he perished at the ballot box- that is something to be regretted by people who did not vote for him then but who would like another chance- at least historians will probably regard the period of his rule, from 1972 to 1975, as one of the Camelots of Australian history; as a period when things of an egalitarian nature did happen and when a quality was returned to people so that they could expect that they would get something like a fair share of the cake. 
But since the present regime has been in power we have seen a reversion to 20 or 30 years back in the world experience. The  National Times  described our present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm 
Fraser) a couple of weeks back as the man of the feudal kingdom of Nareen and as a demeaning mean man. I think that that has been reflected in the miserable policies that his Government has introduced in its four years of power. Let me revert to the Budget of 1978. 1 remind the House and anybody who happens to be listening of the things that happened in that Budget. Taxes were put on blind people, on paper boys and on handicapped people. So, we had the ugly situation where two or three hundred people sat in wheel chairs in the rain out in front of Parliament House and demonstrated at the fact that a tax had been put on the meagre amounts that these people were allowed to earn in their sheltered workshops. This has been almost the pattern of existence of this Government. The Budget we are debating now is an extension of that mean spirited, petty attitude towards the Australian people. 
The Government is trumpeting loud about its taxation cuts, but fortunately the Australian people realise that the taxation cuts which were promised two years ago but which have just appeared were paid out of the pockets of motorists. The $3.5 billion that has been plucked from the pockets of everybody who buys a tank of petrol in order to drive his car has paid for those tax cuts. But, more importantly, the basic failure of this Budget and of this Government has been the failure to inject into the Australian people any confidence in the future of their country. I know that a lack of confidence is an academic, almost ethereal thing, but it certainly permeates right through the ethos of the Australian people and their thinking, to the extent that people now have lost confidence in their ability to retain their jobs. It is reflected in all sorts of ways, but particularly in the large amounts of money that are deposited in savings banks. The savings banks are awash with money. People are terrified to spend anything for fear that they are going to lose their jobs next week. They are putting money away for the rainy day. I think that the rainy day might turn out to be a flood. That is the fear of the Australian people. 
This Government is obsessed with the deficit- as it always has been- and that is one of the reasons that the Australian people have lost confidence in the future of their country. The funny thing is that in two years of the Fraser Government's rule the deficit that it tells us it has reduced exceeded three years of the much maligned deficits that occurred under the Labor Party. In Australia there is a mistaken belief that low deficits mean a low inflation rate. I would like to speak for a few moments on that myth. The myth that the Budget cut taxes did not last even 24 hours; but the almost equally fallacious assertion that it is anti-inflationary unfortunately is still widely accepted. Over the last five years Australians have been indoctrinated to believe that the Budget deficit is the prime determinant of inflation. 
This year's estimated deficit, if it is like most estimated deficits of recent memory, will be pretty rubbery too. The estimated deficit is $2,193m, which is $l,285m down on the figure for 1978-79. Ipso facto, the gullible have concluded that the Budget is anti-inflationary. A less superficial appraisal would show that the deficit is lower because higher fuel taxes will add an extra billion-odd dollars to revenue, which in turn will add 1.5 per cent directly to the consumer price index by December, and more next year. As that feeds into wages and other producer costs, the direct increase will multiply. In fact, the lower deficit, given its origin, is the cause of higher, not lower, inflation. The Government's own admission that inflation will rise from 8.2 per cent to above 10 per cent does not deter it from asserting that the Budget is antiinflationary. Will we soon be told that the way to stop inflation is to put prices up? This myth has been repeated by the Press, and it is a myth of which the Australian people should be aware. The myth that a lower deficit means lower inflation is exactly that- a myth. 
This lack of confidence is reflected in lots of ways. I mentioned the fact that it is reflected in higher deposits in savings banks. In Sydney in the last few months there has been a fairly frightening episode which is a manifestation of this lack of confidence. It has been reflected in this way: Over the last few years in Sydney there has been a reasonable growth industry in the form of discount stores where ordinary working people can go and buy their durable commodities- their white goods, televisions, fridges, et cetera- at a much lower price than that in the retail stores. People have always been able to use the tax refund that they got at the end of June for that purpose. Recently, three of the leading discount stores in Sydney- Sydney Wide Stores Pty Ltd, Col Buchan Discounts Pty Ltd and Best and Less Pty Ltd- have all passed into receivership of one type or another. 
I think that this fairly reflects the lack of confidence which is then reflected in the lack of consumer spending. These stores have not passed into receivership because of bad trading; that is nowhere near the fact. In fact they have always been very good traders. The reason is merely a lack of cash flow in that people are not going out and spending their money. They are banking it because they are terrified of losing their jobs and they are terrified of what the next year will bring. It is interesting to see the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  in the House. Of all the Ministers I think that probably these two are held in the highest esteem by honourable members on this side of the House. That is because of their ability, which overshadows that of the pygmies with whom they deal. But, then again, I suppose that the old adage holds true, namely, that in the valley of the blind the one-eyed man is king. I suppose that it does not really give them such a great rap to say that they are better than their fellows. Let me refer again to the discount stores and their lack of profitability. The fact that they have gone into receivership is a reflection of lots of things, not the least of which is the Government's broken tax promises. The people of Australia have been promised tax cuts. These tax cuts have been a long time in coming. They have appeared eventually, at the cost of increased petrol prices. This meant that at the end of June this year people did not get their normal tax cuts and as a result they did not go out and spend. 
Also the Government's policy of confrontation with the unions has produced a continuous strike situation. Only recently we had four very serious strikes in Australia and the Government trumpeted loud and strong to the effect that the working people were bringing down the country with their repeated attempts to go on strike. The simple fact is that in each of those four strikesthe one in the Pilbara, the Telecom strike, the oil strike in Sydney, and the strike in Melbournethe industry concerned eludes me for the moment- the men have gone back to work and the court has made a judgment which has pointed up the fact that the strikes were mainly exacerbated by the attempts of the Government and the employers in every instance to perpetuate the strikes with their confrontation attitude. The simple truth is that these strikes were merely an example of the working people of Australia trying to catch up with the cost of living and make up for the fact that this Government, since it has been in power, has opposed the wage indexation that it claims to support. At every national wage case hearing it has gone before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and opposed the attempts of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and individual unions to get wage parity. This has led to the situation where decent and responsible Australian men and women have been forced to go on strike to try to get some sort of wage parity. 
This continuing wage strike and the way it has been painted by the slanted Press has led to a lessening of confidence in the Australian people. The Government 's apparent unconcern with the unemployment situation and its one-eyed policy of fighting inflation without taking into account world trends adds to this lack of confidence in people's ability to think that the country will survive. I think that that is the sad part of this Government's policies. They have led people to think that that is the case. It appears to me that a country as rich as Australia should not be suffering these multiple ills of despair, unemployment and depression. This should be the richest country in the world, given our benefits of stable climate, resources and a democracy that has been stable since Federation, since the start of Australia, largely by the efforts of the working class. With all these things to support us there is no reason why we should have inequality, poverty, depression and despair. I think that supporters of this Government should hang their heads in shame to think that that is the case. 
-As time is running short I will ignore the comments of the angry ant from St George who talks about the Labor Government. It is a pity that his Government does not have the compassion, vision and understanding of the Whitlam Government. It never will have. 
I now refer to the overseas borrowings of this Government. When the Labor Government left office in 1975 the national debt stood at approximately $75 per head for every man, woman and child in Australia. Since then this Government has borrowed almost $5,000m from overseas bankers for no other reason than to finance its deficits and prop up the Australian dollar. The average debt per head of population in Australia these days is almost $400. It was $75 in 1 975. It is almost $400 in 1979. Well may Government supporters hang their heads in shame. Of course they should. The Australian people realise that this Government has put them in hock. It has put the Australian economy in hock to overseas borrowings to the extent of almost $5,000m. More significantly, for the first time in recent history our overseas borrowings almost double our overseas reserves. What a nice situation for the Australian people to find themselves in. At the end of four years rule by the people who claim to be the great economic managers this country is in hock. 
That is what has happened. That has been the result of four years of their so-called 'management '. The Government has sold out Australia to overseas financiers. This Budget should be the ultimate of the Government's shame. 
The apotheosis of this Government will be that it has left the country bankrupt. I see that the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  has entered the chamber. If only he were still the Treasurer perhaps we would see some improvement. He was desperately bad but he was a lot better than the present one. This Budget is something to be deplored by the Australian people. Please God that in another 15 months there will be a return to the Treasury benches of the real managers of the economy, the Labor Party. 
-Is the Minister for Housing and Construction aware that, according to the Real Estate Institute of Australia, in June 1979 the most common rent level for a twobedroom, unfurnished house in Sydney or Melbourne was $60 a week? Does the Minister acknowledge that an average wage earner with a dependent spouse and child and with a weekly take home pay of $150 would pay 40 per cent of that income on housing? What hope can the Minister give to a family paying such high rentals and trying to save to buy a house? 
-On 13 September the flamboyant honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  in the adjournment debate delivered a quite unreasonable, dishonest and sordid attack on a trade union - 
-My regard for the value, the integrity and the importance of local government is not necessarily borne out of my experiences as a Labor alderman currently sitting on the Parramatta City Council; rather is my high estimation of this tier of government a measure of my evaluation of the important services delivered by local government and their direct effect on the lives of the ratepayers. I feel that this is a realistic evaluation of the pertinent facts about all city, municipal and shire councils. Local government is unquestionably the most direct, the most personal implementation of the system of parliamentary control under which we in Australia live. My estimation of the efficacy of this, the third tier of government, has fortunately been shared not only by the present Labor Opposition but even more importantly, in a contemporary sense by the Whitlam Labor Government of pleasant recent memory. 
In reflecting on the recent past, I find a great deal of satisfaction in examining the role of the past Labor Administration in the area of local government and great comfort in recognising the firm support which my party, as a government, supplied to this most important area of government activity. Let me proudly cite a number of major achievements in support of local government which emanated from the Whitlam Government, a most concerned and sensitive administration. In 1973, direct financial support was provided for local government in the national Budget as part of a firm, coherent and expanding program. It was a major breakthrough in major government financing which no national government, not even the present insensitive regime, could ever possibly turn back. 
There were other initiatives and, as an alderman, I am sure that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  will allow me the indulgence of mentioning some of them as they surely establish the Labor Party's credentials as a firm supporter of the role and function of the third tier of government. We sought to have local government representation on the Loan Council. But history will show that we were frustrated by some of the then Premiers. As a government, we amended the Commonwealt Grants Commission Act to provide local government with the right to approach the Commission directly for equalisation grants in the same manner as had been open to the less wealthy States since 1933. There were also the benefits of the area improvements programs, the national sewerage scheme and the eligibility of urban local works for Australian Government financial assistance. Money was also provided for recreational needs and tourism as well as for pre-school and child care services. We subsequently sought the co-operation of local government in developing an employment creation program- the redoubtable Regional Employment Development Scheme of which the present Labor shadow spokesman in this area, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  spoke quite proudly in his speech a few moments ago. 
The honourable member cited a few of the things that his Department was responsible for in the western suburbs of Sydney where of course I am a resident. He gloated- I think that would be the word to use- and gloated quite justifiably of the efforts which were made in this way to make the area what he described as a more gentle area in the western part of Sydney- an area which formerly was deprived and sparsely covered with trees. The honourable member for Reid mentioned the central gardens in Merrylands which happens to be on the border of my electorate. It is in the electorate of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  but I like to think that I have a share in it. I visited it last Saturday for a family festival and what a delight it is to be able to go to an area like this which was once a brick pit and which is now a veritable Garden of Eden where people can go in their thousands on the weekend to enjoy the pleasures of the open air, the trees, the gardens, the waterfalls, the ponds and the wildlife that were never there before the advent of a sensitive administration in the Federal sense that was prepared to consider local government as a most important partner in the servicing of people as far as government is concerned. I pay credit to the then Minister for Urban and Regional Development, the honourable member for Reid, for his great efforts in that regard. In that regard, and in lots of others, we recognise by direct contact with local government the crucial role that local government contributes not only in its established spheres of administration but also in influencing the performance of the national economy. As you would remember,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the RED Scheme not only provided these facilities for people to have a more enjoyable lifestyle, but also provided some necessary employment opportunities when they were most wanted. 
The present Government has trumpeted loud and long about the alleged merits of its much heralded new federalism. This policy, unveiled by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  three years ago, was announced as the centrepiece of this Administration's philosophical approach to government. It was alleged to signal a new deal in financial security for local government. The new federalism is not a new deal for anyone other than the Prime Minister, who is determined to shift the odium for his budgetary paring to somebody else. Certainly local government has gained nothing under new federalism. Rather it has lost a great deal. 
For almost 40 years since uniform taxation was introduced the States have been guaranteed a steady and increasing volume of general revenue. The Prime Minister has effectively ended that system. In its place has been imposed a system which does not guarantee a specific income but which is dependent entirely on the level of Commonwealth income tax receipts. Everybody in the community would be aware of this Government's obsession with indirect taxation, which is, of course, regressive in its nature. Because of the Government's policies income tax as a proportion of government revenue is a diminishing factor. If local government finance is tied to income tax receipts it also has to be a diminishing factor. We all know that income tax is a fluctuating amount. The States' position is eroded if the relative importance of income tax is reduced, as it has been, and if that of indirect tax is increased. The relevance for local government in the new federalism context is that less funds for States means in turn less funds from the States to local authorities. 
Using the 1975-76 Budget as the base year and working on allocations to local government as a proportion of the previous year's income tax receipts, in every succeeding year under this Government local government has suffered very badly. Under the Whitlam Government local authorities fared very well. As a result of funds made available under the Regional Employment Development Scheme, which both generated jobs and supported the private sector, how much better off we were, How much we could use a healthy dose of both these things at present- that is an employment producing scheme and an increase in funds to local government. The Fraser Government at the time of the 1977 election made a solemn pledge to increase local government funding to a 2 per cent share of personal income tax collections in the life of the Parliament. 
This year's Budget increases that share to 1.75 per cent. This is allowed for in the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Amendment Bill, which we are debating at the moment. Last year's share was 1.52 per cent. This year it will be 1.75 per cent. What a big deal! What about the Government's election promise of 2 per cent? 
A table produced by the Parliamentary Library puts the lie to this Government's claim of its largesse to local government. The table shows, among other interesting facts, that under the Labor Administration in 1975-76 the actual payments to local government as a proportion of personal income tax collections stood at 2.44 per cent when income tax was relatively a higher percentage of total government revenue than it is at the moment. Local government's share of income tax collections was 2.44 per cent in 1 975-76 compared with a projected amount of 1.75 per cent this year. Under the Fraser Government in 1976-77 the proportion shrank to 1.63 per cent. In 1977-78 it shrank again to 1.61 per cent. In 1978-79 it shrank again to 1.56 per cent. This year, so the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  proudly boasts local government will get 1.75 per cent of income tax collections. What a splendid record of deceit and humbug! 
What a splendid record of deceit and sham! Are those words more acceptable,  Mr Deputy  Speaker? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I congratulate you on your appointment as  Deputy Speaker.  The Opposition opposes the Bill and applauds the cynicism of the Government in reneging on its election promises. We on this side of the House hardly need to say anything about the Government's miserable attitude in further reducing the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy. One of the Government parties' own members has said it all. The honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite),  in speaking to a similar Bill on 14 September last year, said: 
I must say that it is with some reluctance that I rise to speak on the Nitrogenous Fertiliser Subsidy Amendment Bill. 
He went on to say: 
This is a measure which, in itself, I cannot in my own heart support individually. 
If he said that in 1978 I wonder how he is feeling in 1979 when the subsidy has been reduced by another $20. As he is beholding to an electorate of sugar farmers, one of the biggest users of nitrogenous fertilisers, I am not surprised at his statements last year. It seems strange to me that a National Country Party representative could plead ignorance as an excuse on a subject which is so dear to the hearts of farmers in this country, but I shall refresh his memory as to what the situation is. The just retired Minister for Primary Industry, when in Opposition, said most emphatically about the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy: 
I can give an unqualified assurance on behalf of the National Country Party, that in government with the Liberal Party we will restore the bounties on superphosphate and ensure that the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty continues. 
Of course, the Government says one thing at election time and another afterwards, when it has the election nicely in the background and is not looking to face the people again for a good while. But there is a sinister thread running through the continuing story of the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy story. 
-I will tell the honourable member about the superphosphate bounty later. Let us deal with what the Government is doing to the farmers. We are concerned about that at the moment. This sinister story started in 1975 when the coalition parties in opposition refuted the judgment handed down in September 1975 by the Industries Assistance Commission. It called for a phasing out of the bounty over a three-year period. The recommendation was to reduce the subsidy from the existing $78.74 per tonne to $60 per tonne during 1976, to $40 during 1977 and to $20 in 1978, with the subsidy to be cut off completely by 31 December 1 978. But, prior to the 1 975 election, strange to relate, when the coalition parties were making their unholy grab for office, they promised the world to the farmer. Never mind the research and the analysis that had gone into the IAC report. All they were worried about was getting the farmer's vote. They promised to maintain the subsidy if only the farmers would vote for them. If the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  is worried, I will repeat ad nauseam the words of the then Shadow Minister for Primary Industry. I want people to remember them because they give the clue to the cynicism of this Government. He said: 
I can give an unqualified assurance . . . that we will ensure that the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty continues. 
Let us look at what has happened to that bounty since those heady days. Shortly after coming to office- surprise, surprise- the Government honoured an election promise. It passed legislation in March 1976 to maintain the bounty at the existing rate of $78.74 per tonne. I am sure some of the people listening to this broadcast will have fallen off their chairs by now, having learned that the Government did honour a promise. But, by the time the first Lynch Budget came up in that year, the bounty and the promise were feeling the weight of impending doom. With the election safely behind him and the future his, the farmers' friend, the squatter of Nareen, suffered a convenient lapse of memorysomething that we have come to find is quite a repetitive process with him. Notwithstanding his very recent election promise, he cut back the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. Legislation was passed late in 1976 to reduce the subsidy to farmers who depended heavily on that assistance. So, in 1977 the subsidy was cut to $60 a tonne. 
But the story does not stop there. In fact, the plot thickens. When the legislation came up for amendment in September of 1977, instead of continuing with the phasing out- which had seemed such a good idea the September beforeand instead of continuing with the IAC recommendation and lowering the subsidy to $40 a tonne, the Minister introduced a Bill to continue the existing arrangements; that is, a Bill maintaining the $60 assistance per tonne. Was it just coincidental that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was hatching another election a month or two later, or is that too cynical a suggestion for even the honourable member for Herbert? Anyway, good luck to the farmer.  His  subsidy was saved by the Government's need to be loved at election time. So, during 1977 the Government had to stick to its guns and pay $60 per tonne subsidy. But now this devious saga has arrived at the present. In September last year the Nitrogenous Fertiliser Bill again raised its head. There was no election in sight, so we know what happened and we know why. The Government was once again preparing to ignore its promises and cut back on the bounty. It is like a third rate detective novel. One gets no marks for knowing that the butler did it it is so obvious all through the story. 
A pattern of deception has been set up. Promise the farmer anything he wants at election time and, when that is out of the way, sock it to him. It is a pattern of deception which is occurring in all areas of government and this is only one instance of the way in which the Government is prepared to flout its mandate. 
-My word I have. I made a living in the bush for 27 years. In October 1977- just prior to the 1977 elections- when the Nitrogenous Fertiliser Subsidy Bill of that year was being debated, and at a time when the Government was very keen to be loved and therefore the subsidy was being maintained in toto, the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  said: 
This Bill is proof positive that we are not prepared to have rural Australia driven into subjection- the subjection of poverty through being made the one section of the Australian community being denied some assistance in alleviating a suffocating cost burden and a pressure from society which demands all and wants to give little or nothing in return. 
What wonderful, loquacious, eloquent words from the honourable member for Darling Downs. It is a pity that he was not here to see what followed. That speech was made in support of the Government's decision to continue the subsidy at the existing $60 per tonne. That was a mere two years ago. The justification then was the parlous state of the rural economy. If it has changed for the better since then, I would like to know where. It has certainly changed for the worse by all indicators. If one were to listen to the National Country Party in this House asking for subsidies on this, that, and the other, one would be entitled to believe that it is in a dreadful state. So, if the Government felt justified in going counter to the IAC then, why does it turn about face now when things are worse? Again, we get back to my point about the cynical abuse of the democratic process, of promising something to win an election and then conveniently discovering that circumstances will not allow its implementation 'at this point of time', to use one of the phrases the Prime Minister uses so cynically and so often. 
The cost burden which the honourable member for Darling Downs lamented is still with rural Australia. The horror Budgets of recent memory have seen to that. 
-With all the other burdens inherent in the Budget, the farmer will be looking at higher prices for nitrogenous fertiliser - 

 Mr Wallis- Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to take a point of order. Would you mind doing something about the honourable members who are interjecting? I am trying to hear what the honourable member for Parramatta is saying. 
-Is the Minister for Industrial Relations aware that on 1 1 October members of his staff distributed to members of the Parliamentary Press Gallery copies of  Mr Justice  Staples' 13-page correspondence to him on the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill? Did the Minister himself order that distribution to any member of the Press or to anyone else outside his office? If so, why? If he did not issue instructions to that effect, on what basis did his staff circulate the Staples letter? In view of the precedent established with the dissemination of the Staples letter, will the Minister now supply the Parliament and the media with the telexed advice from the 25 commissioners? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That, in the interest of preserving Australia's excellent relations with Japan, this House urges the Government to delay the fishing agreement between Japan and the Commonwealth of Australia to enable proper consultations to be held by the Australian Government with Australian interests opposed to heavy long line fishing in the Australian Fishing Zone. 
Well may the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  be judged by the people of Cootamundra; come the next election, he no doubt will be. When I made that speech last Wednesday night, I sincerely believed every word that I said, and I still do. I do not think that the honourable member for Hume has done anything to deny the facts as I placed them before the House. The simple truth is that 350 people were working at Conkey and Sons Ltd at the time of the dispute and I have no doubt at all that Metro Meat Ltd did engineer the strike in order to convert people who, for a generation, have traditionally been working under a State award, with all its advantages, to a federal award which would suit Metro Meat Ltd. Eventually Justice Mary Gaudron ruled against the company and in time enabled those men to go back to work after all that time under all the conditions that they had enjoyed before that period. 

 Mr JOHN BROWNThey did. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for Hume will refrain from interjecting. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I have here a copy of Justice Mary Gaudron 's judgment and I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard, just  to prove the point. 
Leave granted. 
I thank the House. That document certainly proves the efficacy of my statement. The facts are that the honourable member for Hume sought to involve himself in a union dispute when he had no right to do so. I have here a cutting from a newspaper which proves the point that I am making. It is a letter which was written to the local newspaper and which, as I say, proves the point that I am making. It states:  a  Mr Charles  Smith-Watson, who is a director of Metro, and a  Mr Ron  Burdess from the Australian Meat and Allied Trades Association- 
Incidentally, that association is the association which covers the management of company meatworkers- went to see  Mr Fred  Hall, the secretary of the Federal Branch of the AMIEU, and stated the company does not condone any statements being made (or meetings called) by Stephen Lusher or any other political figures, because the dispute is between the union and Metro only and decisions that may come out of these meetings will have no bearing on the opening of the works. 
That comment has been confirmed by the general concern about this matter and is mentioned in this letter. In fact the efforts of the honourable member for Hume in involving himself in this dispute brought no credit to him at all. I think it is worth mentioning that the company involved which the honourable member for Hume sought to support has a very poor record as an employer in the meat industry. I would like to point out a few of the facts concerning it. At the handing down of Justice Mary Gaudron's decision, the men went back to work under a State award, which was the decision of Justice Gaudron. 
-But unfortunately the award was as written and not as worked before because the company repudiated conditions under which these men had worked under the Conkey and Sons Ltd management for a long time. One of the prime rules of unionism is being disturbed inasmuch as seniority is not being recognised. Men who had worked there for 20 years have gone back, starting from scratch because of this dispute started by the company. It appears to me that Metro has been spoiling for a fight all along. Its record as an employer around Australia is very poor. Its Geraldton works are closed; its Katanning works have been closed for 3 months; and its Peterborough and Noarlunga works in South Australia are working for only one or two days a week when other abattoirs are managing to work a full week. 
The sad part of this is that people in those little towns where these abattoirs are the main employer have no alternative form of employment. So men with families are working for one or two days a week to get something which is less than a subsistence wage. Because they work for one or two days a week, they are rendered ineligible for any sort of unemployment relief. If they were not legitimate, honest meat workers, they would be going on the dole and getting more money for doing nothing. But they do not do so; they persist in trying to exist in an industry in which they have existed for many years. This situation that these men find themselves in is not to the company's credit. 
I am amazed that the honourable member for Hume has the gall to come in here tonight to try to answer these charges. The simple facts are that he arranged a meeting in Cootamundra of something like SO members out of 350 who were on strike, got them to achieve a decision and then sent telegrams to the court, expecting that the court would take some notice of the decision. Justice Gaudron knocked back those telegrams, just as I refute the evidence given here tonight by the honourable member for Hume. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to raise a matter of privilege. Yesterday in this House I asked a question of the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  I was given an answer. But my perusal of the  Hansard  today leads me to believe that the sense of that answer has been altered in the text of the  Hansard-  altered most dramatically, almost to produce a direct negative of the answer I was given. I seek your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  to establish whether a prima facie case of privilege exists by listening to the tape of the proceedings. 
-Does the Minister for Industrial Relations recall his statement on the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio program  PM  last night in relation to the Staples letter? I quote accurately and without amendment the Minister's words: 
My office checked with  PM  to ensure that the document had in fact become public before I did anything about it at all. 
In another part of the interview, he said: 
We checked with  PM  to find whether they had in fact got the letter and they had. 
Does the Minister stand by those statements in this Parliament today? 

 -Mr Speaker, I would like your indulgence to say a few words on the matter, to make a very short statement. 
-I would like to thank you,  Mr Speaker,  for your prompt investigation of my complaint. In fairness, I think you would agree that that altered 'green' which you and I both saw led me to believe that an alteration had been made. I am quite satisfied that the reply of the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  was exactly in the terms as printed in  Hansard.  I would like to apologise to the Minister for any embarrassment I may have caused him. 
-My grievance today concerns the return to the public air waves of the ubiquitous John Laws. Attracted by a huge salary, he has come back to the radio in Sydney. I would have thought that this man, thoroughly disgraced over the St George Permanent Building Society rumour, may well have disappeared forever but he has come back and I daresay he will be using his stop button to destroy the arguments of innocent people who ring into his talk-back session with vituperation, denigration and ridicule. 
I really want to grieve about his recently much-trumpeted petition. A significant amount of publicity was given to the petition condemning strikes and strikers, which was widely circulated in the community by this erstwhile disc jockey. This petition raised a number of questions which reflected upon the credibility of its author. To the best of my knowledge, these questions, particularly those concerning the financing of  Mr Laws'  petition, are still to be answered. The issue of  Mr Laws'  credibility aside, the petition can only be regarded in a highly ironic light. It appears that people have very short memories indeed. I wonder how many of those who signed that petition thought to question the ethics of John Laws' much publicised support for truck drivers who brought the country to a virtual standstill through their strike action earlier this year? These truck drivers, it might be stressed, were suffering the consequences of their own staunch refusal to join a trade union, a refusal which brought about their oppression at the hands of big contractors. In recent months we have witnessed also the unusual occurrence of groups such as farmers taking industrial action by withdrawing their stock from the market in protest at the Government's trebling of the stock levy.  Mr Laws,  I might note, was noticeably silent in his opposition to this strike. 
It is fairly obvious that for people like  Mr Laws  a dual set of standards prevails. They think that industrial action is justified if it is taken by the representatives of private enterprise. If, on the other hand, a strike is called by members of a trade union, it is immediately labelled as unwarranted and extreme. Had  Mr Laws  really looked at the situation behind the large number of strikes which occurred in July, he would have realised that the real cause of the unrest was frustration with the compression of living standards which had been forced on average Australians by the economic policies of this Government. The Telecom dispute, one of the disputes which no doubt prompted the petition, exemplifies this point. Members of the Australian Telecommunications Employees Association sought their first general increase since 1974. The need for this increase was brought about by the Government's policy of encouraging only partial indexation of wages, despite its much vaunted protests about supporting wage indexation. This government's partial indexation system resulted in a loss of $ 1 5 a week for technicians and $40 a week for grade 3 technical officers. It might be fair to say that during the same period Telecom Australia has become one of the most profitable business operations in Australia. 
The four main strikes which occurred at about the time of this petition were in fact solved in favour of the employees and in every case the court made statements which were critical of the employers' actions in these strikes and of their behaviour towards employees. This example demonstrates another inconsistency in  Mr Laws'  judgment. While actively opposing the wage demands of workers such as those employed by Telecom,  Mr Laws  did not see fit to raise any opposition at all to the 12.9 per cent rise that was recently given to the overpaid doctors in Australia.  Mr Laws,  until his recent resignation, was one of the highest paid announcers in Sydney radio and, in fact, in Australian radio. He, of all people, has not the right to sit in judgment upon the wage claims of many of the less extravagantly paid individuals who are trying to eke out an existence for themselves and their families. It would be interesting to know what  Mr Laws  considers to be an adequate minimum income for a worker with dependants, and whether he himself could adequately live on the wages of many of those he condemned in his position. Quite obviously,  Mr Laws  was exploiting the genuine concern of a large number of workers at the erosion of their living standards to boost his own ego and perhaps his ratings. 
I refer to the truckies' strike. I really think that the truckies' strike should have been a total anathema to someone with John Laws' quaint, if very dangerous, right-wing views regarding unionism, if only he had had the wit to investigate the underlying rationale of this so-called strike. Truckies are a group of hard working Australians who have for some misguided reason, consistently eschewed unionism. They had a fixation with the alleged benefits and the alleged qualities of justice associated with the free enterprise system and the so-called free market forces. Encouraged by this misunderstanding of the free enterprise system and deluded by the belief that as individuals- I might say they are a rugged group of individuals- they could survive in the savage world of big business, they plunged headlong into that business world with large investment in trucks and cartage contracts. How cruelly they learned the fact of life. The alleged benefactors of the free market system had their guts for gaiters. Tied up to harsh and totally unprofitable contracts with the large trucking companies, they were rapidly going broke. 
The flamboyant  Mr Laws,  ever conscious of a headline and anxious to promote his selfadopted role as a folk hero charged to the rescue of the beleaguered truckies- the white knight of the air waves. Little did Laws realise that he was helping to highlight the defencelessness of individuals who try to buck the system. He became the truckies hero, appealing to the New South Wales Labor Government to rescue them from the big baddies, the bosses whom they had trusted as the guardians of the free enterprise system. Suddenly the dreaded spectre of the much despised unionism, the act of banding together to survive the system and to eke out a fair return on their investment became the panacea to save them from their plight. The hapless  Mr Laws,  without even realising what he was doing, was in fact emphasising the absolute necessity for people like the truckies and every other group of workers to be united in a union if ever they were to survive in the jungle of big business. They have no hope of surviving the extreme forces of the free enterprise system if they are not unionised and united and, most importantly, do not have the hard-won right, as the truckies did not, to withdraw their labour as their only weapon against harsh oppressive employers. I hasten to add that not all employers are in this category. 
I would like, in the concluding moments of my speech, to refer to an opinion of the Laws petition which appeared in the  New Journalist,  which is the magazine which the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  would know about. As  Mr Laws  considers himself a journalist, I suppose that this is a judgment of his peers. They talk about it in this light. The article stated: 
For Laws it was undoubtedly a ratings booster and an episode that would leave a lasting Quixotic impression in the minds of his faithful while he was off raising deer, driving his collection of expensive cars, or popping up at the right restaurants and first nights. 
For Fraser, beset by an increasingly cheeky opposition and falling personal popularity it was all grist for the union bashing mill. 
The petition was no more than a grand con-job, which like most other jingoistic  manipulations,  said nothing, achieved less and wasted a lot of paper in the process. 
Finally, they talk about the petition in these words:   . . we . . . still hope the petition will be treated in parliament with as much respect as other signed public expressions, dealing with everything from the murder of five journalists in Timor to abortion reform- mechanically tabled and forgotten just as quickly. 
If the petition turns out to be another cudgel in Fraser 's anti-union arsenal we might also reflect . . about the abuse of privilege, and the power to sway people by tugging at nothing more than their emotions and their inconveniences. 
I would hope that now that  Mr Laws  has returned to Sydney, attracted no doubt by a huge salary, he might adopt a more responsible attitude to the privilege that he is given by the people of Australia to use the public air waves by putting his time to better use than bashing unionists. The union people of Australia, the workers of Australia, are the backbone of this nation. I think that people like Laws have a responsibility to treat them as responsible, decent citizens and not merely as people to be ridiculed at his whim. 
While we are dealing with the Estimates committees I would like to say a few words about the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry. Let me state a small truism to begin with: Australians are a race of meat eaters. I do not think many people would deny that. I would say to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  who is sitting at the table, that from the look of the jowl he developed on his recent overseas tour, he has been having more than his fair share of meat pies. I do not think anybody would deny that a steak or a meat pie is as Australian as the kangaroo or Don Bradman. As somebody who managed to exist in the meat industry for a long time, I am rather 
E leased that we are meat eaters. Of course, we ave had the odd vegeterian in Australia. I well remember when Murray Rose was winning gold medals at the Olympic Games for swimming and loudly telling everybody that he was feeding himself on sunflower seeds and seaweed. In the meat industry we were glad when he emigrated to America. We were rather pleased to see the end of him. He was far too good an advertisement for the non-meat eaters. I think it is fair to say that Australians are meat eaters. In fact, they are amongst the biggest meat eaters in the world, if one looks at the statistics. 
I am disturbed by the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry because my reading of them indicates that the Government is putting a separate tax on meat eaters. I know that we have turned every petrol pump into a tax agency- we accept that- but when the Government starts attacking the basic traditions of Australians' culinary desires, when it starts attacking the meat eaters, it has gone beyond the pale. The reason I suggest that that is the case is very simply proved if one looks at the estimates for Primary Industry. In this Budget the Government has seen fit to treble the levy on the slaughter of cattle. I will not argue with the philosophical point that the Government puts forward about transferring the levy on cattle slaughtered from the producer to the owner of the stock at the point of slaughter. That is a fait accompli now and I will not argue the merits or demerits of it. The Australian Labor Party put its view quite strongly when the change was mooted. We felt that it was immoral to do that and that the producer, who at the moment is receiving enormous money for his cattle- that is fair enough- should be paying the levy. However, the Government having decided to alter the place in the slaughter chain where it collects the money, then decided to treble it. The effect of that has been rather marked for people who eat meat. 
I shall quote a few figures. This year the Government will raise $16,250,000 from a charge associated with the inspection of meat for export. That involves not only export meat but also meat which happened to be killed in an export abattoir and which comes on to the local market. Last year the expenditure in this area was nothing, but the income was $16,250,000. The Government raises another levy for the eradication of disease. Last year the expenditure in this area was $9,700,000; this year the estimated revenue is $22,960,000. Another levy is raised for research and marketing. Last year the expenditure was $7m; this year the revenue raised will be $10,686,000. In total, the estimated revenue is $49,896,000 as against last year's expenditure of $16,754,000. That is just a little excess of $33m 
The people of Australia, those inveterate meat eaters, the people who keep the farmer producing cattle, the people who follow the Australian tradition of eating meat pies and steak and eggs, are being taxed to the tune of $3 3 m for the pleasure of being meat eaters. I find that rather exceptional. The simple fact is that the Government is presently undertaking a promotion to get people to eat meat. We have all seen the advertisements on television that the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation has undertaken, and I applaud them. The 'Feed the Man Meat' and Samson O'Brien, Your Friendly Local Butcher' advertisements are some of the best on television. But why spend that sort of money? 
-The honourable member for Robertson is in no position to speak about people with excessive cholesteral levels, looking at his ample girth. Perhaps he is a good advertisement for meat pies. It is pointless to spend a couple of million dollars on a promotion campaign to encourage people to eat meat if on the other hand the Government is to impose a tax on meat eaters to the extent of $33m. That seems to me to be a false sense of economics, but that is not unusual for this Government. I suggest that it is fair enough to raise $22m for the eradication of diseases if the Government intends to spend that sort of money. Last year it spent $9m in this area. 
We all know, and I think we are pleased to recognise, that disease in cattle is a rather diminishing factor in the Australian agricultural scene. I am pleased to recognise that but if the campaign for the eradication of disease in cattle is progressively costing less because of the effectiveness of the program that has been undertaken, why is it necessary to raise more money- in fact another $ 13m in this area this year- if it is not going to be spent? It simply occurs to me that this is another tax by stealth, a tax imposed on the meat eaters of Australia who basically comprise the whole of the population. I question the validity of the Government's philosophy in on the one hand spending money to encourage people to eat meat and on the other hand taxing them for doing just that. To me that seems to be a rather peculiar way of organising the business. But more particularly, seeing that the Government has some fascination with animal diseases, I find it rather peculiar that the Government is so insensitive about the workers in the meat industry who are charged with the job of slaughtering animals that have been detected as disease carriers. The percentage of animals involved is very small. It is approximately one per cent of the total herd. The Government runs a series of tests on herds to ascertain which cattle may be infected with the main diseases to which cattle are susceptible- Q fever, brucellosis and leptospirosis. 
When these cattle are detected as having one of those diseases they are killed in an abattoir. The Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union has been trying for a long time to get the Federal Government to evolve a system whereby these cattle, once they are detected as carriers of a disease, are killed at the nearest abattoir to the point of detection. One reason the union wants that done is to avoid having to transfer the cattle long distances. If they are killed at the nearest export abattoir the men there are provided with clean clothing every day. It would appear to be a sensible process, as these diseases are not transferable from human to human but from beast to human, to ensure that the people slaughtering them have clean outfits every day to work in. This Government appears to be obsessed about controlling cattle diseases when one looks at the amount of money it is raising in order to fight diseases. One could imagine that if it is very much obsessed with the eradication of diseases it would do something to protect the people who are charged with the slaughtering of diseased animals. But the response from this Government to the process of enabling these cattle to be killed at the nearest export abattoir is rather sad. 
The Government's attitude is typified in the reply received by the union from the former Minister for Primary Industry, the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  who said: 'It is not possible, nor would it be reasonable, to demand co-operation from meat exporters and processors especially if they would suffer financial loss'. What a dreadful statement to make about something that can vitally affect the health of the people who are charged with slaughtering these animals. I would think that this Government, obsessed as it seems to be with the eradication of disease, would be equally responsible when it comes to protecting the health of the people who are charged with the responsibility of eliminating diseased cattle from the herd, but such is not the case. I ask the Treasurer, who is sitting at the table, to impress upon the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon)  the absolute necessity for these people to be protected. They are doing a job that is not very pleasant at the best of times. A job in a slaughterhouse is probably one of the most unpleasant that anybody could imagine. Slaughtering diseased cattle carries the possibility of workers contracting Q fever, brucellosis or leptospirosis, an inhuman and disastrous experience. One would think that the Government would adopt a more responsible attitude by listening to the arguments of the meat industry and of the union and insist that these cattle be killed at the nearest export works that are governed by the Department of Primary Industry inspectors because the men at these works are provided with clean protective clothing every day. That is the only way that these men can be protected. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
How many officers of the Department of Social Security in each occupational classification have been involved in the apprehension of persons illegally receiving unemployment benefits in Australia, during each year since 197S. 
What have been the (a) salaries; (b) administrative costs; (c) court costs and (d) other costs to the Department of Social Security for the apprehension of persons illegally receiving unemployment benefits in Australia during each of the same years. 
What was the total sum defrauded by persons illegally receiving unemployment benefits in Australia during these years. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 27 September 1979: 
1 ) Has any decision been made regarding the commencement date for the building of the proposed Commonwealth Government Centre in Parramatta. 
If not, has any decision been made regarding the future use of the site of the proposed Centre. 
Has any decision been made with regard to amending the design of the Centre or the number and type of facilities it is planned to incorporate; if so, what form have the amendments taken. 
The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  has revealed himself. I always felt that he would be a classic member of the flat earth society because I am sure that that is the measure of his Neanderthal thinking. He has had the gall tonight to start propounding the thoroughly discredited theory of a flat tax. I am not surprised. I have heard some of his other pronouncements on other subjects. I am astounded that an allegedly responsible member of parliament would come in here and suggest that we should revert to a flat tax system. Surely the system that is favoured by the party which I represent is equitable. It can be justified in every sense. It is a progressive from of tax under which people pay what they can afford to pay. They pay what is a fair assessment of their income in the form of taxation to the government. Surely the Government is not going to start seriously contemplating a flat tax system. The honourable member for Hume has totally revealed himself, and I am appalled. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, you, in your preparliamentary days, were an eminent tax inspector. I am sure that you would agree when I suggest that the only things wrong with the tax collection system in Australia at the moment are the inequity of the rate for those people at the top level- I also put that suggestion to the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson),  who is sitting at the table laughing- and the amount of tax that is evaded. I was pleased that at least the honourable member for Hume had the decency to suggest that somewhere between $ 1,000m and $2,000m will be evaded in the current financial year by people who use all the loopholes that are available to 'smart' accountants and 'smart' lawyers. I use the word 'smart' in the pejorative sense, in inverted commas, because surely it is a very loose assessment of 'smart' that people can be smart enough to outwit other people who do not have the same opportunities, and thus avail themselves of an inequitable share of the tax burdens. 
If only people in the total electorate were honest the tax system would work. I am pleased to represent a working class electorate. I am sure that the bulk of the people I represent pay a fair share to the Government's purse, to the nation's purse. 
-As the honourable member for Werriwa interjects, they have no choice. They do not have the 'skills' or the basic dishonesty to be paying less than they should. We should look at the higher classes of society in Australia, the establishment, the Gold Coast businessmen, with all due apologies to the Minister at the table, the doctors, the solicitors, the accountants and the wealthy farmers. Those people not only minimise their tax, they absolutely remove the possibility of their paying any. They are the guilty parties. They are the people who are evading the $2,000m in tax this year. They are the people who are making the people I represent in my electorate, the workers of Australia, pay an inequitable amount. A worker with a tribe of kids is battling to send them to a State or parochial school, battling to pay whatever school fees have to be paid to keep the system going. Workers are paying an inequitable share of the tax burden because other people are avoiding their responsibilities. The Government should be aiming at the people who avoid their responsibilities. There is nothing wrong with the tax system if basic honesty existed within the community. That is what this Government should be trying to do. 
There are some cosmetic measures in the Bills that we are discussing, the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 4) and related Bills, that might do something about curing some of these ills and stopping the proliferation of Curran schemes and other schemes set up by the smart lawyers and smart accountants to allow their clients to not pay their fair share of the tax burden. But the Bills do not go far enough. We on this side of the House suggest that these measures should be made retrospective. The Government, when it discovers an avoidance scheme in operation, should be able to go back to the operative date of commencement of the scheme, not 12 or 18 months later when people have evaded the tax. We suggest to the Minister at the table and to the Government that it should be injecting some form of retrospectivity into these laws. That is the policy that has been propounded by our shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who spoke prior to the honourable member for Hume. We want the Government to catch in the net the people who are not paying their fair share. That is our suggestion. 
Only a few weeks ago I attended the opening of a new clinical school at the Westmead Hospital in my electorate. I was privileged to hear perhaps the last major speech made by one of the most eminent and respected medical men in Australia,  Sir John  Lowenthal. He was then Professor of Medicine at Sydney University and  Chairman  of the Australian National Heart Foundation. Unfortunately, he died shortly afterwards. The basis of his speech to the young doctors entering that clinical school- I well remember the terms he used- was that they should get back to the practice of medicine and forget about the business of medicine. He alluded, in guarded terms, to the number of doctors who have brought disrepute to their profession by their entry into tax evasion schemes. I am not just singling out doctors, but given the fact that in the last week or two they have raised their fees by 23 per cent. I presume that people like me, the working class people, are easy prey for them. People feel that they are being unfairly treated in terms of the tax they pay as against the tax people in the high income level do not pay. I suggest to doctors that they get back to the practice of medicine and forget about the business of medicine. Doctors, even by conforming with reasonable standards of behaviour, could still be the highest earning people in this community. It is very common knowledge that an ordinary general practitioner is now grossing somewhere around $ 100,000 minimum a year, giving them a net return of $40,000 or $50,000. How could those people justifiably suggest in any terms that they should be paying less than their fair share of tax? So I suggest to the honourable member for Hume that he forget about flat rates of tax, the same as he should forget about his membership of the flat earth society. I am sure he is a very senior member of that society. 
Getting back to the legislation in question, the Income Tax (Rates) Amendment Bill, which is part of this parcel, seeks to declare the new rates of personal income tax payable by individuals and trustees which were announced in the 1979-80 Budget Speech and to provide for the future application of tax indexation. 
-You may go. I am sure your presence will not be needed and I am sure that the aggregate intelligence of the House will not be lowered by your absence, it will be increased. The Opposition opposes this Bill because although it removes the income tax surcharge of l.S per cent which was imposed by this Government for the 1978-79 taxation year, all it effectively does is to impose a 1.07 per cent surcharge for the 1979-80 financial year instead. This is just another one of the broken promises of this Government. If this Government is remembered for anything it will be for this wonderful litany of broken promises which were espoused by our esteemed Prime Minister  (Mr Malcom Fraser)  in his election speech of 1977. Those promises have been repudiated and dishonoured. They have been almost totally obliterated by succeeding actions. This surcharge is another example of the Government's failure to honour its promises. The Government promised to abolish the surcharge at the end of July this year. It failed to do so. If honourable members can cast their minds back a little further, the Government had the gall, in December 1977, to promise people tax cuts. It not only did not give them tax cuts, it in fact gave them a surcharge. It not only broke a promise, it made another one and broke it. 
The Opposition also opposes the Bill on the grounds of another of the Government's broken promises- its failure to introduce tax indexation for 1979-80. Earlier in its period of office the Government claimed that tax indexation was desirable to keep governments honest. I subscribe to that too. But its trail of broken promises, of which I have mentioned only two or three- there are many others- have proved to the people of Australia that it is a blatantly dishonest government. The Government cannot afford to introduce tax indexation because that would prevent it from implementing its characteristic policy of taxation by stealth. I will not go into taxation by stealth; I will leave that to later speakers. In effect the Government's refusal to implement tax indexation means that while inflation continues the proportion of income tax increases for everyone who pays tax, regardless of his income. This Bill provides that in future indexation can be implemented by an Act declaring that indexation is to apply for a particular year, but the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has given no hint as to when such an Act may be introduced. In fact he has given every indication that tax indexation will not be introduced at all. He spelt this out quite clearly because in his second reading speech he claimed that it was not possible to introduce tax indexation for the 1979-80 financial year because of Budgetary considerations. 
I foreshadow that in May next year the Treasurer will come in here with a sweetner because that is election year. History reveals that election years have funny effects on Treasurers. Something that was not at all possible in August 1979 may well be possible in May 1980. It may well be that people will remember, if the Government does introduce some form of tax indexation as an election sweetener, where the money came from. People may start thinking about every gallon of petrol that they have bought and how much they have paid for it. Then they will know where their tax indexation is coming from. I would like to know what these budgetary considerations were that precluded the Government from introducing its tax indexation. 
The Treasurer says that tax indexation will not be introduced because people do not understand it. This is surely an insult to the intelligence of the people of Australia. When we go to an election the people of Australia will certainly indicate their intelligence because if the present poll continues the Government will be sitting over on this side of the House and the real government of Australia- the party that represents the great bulk of the people of Australia- will be squatting over there whence it never should have left. The Treasurer also said that tax indexation would be introduced only if wage increases and inflation were low. However, as he himself has admitted, inflation is going to rise to 10 per cent next year as a result of his inflationary Budget. It would appear therefore that tax indexation indeed has been given the kiss of death. Talking about the kiss of death, I notice that the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  has entered the chamber. 
The Government claims that it is cutting taxation this year and it is true that pay-as-you-earn taxation deductions will be decreased, but taken over the year as a whole, the proportion of income paid in tax by all taxpayers will increase this year. Moreover, this increase is quite inequitable and, as is usual with this Government, the greatest tax burden will fall upon low income earners. For a party that claims it is a low tax party, I think the figures really make a joke of that claim. I just added a few figures together today that people could readily understand. They show that income tax paid by individuals in Australia in 1975-76 was $9,2 19m. Strange to relate, in the 1979 Budget, the estimate for taxation paid by individuals is $15, 128m, just a nice little increase of 66 per cent in taxation revenue from individuals in a slight matter of three years. Surely that would end forever the claim that this 
Government, sitting on the treasury bench, is a low tax party. 
The increase in taxation this financial year for single taxpayers in the lowest income bracket will be 64.6 per cent. By comparison, for those earning around $50,000- funnily enough, that is the amount paid to Ministers- the increase will be only 1 1.3 per cent. I wonder whether that is coincidence or a deliberate attempt. Could that possibly be considered progressive or regressive tax? I think the people of Australia will be able to make a judgment on that, because despite the fact that the Treasurer thinks that the people of Australia are not intelligent, believe me, they are. For a taxpayer with dependants, the increase is even more marked. Those earning $6,500 this year are paying an increase in taxes of 155.9 per cent whilst those on $54,500 will have their taxes increased by 1 1.6 per cent- a nice little 1 1.6 per cent over last year. In other words, the lower a person's income, the higher his percentage increase in taxation this year. 
Low income earners are the people least able to afford high rates of taxation, but under this Government they are supporting the wealthy. That surely shows the immorality of this Government. The rates of tax applicable for any financial year, in accordance with the Income Tax (Rates) Act, are imposed for that financial year by the annual Income Tax (Individuals) Act. That Act in this year imposes the personal income tax rates applicable to individuals and trustees for the 1979-80 financial year, and until the Parliament does otherwise, it provides for the following financial year and is complementary to the Bill we discussed earlier. 
I notice that two nuns from one of the local schools happen to be sitting in the House, and one of the better provisions in this Bill that I do approve of is that which allows tax deductible gifts of $2 or more to be made after 1 July 1979 to the Roman Catholic archdiocesan funds established exclusively for the purpose of providing religious instruction in government schools in Australia. 1 applaud that move. It is at least one of the better ones that the Government has made. It is a very minor one, but one of the better moves. 
One of the other Bills in this parcel that we are debating cognately is the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 5) 1979. This gives legislative effect to three Government decisions made in May and June of this year. These decisions are the denial of income tax deductions for paper losses created by tax avoidance schemes initiated in a year of income and, because of insufficiency of income in that year to absorb them, carried forward to later years. We do not deny that that is also a reasonable move, but as I expressed earlier, it does not go far enough to catch these people who are evading their taxes. The Opposition believes that these sorts of legislative changes should be made retrospective. 
The Bill also allows for the easing of some limits on deductions for income equalisation deposits- a little sop for the farmers. We do not deny them that opportunity. They are having a good year and we are pleased about that.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I know that you represent a rural electorate. We are very pleased that the farmers are having a good year. If they can be given some easing in their tax on an averaging basis we are quite happy with that. The Bill also introduces the changing of arrangements for the transition from the 40 per cent phase of the investment allowance to the 20 per cent phase. I am delighted about that because I do not think anybody would deny that the 40 per cent allowance in investment that was given to business has not done the job for which it was introduced. It was alleged to be a scheme to provide employment but I think that everybody- including the Government- believes that what it has done has been to allow businesses a large tax deduction to provide new machinery, largely of a labourreducing type, and largely imported. So it has really worked in reverse to the scheme it was supposed to implement. It has not provided employment by virtue of its implementation and, further, it has not provided employment because largely it was machinery bought from overseas, so the scheme has been a failure. At least the Government has had the decency to reduce the allowance to 20 per cent. 
The first of these decisions- the one implementing the deduction for paper lossesimplements action against those participating in certain tax avoidance schemes- the Curran-type scheme, the horrid scheme which people use to exploit others; trading stock schemes; prepayment schemes; and expenditure recoupment schemes. Paper losses generated in earlier years by tax avoidance schemes entered into before government remedial action against such schemes was initiated will not be allowed as income tax deductions either in the 1979-80 financial year or in subsequent years, and we are delighted with that. Tax avoidance schemes have for a long time now allowed certain people well versed in the taxation laws- they are the people I was talking about earlier, the smart lawyers, smart accountants, smart doctors- to cheat the 
Government of the taxation due to it. So successful have these schemes been that the number of people using them has increased markedly in recent years. 
In the 1975-76 financial year, 861 taxpayers were identified as participants in such schemes whilst by 1977-78, the known number- I stress the known number- had risen to 10,244. These schemes have been so prevalent that it is estimated that in the 1979-80 financial year the Government lost some $203 m of revenue to which it was entitled because of these schemes. That is a very minimal assessment of the figure. I think most people, and probably the officials sitting on the back seats, would believe that the figure is more likely to be in the range of $2,000m. 
-I would not use that term. The honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  has suggested that they are fiscal fiends, but I would not use that term. Although the loopholes in the taxation laws which allowed the schemes I mentioned earlier to operate have at last been closed, claims exceeding $ 1 ,600m have been made on the Australian Taxation Office for the deduction of paper losses from tax avoidance schemes carried out in 1977-78. Obviously the Opposition strongly opposes any form of tax avoidance system, not only because of the loss of revenue to the Government that such schemes entail, but also because it is intolerable that others, honest taxpayers in the community, should go on year after year paying taxes whilst unscrupulous people openly avoid paying tax. We therefore support any move to stamp out the operation of such schemes. To sum up, as I said when I started this little speech, the basic ingredient required in the community is honesty. The working classes of Australia have never yet been caught in a tax evasion scheme. Never does one find the names of butchers, bakers, candlestick makers, fitters and turners, school teachers or trade union officials in the lists of names of those evading tax- only the establishment. 
It is interesting to see National Country Party members in the chamber, particularly those representing the sugar seats, clutching at straws or, should I say clutching at canes, trying to justify their performance with regard to the sugar industry. Whilst I probably agree with the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  that sugar is not a third rate food and a first rate poison, I think that it possibly has a deleterious effect on the thatching of a person's pate. Perhaps the honourable member will be able to work that out. Nevertheless, that is another story. One of the reasons that members of the National Country Party are clutching at straws is that several things have been promoted by this Government which have been to the detriment of the sugar cane industry. 
I refer to an authoritative source, the  Chairman  of the Queensland Cane Growers Council,  Sir Joseph  McAvoy. Earlier in the year he was very critical of the Federal Government's policy towards rural industries such as the sugar industry. He blamed the Government's fuel pricing policies, its reduction of nitrogenous fertiliser subsidies and its support of an adverse exchange rate by massive external borrowings as being responsible for some of the difficulties that the sugar industry has been facing. The Government's policy on import parity fuel pricing had extremely adverse results in July and August this year when the sugar harvest was well under way. A severe shortage of diesel oil left most farmers in the Innisfail area with less than a week's supply of fuel. This caused severe disruptions to the harvest which were offset only by the release of some defence fuel supplies to farmers. It is not surprising that members of the National Country Party are a little nervous about what the sugar farmers might do to them come the next election. 
The Opposition is not opposing these Bills. The Sugar Agreement of July 1979 seeks approval for an agreement relating to the regulation of sugar and certain sugar products which has been made by a joint arrangement between the Federal and Queensland governments. The Bill renews the Agreement which expired on 30 June 1 979. This raises the question of what has filled the vacuum with regard to the control of the sugar industry in that period. Perhaps it has not had any control at all. Sugar agreements of one sort or another have existed for more than 50 years. This Agreement, however, is a departure from other agreements in that it establishes a formula for annual adjustment of the domestic price of refined sugar. As I said, the Opposition is not opposing the Bill but it holds reservations about some of the terms of the Bill. I think it is realistic when talking about the sugar industry to have regard not only for the cane farmers but also for the consumers of Australia. They are obviously the people who turn the sugar into cash for the growers. In only 10 of the last 52 years have Australian sugar cane growers and millers received a higher return for raw sugar sold by them on overseas markets than they have received from sales on the domestic market. In other words, Australian consumers have been subsidising sugar producers through the high domestic prices set by the Commonwealth Government in consultation with the Queensland Government for 42 of the last 52 years. That is a very significant fact. 
-I think that it is right. The honourable member will have to disprove it to me. When we are talking about the formula that has been set for the pricing of sugar we should look at the basis under which it was determined. The current domestic wholesale price is the first and an important ingredient in the new formula. Because of that the objectivity of the formula is challengeable from the outset. The higher the base price at which the first price increase is calculated, the larger is any price increase likely to be. Thus, it is not surprising that the majority decision of the Sugar Inquiry Committee favoured the 'by guess or by God' approach in determining that base price rather than by applying a formula by which the sugar industry would be bound for the period of the new Agreement. 
I do not have much time as unfortunately, the time for which we are allowed to speak in this debate has been cut back. However, I will say a few words about the consumers. Including the annual increase in the consumer price index as a component of the formula for determining the sugar price, regardless of the extent to which it is discounted, irrevocably ties future movements in the domestic sugar price to movements in domestic inflation. It is perhaps the least efficient method that could have been chosen to set a price for any food commodity. The resultant price increase merely feeds into the CPI and has the effect of pushing up the following year's increase in the rate of inflation a little higher than it might otherwise have been. A formula which achieves this effect could hardly be regarded as one which would be attractive to a government which claims that one of its major policy objectives is the lowering of Australia 's inflation rate. 
While both the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Government continue to be obsessed with a fear that import competition would be harmful to what they claim to be one of the world's most efficient sugar industries, there will be a continuing need for domestic sugar prices to be administratively set. Clearly, it is in the interests of the industry and the public for adjustment to those prices to be effected annually rather than on an irregular and more frequent basis. It would also appear to be in the best interests of all the parties for the adjustment to be determined on the basis of objective and publicly available information which bears a direct relationship to the performance of the industry on the export market. It is in the latter regard that the formula incorporated in the Sugar Agreement of 1979 fails. As 75 per cent of Australia's sugar is sold on the export market, the most critical ingredient in a formula designed to establish the domestic price should be the level of export returns to producers. It would seem to be not unreasonable for producers to be guaranteed a minimum return from domestic sales equal to the weighted average of export returns over a given period, say, three to five years. We would not quibble with that. We would be happy with it. This base figure should then be adjusted to compensate for movements in the rate of domestic inflation. To this should be added the costs incurred by the Queensland Government for refining, marketing, managing and selling sugar on the domestic market. 
A formula based on these factors would ensure that even though returns to producers from the domestic market would be out of phase with year by year returns from the export market, over time producers would receive equal returns from both the markets that they service. Additionally, they would receive compensation for industry cost increases related to their servicing of the domestic market which had been induced by domestic inflation. The present formula does not achieve this objective. It protects the local industry from world market forces. It forces Australian consumers to continue to subsidise the industry irrespective of the level of export returns. It creates no incentive to the industry to rid its structure and operations of cost inefficiencies. 
-If fuels rather than dampens the fires of domestic inflation. I would have thought that the honourable member for Lilley would have been concerned with domestic inflation. When the world price of sugar drops, consumers in Australia, the home of a large and efficient sugar industry, are likely to be the only consumers in the world not to receive benefit. The formula provides nothing more than a sweet cop to Australian cane cockies at the expense of Australia's consumers and the Australian community. 
The Opposition does not oppose the Bills because it realises, for many reasons, that the sugar cane industry has not been terribly profitable for those involved in it, although the National Country Party- the members of which appear to be absent from the chamber, apart from the honourable member for Dawson who is sitting in his wrong seat; obviously that is the reason he is remaining silent- claims it is the most efficient of the cane growing industries in the world. That may well be right, but I know that its profitability over the last few years has not been terribly high. On those grounds the Opposition does not oppose the Bills but it would like all honourable members to realise that the consumers of sugar, the great mass of the Australian public, should also have their views registered when the price of sugar is set. This formula does not do that. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Thirty years ago, the Snowy Mountains Authority began one of the world's most ambitious and daunting civil engineering projects. Having successfully completed that magnificent task, it then had to survive a determined attempt by the forces of conservatism to close it down. No doubt it was the legacy of its birth, spawned as it was by a Labor administration, the brain child of the revered Chifley Government, that led to this desire to dismantle it. However, it survived this assassination attempt and became the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. 
He hails from Snowy River, up by Kosciusko's side, 
Where the hills arc twice as steep and twice as rough; 
Where a horse's hoofs strike firelight from the flint stones every stride. 
The man that holds his own is good enough. 
And the Snowy River riders on the mountains make their home, 
Where the river runs those giant hills between. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, of course as you know, I am quoting Banjo Paterson. Banjo Paterson 's  Man from Snowy River  rode a bush horse and chased brumbies. But today there is a new breed of men from the Snowy. They have exchanged their horses for bulldozers, slide rules, hydrographic laboratories and road-building machines. They are the men whom we are applauding as we debate this Bill tonight. 
The Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Power Amendment Bill 1979 seeks to change the funding arrangements for the Snowy Mountains scheme now that it has been completed. In the past, the cost of operating and maintaining the scheme has been undertaken by the Federal Government by a system of advances payable over a period of 70 years. The only exception to this procedure has been the construction of the Blowering Dam which, being primarily for the purpose of irrigation, was considered to be the responsibility of the New South Wales Government. The contribution of the Federal Government for the period of the scheme's construction- some 25 years- has been in excess of $820m and it is now seeking to place the Snowy Mountains Authority on a commercial basis similar to that of other authorities. Through this Bill, the Government therefore proposes to amend the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Power Act to enable the Treasurer to guarantee moneys borrowed by the Snowy Mountains Authority in accordance with the conditions relating to rates which have been prescribed by the Australian Loan Council for semi-governmental authorities. The Bill also seeks to bring the legislation up-to-date in some respects in order to standardise legislation relating to statutory authorities. 
As the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  has pointed out, the Opposition does not oppose the Bill. While the Snowy Mountains scheme was under construction there was very valid reason for special financial arrangements to apply to the Snowy Mountains Authority, but now that the scheme has been completed and the Authority's primary function is one of maintenance, we see no real reason for the special arrangements to continue. I take this opportunity to pay a tribute to one of Australia's greatest engineering feats- in fact one of the world 's greatest engineering feats- the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric scheme. 
This project began in 1949 and developed over a period of some 25 years. It constitutes one of the greatest engineering works of its type in the world. By impounding the waters of the Snowy and Eucumbene Rivers and diverting them through two tunnel systems in the Snowy Mountains, the scheme provides both electricity and irrigation water for large areas of New South Wales, Victoria and the Australian Capital Territory. The scheme was designed and constructed by the Snowy Mountains Authority, a statutoty body which was established, as I said, in 1949. 
Anybody who has visited the area of the Snowy Mountains scheme will realise the enormous nature of the project. Indeed, many believed that the scheme would be impossible to accomplish. But they were not bargaining on the pioneering spirit and the great expertise that men, not only from Australia but also from many other countries brought to this scheme. It is therefore to the credit of the many men who worked on the Snowy Mountains scheme that it has proved to be the undoubted success that it is today. Conditions for those working on the project were very severe. The cold was one thing; the nature of the terrain was another. Those two conditions made construction work very difficult and often very dangerous. One hundred and twenty-three men lost their lives while working on the project and my parliamentary colleague,  Senator Mulvihill,  is currently engaged in trying to have a monument erected in recognition of the sacrifice made by these men. Of course the Snowy Mountains scheme as it stands is mute testimony to the great courage and the great expertise of all the men who worked on it, particularly the 123 men who lost their lives. It is not only the past workers on the project to whom we owe a debt of gratitude, because the scheme is an on-going project. During the long period of its construction, technical expertise was built up amongst the construction workers and the name Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Scheme has become synonymous with some of the best engineering skill in the world. In order not to waste this pool of technical expertise, a body known as the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation was established towards the completion of the project in 1970. lt is a statutory body set up on commercial lines to provide a specialised engineering consulting service to governments, within Australia and overseas. It works in conjunction with the Snowy Mountains Authority which remains as a maintenance organisation for the Snowy Mountains scheme. The Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation has a reputation of international standing and has provided a wide variety of services such as geological investigation, the construction of dams and roads and hydrological studies in many States, particularly in the Third World. It is currently in the process of negotiating a contract to help the Chinese- a subject dear to the  Deputy  Speaker's heart- to develop their hydro electric power potential. In Australia, the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation has worked on such projects as the Thomson" Dam in Victoria and the Wivenhoe Power Scheme in Queensland. These successes can be measured by the fact that it has been consistently profitable from the outset. This year it earned $38m, representing an overall profit of $420,000. Perhaps a more significant measure of the Corporation's success can be seen further in its success in promoting goodwill between Australia and the countries of the Third World, This has been achieved by its work in improving the living standards of the people of the Third World countries, an achievement of which Australia can be justly proud. 
The Snowy Mountains hydro-electric schememay therefore be seen as having achieved success in a number of areas. Not only has it provided Australia with a splendid hydro-electric and irrigation facility, but also it has strengthened our ties with the countries of the Third World. We have great reason to be grate-, ful to the men who were involved in the construction under the scheme.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you would have personal knowledge- as I have- of the problems of the Toongabbie Creek on the border between our electorates. I have pointed out in this House before, and I know that you have,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that in this areawhich is the Toongabbie Creek system which feeds the Parramatta River at Parramatta- ten people have drowned in a period of seven years. 
In 1 974  Mr Uren,  who was then the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, employed the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation to draw up a plan for the drainage of the Toongabbie Creek system with a view to alleviating this great loss of life. Unfortunately, with the change of government, this plan has never been implemented. It involved the expenditure of something like $ 1 3m to drain the Toongabbie Creek system. This involved a series of drainage reservoirs where the flood water would be pooled and then let down the river in varying amounts when the flood subsided. Unfortunately the scheme has not been implemented, but it is interesting to point out that at least the New South Wales Transport Department, through the Minister,  Mr Peter  Cox, has made money available for the building of some bridges in this area to alleviate this loss of life. 
As I have said, the Snowy Mountains scheme, as it exists, is mute testimony to the skills, the pioneering spirit and the wonderful effort that was put in by an enormous number of men who, with the implementation of our early migration scheme to develop the Snowy Mountains scheme, came from all parts of the world. Ten lives have been lost in a period of seven years by the flooding of suburban roads in the city of Parramatta. I hope that one day the message will scream out from their lonely graves that this Government should make money available to ensure that this very closely populated urban area, which is less than two miles from the demographic centre of one of the world's great citiesthe Toongabbie system is exactly two miles from Parramatta- is properly drained. It is to be hoped that one day this Government will realise that it has a responsibility in terms of humanity, if not in terms of modern progress, to see that the money is made available so that the Toongabbie Creek system is properly drained in accordance with the plan that was drawn up in 1974 by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. Perhaps that would be testimony to some spark of humanity in this Government. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill; in fact it supports it because it has the great belief that the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric scheme is one of the high points in Australian history and is a tribute to Australia's workmanship, expertise, and pioneering ability. We support the Bill but I hope that the Government will take note of the points that I have made. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
It was pleasant to sit here and to listen to the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  pontificating and quoting from the Bible according to the modest farmer and building a cogent case as to why he should come across to this side to support our amendment. I do hope that he supports his academic case with a certain amount of physical effort. It would be a short step physically but a large step towards honesty, if he moved over here to vote with us on our amendment. The honourable member should not make a martyr of himself to the cause. I thought it might be a step towards an honest assessment. 
In the first part of my speech in this cognate debate on Customs Tariff Amendment Bills Nos (3) and (4) 1979 I wish to make the observation that when this Government moves, it takes great strides. The only problem is that they are strides backwards. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  set upon a certain course in May of this year when he sought to stagger the impact of his Government's economic policies by introducing a miniBudget in which the Government imposed a 2 per cent import duty on top of the last year's 12  Vi  per cent ad valorem duty imposed on certain goods. Let us forget for a moment the cogent arguments put by the Opposition at the time of the mini-Budget that such a duty is inflationary, makes many Australian products less competitive in relation to imports and places in jeopardy their viability in the export market. Those arguments were certainly true then as they are true now. But disregard them for a moment. The fact is that the Government set upon a course in May when it introduced the levy despite our opposition. By December it got cold feet. Now it is increasing its exemption categories. We have no argument about the latest exemptions except to say that the 2 per cent duty should never have been imposed and that, given that it was imposed, those items involved should have been exempted from the very start. The point I want to make is that the Government has somersaulted yet again, just as the Treasurer did yesterday on trusts. We have a circus for a government. The Ministry is full of acrobats and jugglers. They are somersaulting here and juggling figures there. The Government even has a few resident clowns. I would not include the honourable member for Swan in that category. He really does not make me laugh; more like cry. 
The Opposition calls on the Government to recognise and to admit the folly of increased import duties. We suggest to the Government in the strongest possible terms that it accept the pleas of a fairly reasonable authority, the Confederation of Australian Industry and, I understand, the Government's own Minister for Business arid Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  and abolish the duty. By introducing exemption categories the Government's recognition of its mistake is tacit. It ought to wipe the slate completely clean and have done with the duty altogether. That sort of complete policy somersault may not do much to remove the public image of an acrobatic circus that surrounds this Government, but at least it would be a step in the right direction, which is somewhat different from the steps that it normally takes, which are backwards. 
As to the second Bill, Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 4) 1979, we do not oppose it either. As my colleague, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  has already stated, the procedures by which the Government alters Customs and excise tariffs do not provide the Parliament with adequate opportunity for review and scrutiny of the fine detail. Furthermore, the debate on increases in such duties post dates the actual enactment and collection of those charges. If the Parliament, Heaven forbid, should ever actually get its back up on any of these changes, to the extent that it votes them down, we would be closing the door after the horse has bolted. If the Government desires changes to Customs and excise tariffs and the House is not sitting, the intention to introduce the proposal is gazetted, and the new duties are collected from that time. 
But if the House happens to be sitting the Minister delivers a speech in unaccustomed and unbecoming brevity, informing members that he intends to move an amendment to the tariff, and again, the new duties are collected from that time. It would not be so bad if it really were a case of pay now and debate later, but what happens to the debate on these changes? Standing procedures dictate that the debate on the matter be adjourned, and the item is condemned to a slow death and lingering obscurity on the Notice Paper, never to see the light of debate in the Parliament. 
I can do no better in expressing the Opposition's attitude to its approach in these matters than to quote my colleague, the honourable member for Adelaide, who, I might add, will be this country's next Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. He has given notice that in government we will avail the Parliament of the opportunity to debate properly each and every tariff and excise change as it is implemented. I wish to quote my colleague. He said: 
If it is sufficiently important for the IAC to put time and effort into making individual recommendations, it is good enough for the Parliament of Australia to be involved in the scrutinising process. 
They are words of wisdom, I might add. For a number of reasons, that scrutinising process, which is the function of the Parliament by right and by duty, is more important today than it was 10 or 20 years ago. Chief among those reasons is that the Government has adopted the customs tariff measure as an instrument for raising revenue. This Government, of course, is obsessed with raising revenue and the people of Australia realise it. Just as the Government, through its own crude oil levy, has made every service station attendant a tax collector, so too has it transformed the Bureau of Customs into an arm of the Taxation office. Just as the Government latched on to the crude oil levy solely for the purpose of raising revenue and as a means of indirect taxation, and then constructed a weak excuse about energy conservation to prop up and justify that policy, so too is it fastening onto tariffs as a means of augmenting revenue in the form of indirect tax. It is doing so without thought for the consequences that those tariff increases hold for Australian industry or for employment. It is a thoroughly irresponsible, short term attitude which will prove ruinous to industry and the labour force. 
The outcome of this revenue fixation of the Government is that the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission are accepted, rejected or amended, not on the basis of serious long term consideration of the flow-on to industries, trade and employment, but on the flimsy basis of temporary, short lived political gain and revenue raising reasons. What insight is permitted into the processes which the Government applies in its analysis of IAC recommendations? What policy guidelines does the Government follow? The Government is no more open and frank in this area than it is in any other. We get the clear impression that the Ministers of this Government go around in trench coats and dark glasses and hold meetings in closets and back alleys. Decisions are shrouded in darkness and secrecy. So much for open government. As far as policy guidelines are concerned, there do not seem to be any. Anything goes. By such action, the Government reduces the function of the IAC and the Temporary Assistance Authority to the level of farce. I do not believe for one moment that the Government must either reject or accept unconditionally all reports of the IAC or the TAA for it to be shown to be applying a policy consistently. But we are not even told by the Minister whether the Government has accepted, rejected or amended the advice from those independent statutory authorities. 
Typically, the Minister, in his rubbery speeches, announcing tariff changes, makes no mention at all of the following: Firstly, the IAC's or the TAA's recommendations; secondly, whether the Government's decision involves the acceptance, rejection or variation of this advice; thirdly, the reasons for any non-acceptance or variation; or fourthly, the rationale underlying the level of assistance actually set by the Government. Now there is a nice catalogue that illustrates how irresponsibly the Government and the 
Minister treat these recommendations. Instead, the House is a captive audience to the Minister's old act of juggling figures and words. Just imagine the scenario of the Minister saying: 'Following advice and recommendations from the Industries Assistance Commission . . . '. But does he say whether the Government has accepted the advice and recommendations of the IAC or rejected them? No, of course he does not. His language is deliberately misleading. Sometimes I wonder whether he knows any other way of speaking. His misleading language has the effect of lulling the listener into the sometimes false belief that the Government has accepted the independent advice of the IAC or the TAA. Of course this is not so. 
Let me illustrate my charges concerning the Government's irresponsible and lazy approach to these matters. I shall refer to the Government's handling of the two tariff changes in which it substantially rejected the advice of the IAC. These changes related to tariffs on orange juice and on bags and sacks. I am not suggesting that the Government is composed of old bags or that it is a sad sack, but I think it should have given us the reasons why these recommendations were refused. In his brief speech introducing Tariffproposals No. 17 covering the citrus industry, the Minister failed to comment on the fact that the Government had not accepted the advice of the IAC. Instead, the Minister talked about formalising changes arising from the Government's decision on the IAC recommendations. Further, the Minister made no attempt to explain where his decision diverged from the recommendations of the IAC, or to explain why the Government thought it necessary to reject that advice. In sum, the Minister's submission to Parliament was brief and sparse in detail. In the ministerial Press statement announcing the Government's decision on the citrus industry, however, the Minister was a little more forthcoming. At least here the Minister acknowledged that the IAC advice had been rejected. Again, however, the reason was not given. 
In his speech on Tariff Proposals No. 20 concerning bags and sacks, et cetera, the Minister informed the House that the Government had rejected the advice of the IAC. However, he failed to follow up this revelation with any explanation as to where the advice was lacking or inconsistent with the aims of the Government. Again, the Parliament was being less than fully informed. However, in his Press release announcing the decision, the Minister failed to inform the public that the Government had rejected the advice of the IAC, and again failed to give any explanation for the Government's actions. Both these cases show up the inadequacy of the reporting procedures of the Government, both to the Parliament and to the public. The Government's failure to identify and explain adequately its decision on independent advice, whether on tariff, bounty or quota changes, generally has two effects. Most obviously, by denying easy access to information as to whether or not the Government has substantially accepted the advice of the IAC or the TAA, it makes a sham of the independent advisory process. It would be more honest and less hypocritical if the independent advisory process was dropped completely. Less obviously it enables inconsistencies and pork barrelling to creep into the process. 
There may be good reasons for many Government decisions, but as long as they are not explained properly we can only guess at those reasons and inevitably suspicion remains. These misleading procedures are contrary to the intentions of  Sir John  Crawford when in 1973 he recommended the establishment of an independent advisory body to make recommendations on assistance to industry. It certainly was not the intention of the Whitlam Labor Government when it established the IAC and the TAA, but it is the way in which this Government is abusing the system. The time has come for the Government to approach the whole matter with more honesty and more candour. Whilst these procedures may have been satisfactory during the 1950s and the 1960s, they are not satisfactory today. With 750,000 Australians who want a job being unable to find one, with enormous changes taking place in the countries that are our trading partners and so on, each one of the IAC reports and the tariffproposals which flow from them is far more sensitive in nature than previously. I support fully the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Adelaide. I look forward to the honourable member for Swan joining us on this side of the House. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
1 ) What capital grants were made by the Depanment of Social Security for (a) the construction of and (b) improvements made to aged persons' homes in (i) New South Wales and (ii) Australia in each year since 1972-73. 
What capital grants were made by the Depanment of Social Security to (a) Woodbury Village, Lanhams Road, Winston Hills, and (b) Parklands Cottage Trust, Bells Line Road, Kurrajong, NSW in each year since 1972-73. 
The Government which rules Australia at the moment is comprised of a group of smallminded and feeble men, dedicated to doing nothing of any significance. On any question of debate in this House the Government comes in and pours the bucket on the Whitlam Labor Government of 1972 to 1975. It is time that something was said about the positive things that the Government of 1972 to 1975 managed to achieve. I am not denying that we made some mistakes. If the people of Australia saw fit to tip us out at the ballot box, well so may it be. It is interesting to note the number of young people from schools sitting in the public galleries tonight. The voting age might reflect back to 1 972 when 1 8-year-olds were being sent to Vietnam to die in the war and they did not have a vote. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder! The honourable member for Holt will remain silent. The honourable member for Parramatta must remain relevant to the Bill. 


 -Mr Deputy Speaker, if you will allow me a minute I will become very relevant to the Bill. 
asked the Minister for  Immigration  and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 18 September 1979: 
How many representatives of the Mormon Church have entered Australia on temporary residence visas during the period 1 January 1 972 to 3 1 August 1 979. 
How many representatives of other churches have entered Australia on temporary residence visas during the same period. 
Can he say which person or organisation (a) pays the fare of representatives of the Mormon Church who enter Australia and (b) is responsible for supporting representatives of the Mormon Church during the period that they remain in Australia, on temporary residence visas. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 23 October 1979: 
1 ) How many bankruptcies were registered in (a) each city, (b) each major provincial town and (c) each country area in Australia in each year from 1969 and during the period from 1 January to 23 October 1979. 
In respect of the bankruptcies registered during the same years and period, in how many cases was the estimated shortfall of assets as against liabilities (a) less than $10,000, (b) between $10,000 and $20,000, (c) between $20,000 and $30,000, (d) between $50,000 and $100,000, (e) between $ 100,000 and $230,000, (f) between $250,000 and $500,000 and (g) in excess of $500,000. 
