I move: 
That the following Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General be agreed to: 
May it Please Your Excellency: 
We, the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia, in Parliament assembled, desire to express our loyalty to our Most Gracious Sovereign, and to thank Your  Excellency  for the Speech which you have been pleased to address to Parliament. 
I have been told that on occasions honourable members to whom Divine Providence has given the privilege of moving the Address-in-Reply to  His  Excellency's Speech have said something about their own electorates. It is unlikely that many honourable members will have heard of the electorate of Diamond Valley or will know very much about its character. I should first of all point out quite clearly that the name of the electorate owes nothing to the literary flourishes of  Mr Zane  Grey, nor are there carried on within its boundaries any mining ventures of the more speculative nature as the name might imply. 
The electorate is composed of some 54,000 citizens of this Commonwealth who lead their daily lives like most Australians, who want the things most Australians want - the same opportunities to own their homes, to educate their children and to enjoy some security. They are people who have prospered under this Government and its predecessors. They are businessmen, tradesmen, orchardists, farmers and graziers - people who have sought opportunities and been given them. They are people who now seek an improvement in the quality of their lives - people who want to see their surroundings conserved so that they may enjoy them to the full. Above all they are people who, while being proud of living in the electorate of Diamond Valley and proud of being Victorians, are proud to be Australians. They want to see this Commonwealth set new targets and take new initiatives, perhaps in fields where the Commonwealth has not yet entered. They want to see Australia take a new independence and give a new leadership in this part of the world. And if I had to select one field which concerns them immediately and where they hope to see much more Commonwealth activity, it would be the field of education. 
In a country like Australia, which is developing and expanding so rapidly, and where the available resources have to be spread over so many urgent needs, stresses and strains must appear in the education system. In Australia, these strains are inevitably exaggerated. We have cities with sprawling suburbs that have grown at such a pace that their facilities have been left lagging behind. Education is only one facility that has suffered. The money available for education has to be spread so far and so thinly that facilities in many cases have become quite inadequate. Again, the school population has expanded so rapidly that the very provision of accommodation to house it has become a major problem. 
I can speak only of Victoria, and I know the tremendous achievements that have been made in education in that State; the number of new schools built, the expanded teaching service, the reordering of priorities to give education a major slice of the State budget, the overall improvement in the quality of education. But even with that major . effort there are still many schools that rely on temporary housing in portable classrooms, untrained teachers, lack of equipment, overcrowded classes. No country in Australia's position can afford to let that situation continue in any part of the country. 
In his Speech, His Excellency mentioned three principal matters his Government would be concerned with in the field of education in this session. The third one is, perhaps the most important, for he announced that the Commonwealth was cooperating with the States in a nation-wide survey of education needs at the primary and secondary levels. The States know best what their own education needs are and the Commonwealth should be guided by what the States say their needs are. But when those recommendations are made, I hope that the Commonwealth will be adventurous, that it will not halt the new initiative it has taken in education, and that if the needs of a national education system call for it, then the Government will not hesitate to take an even greater involvement in education than it has in the past. 
The Commonwealth has already made vast expenditures on education and its expenditure is increasing. Only 8 years ago, it spent $55m in direct grants; this financial year it will spend S266m. This Government and its predecessors deserve unqualified praise for this expenditure and for the process the Government has adopted of locating areas of greatest need that can best be met by direct expenditure by the Commonwealth. This increasing expenditure should be an indication of a continuing interest and involvement by the Commonwealth in education. I can only hope, as do my electors, that this involvement will continue, and that when the national inquiry is completed and the recommendations come forward the Commonwealth will take an even larger and more generous part in the national education system of this nation. 
His Excellency also said that special grants for educational research would be made. No-one could quarrel with this expenditure. It is only by a continuing examination of the educational process, and scientific research, that there can be a continued improvement in the quality of education throughout Australia. The programme of unmatched capital grants for the construction of teachers' training colleges will be renewed for a further 3 years and the amount to be expended will be increased from $24m to $30m. Again, this is a proposal which should be universally approved, as it will be a substantial step to overcome the alarming shortage of teachers, and of properly qualified teachers, throughout Australia. 
Having said all that,  Mr Speaker,  about one important domestic matter which properly concerns all Australians, because it is so close to their own concerns and their own hopes for the future, I hasten to add that most Australians are becoming increasingly aware - and those that are not should be aware - that this nation has wider concerns beyond Australia and, indeed, a role of importance to play in the world, particularly in the part of the world known as South East Asia. Previous Governments, and the present Government, have recognised that role and have exercised that role in military assistance and civil aid. No Australian who is properly aware of the place of Australia in this part of the world could deny the importance to Australia of a proper use of military aid to the free countries of South East Asia and generous civil aid to help their progress. 
In his Speech, the Governor-General indicated that the Government would continue to give military and economic assistance to the Republic of Vietnam and would continue its Civic Action Programme. Both of these measures are to be welcomed. However, it is unfortunate that the reference to continuing economic aid to Vietnam is the only reference in His Excellency's Speech to the programme the Government has for further foreign aid to overseas developing countries. The record of the Government so far on aid to developing countries is one of which it can be proud. The quantity of aid that has been given is substantial; we have been selective in the projects we have supported to ensure that the maximum value is derived from all the aid we have given; we have, in contrast to all other aid donors in the world, made free grants, with no strings attached and with no interest payable. We have got Australia to the position where, including our grants to Papua and New Guinea, we give a greater percentage of our gross national product than any other country except France. 
There is, however, one aspect of the Government's policy on overseas aid which can be substantially improved. This is to allow as deductions for income tax purposes donations made to approved voluntary organisations engaged in private aid to developing countries. At present, such donations are not allowable deductions. There are several reasons that have been advanced why such donations should not be allowed as deductions. The first reason is that if these deductions were allowed, the effect would be that the Government would be making the major contribution and not the individual donor. However, this is an argument that is just as much applicable to the normal charity or educational institution that raises money to spend solely within Australia. If it is logical and valid that donations to those organisations should be deductible, when the result is that the Government bears the bulk of the donation, then it is just as logical and valid that donations to organisations engaged on overseas work should be deductible. And the amount involved would be much less than is already allowed by way of deductions for charities and institutions engaged on work within Australia. There are at present about 10,000 organisations engaged on charitable work within Australia which qualify for the deductibility of donations. If donations to overseas voluntary aid organisations were allowed, only a further 20 to 30 organisations would be added to the list. 
The second reason advanced for disallowing donations to overseas aid organisations is that the Government would be making a contribution to an organisation engaged on a project and the Government would have no guarantee that the project was beneficial or that the Government's contribution was being wisely spent. There is no reason why this should be so. It should be quite feasible for the Government to examine the workings of any given organisation and the type of project on which it is engaged to see whether it deserves the benefits of deductibility for donations to that organisation. It would be quite reckless to advocate that donations to all organisations engaged in this work should be deductible, irrespective of the type of work it does, the standard of that work or the countries in which it is operating. It would be necessary to consider all of these factors and to approve or declare which organisations would qualify for the benefits of tax deductibility of donations. 
After all, the Government goes through much the same procedure in respect of its own projects, and rightly so. It determines the greatest benefit to be derived from the expenditure of public moneys on overseas aid, and should be able to exercise a similar role in determining which private organisations should be approved to gain the benefits of tax deductibility. Again, it has been argued that such a concession should not be granted because it would not be known whether a voluntary organisation would be successful or not in its fund raising activities, and the Commonwealth would not know in any year how much of its revenue would have to be allocated to voluntary organisations by way of this concession. But, again, this must be the case with the organisations and institutions operating within Australia and the same uncertainty must apply with respect to thenfund raising activities. If this, by itself, is a valid argument for refusing deductibility for donations to overseas aid organisations, then it is an equally valid argument why the same concession should be refused to organisations providing relief within Australia; and that would be unthinkable. 
In addition, as I have already said, the concession would necessarily be granted only to approved organisations. One of the criteria for such approval could well be that the organisation has proved that it can readily raise funds from donations and that it can continue to do so. All that I contend for is to remove the blanket and universal disallowance of contributions, merely because they are used for projects outside Australia. 
There are, in addition, persuasive arguments why the sort of concession I am contending for should be granted. 
In the first place, it would indicate clearly to the public that the Government endorsed and encouraged the efforts of private aid organisations and would stimulate the public to make donations to them and, in many cases, to make larger donations than it has in the past. I believe that the Government does welcome the contributions made by voluntary organisations and has assisted them financially and administratively in coordinating the work they have done. But the denial of deductibility for donations has, in fact, given the impression that the Government is not giving a complete public endorsement of the work that these organisations do, and has discouraged many potential donors. If the Government were to allow deductibility to approved organisations, it would be a public endorsement that the Government gives complete support to their work and would stimulate more people and institutions to donate generously to them. 
Many companies and instutions devote a regular sum each year to charitable causes. Obviously, they look to see whether their donations are tax deductible. This is a hard fact of commercial life. Companies and institutions are deterred from donating to voluntary overseas aid organisations at the present because their donations are not tax deductible. If they were deductible, the money they have earmarked for donations would go further, there would be more stimulus to donate to this important work, the voluntary agencies would receive more in donations and the work they engage in could be more extensive. And, in the final analysis, Australia reaps the reward, knowing that it is doing more to help the development of new and struggling nations. 

 Mr Speaker, I hope that at the appropriate time the Government can reconsider its policy on this matter. If it does so it will be demonstrating even more an unqualified encouragement of the voluntary agencies which are doing so much for our neighbouring countries, and so much for Australia. Australia should not slavishly and automatically follow the precepts and practices of other countries in this or any other matter of policy, but the United Kingdom allows the concession that I should like to see in Australia; Canada allows it; New Zealand allows it; the United States of America allows it and The Netherlands allows it. I hope that the Government will at least examine the situation that exists in those countries to see whether there is some way in which this reform can be introduced in Australia.  Mr Speaker,  it is a privilege to move this motion and I move it accordingly. 

 Mr O'KEEFE (Paterson)  [3.181-  Mr Speaker,  I rise to second the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply so ably moved by the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown),  lt is a privilege to be allocated this task and I regard it as an honour to the people of Paterson who have elected me to this 27th Commonwealth Parliament as their member. Congratulations to you,  Mr Speaker,  on your re-election to your high office and also on the knighthood bestowed on you by  Her  Gracious Majesty the Queen in the New Year Honours List for services rendered to this Parliament and to the Commonwealth. 
I should like to take this opportunity to pay a tribute to my predecessor,  Sir Allen  Fairhall, who represented the people of Paterson for 20 years with dedicated service to their requirements and to their needs.  Sir Allen  occupied ministerial rank during most of this time and frequently represented Australia on important overseas missions with distinction and benefit to the nation. Me will long be remembered by the people of Paterson and Australia for his distinguished services over such a long time. 
The Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General has been acclaimed as presenting one of the finest programmes of legislation on record. It provides for many important developments in essential fields. The electorate of Paterson is like many other federal country electorates - a vast expansive area with diversified agricultural pursuits and many varied industries. The electorate's northern boundary extends over the New South Wales Great Dividing Range at Murrurundi to the Currabubula district and the black soil of the Liverpool Plains. This is a very rich area which takes in the Werris Creek, Quirindi, Willowtree and Spring Ridge districts. It is noted for its sheep, beef cattle, wheat and, of recent years, coarse grains. The development of the coarse grains industry, with the growing of sorghum and maize, has been possible through the establishment of extensive irrigation projects. In this area it is quite common for irrigation bores to produce from 80,00.0 to 100,000 gallons of water per hour, so it can readily be seen that this is an area well suited for irrigation. In Canberra last week the Australian Coarse Grain Growers Association was formed to facilitate the marketing of coarse grains. As with other primary industries, there are many problems in this industry. The object of the coarse grain growers is to get together so that they possibly can load full shipments of grain for export to overseas markets. 
Moving south the electorate covers the Hunter River Valley through Murrurundi and Scone, which districts are noted for their sheep, dairying, beef cattle and the breeding of thoroughbred horses. Many famous studs are located in the Scone area. East of Scone, on the Hunter River, is situated the Glenbawn Dam which contains some 293,000 acre feet of water. This dam was completed in 1959 and it has been a great asset to the primary producers in the Hunter River area of New South Wales and to primary production generally. Moving further south the electorate encompasses the rich dairying districts of Aberdeen and Muswellbrook. It may be of interest to note that last year the quantity of whole milk supplied by the Hunter River Valley to the Milk Board was of the order of 23 million gallons. Muswellbrook is a splendid town which is developing rapidly by reason of the big Liddell coal fired generating station which is being established there and through the establishment of some industries. The Hunter Valley Co-operative Dairy Company, which is a magnificent institution, has a big factory in the region and it manufactures milk powder for export. 
Also located in the region are a clothing factory, general engineering plants and quite a few smaller industries. There is also the very big coal industry. 
The extension of the wine industry in this district is having an important impact. In February 1967 Penfolds Wines Pty Ltd established its Dalwood Estate winery there. This was opened officially by the late Prime Minister, the  Hon.  Harold Holt. Since this time Hamilton's Ewell Vineyards Pty Ltd from South Australia has moved into the district at Sandy Hollow. It has an extensive operation. Many other vineyards and wineries are being established in the area by reason of the suitability of the soil and because it is a good area with fewer hailstorms than many other areas. It is interesting to note that in the 1967-68 period 2,016 tons of wine grapes and 139 tons of table grapes were grown in the Hunter Valley. This industry is growing very fast. It will make a contribution to the local and export trade which over the past few years has increased. Australia exported in the 1968-69 season 1,803,000 gallons of wine valued at S3.395,000. From Muswellbrook there is a spur of the electorate which goes 100 miles west through the rich dairying district of Denman, up through the Goulburn Valley to Merriwa and Cassilis and then over the Great Dividing Range to Coolah which is in the Macquarie watershed. This spur is 80 miles wide and produces sheep, cattle and wheat. 
The big Liddell coal fired power station is under construction some 14 miles south of Muswellbrook and will cost $200m. When this station is under full steam it will burn 6,000,000 tons of coal a year. This power station has also provided Muswellbrook and Singleton with much development as many of the employees of the station have built their homes in those towns. The employees of the contracting firms to the power station have done likewise. The Liddell colliery is situated here and other coal mines will be developed in the area. The coal industry is on the up grade in the Hunter Valley and is exporting coal to Japan. One company alone has contracts to the value of S45m with Japan. These towns are receiving the benefit of the power station and the uplift in the coal industry which was in the doldrums in the last few years. 
Singleton is a rich dairying area and noted for beef cattle. It has a big factory - the Singleton Co-operative Dairying Company - which also makes a well accepted brand of cheese. A lucerne pelleting plant is established in this district and is exporting lucerne pellets overseas. Proceeding further south through Branxton we come to the provincial city of Maitland which is the hub and centre of a rich and progressive district of primary and secondary industry and commercial and educational activities. This,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as you would know, is one of the older settled parts in Australia and has rich river flats which produce vast quantities of vegetables of all types, lucerne and dairy products as well as maize, sorghum and indeed all types of agricultural products. It is by far the biggest centre in the Paterson electorate and has a population of over 30,000 people. Its main industries are Bradford Cotton Mills, which employs 1,800 men and women. I might add that this organisation buys thousands of bales of cotton from the cotton co-operative at Wee Waa which is in the electorate of my colleague the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  Other establishments in the Maitland area include many clothing factories which employ 416 people: engineering works, 300; brick and tile works, 140; timber and hardware business, 157; and a very big stainless steel works, 150. 
Situated in Maitland are the district offices of the Postmaster-General's Department, including both the postal section and telephone section. The Department of Labour and National Service and the District Returning Officer are also situated in Maitland. It is felt very strongly that a Commonwealth office block could be built in this city to cater for those departments which are at present situated in leased premises. This block could also incorporate the Taxation Branch, the Department of the Interior, the field officer for Commonwealth loans, the Department of Social Services, the Repatriation Department and Department of Primary Industry. Approaches along these lines have already been made to the Government and I trust that every consideration will be given to this proposal. Such a proposal, if it were adopted, would be a benefit not only to the Government but also to the people of Maitland and district who would benefit if all these services were available and rendered under the one roof. 
On the Hunter River some 7 miles downstream from Maitland is the famous old town of Morpeth which was the port for northern New South Wales and even south western Queensland in the early days. Morpeth today has a milk factory plant for the Hunter River Co-operative Dairy Company. The district itself is a very fine area producing fat cattle and dairy products. Another spur of my electorate goes north of Maitland. This is the rich Paterson Valley of 425 square miles and it has a population of 2,000 people. This area takes in the towns of Paterson and Gresford and is a very rich agricultural land. It is some of the finest country that 1 have seen in Australia. The Lostock Dam is at present under construction above Gresford and when finished it will have a capacity of 16,000 acre feet and will provide a reliable water supply to those farmers adjacent to the Paterson River. 
It was very pleasing to hear in the Speech of his  Excellency  the Governor-General that $100m would be made available by the Government over the next 5 years for flood mitigation and flood prevention works and for the establishment of small dams in various parts of Australia. This will be of great benefit to primary industries. I suggest that there are plenty of sections in the Hunter Valley and the Goulburn River area where some of these funds could be utilised to great advantage not only for the farmers in these areas but for the nation as a whole. Most farm industries are in serious trouble due to the high cost of production and to low prices operating overseas for some of the items, notably wheat and dairy products, thus causing contracting marketing opportunities with other countries. 
Primary industries have suffered from years of drought which still gives rise in some parts of Australia to a major problem in regard to the re-establishment of primary producers. The cost squeeze problem has assumed such proportions and has had such an effect that new policies will have to be formulated to ensure that primary industry is sustained on a profitable basis. Wool, of course, has been the most affected of all. Over the years it has been Australia's greatest export earner, averaging from the year 1965-66 some $750m annually. As a matter of fact, in the last financial year, the value to Australia of the exported wool clip amounted to $795,507,000. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony),  along with Government members, have been giving this important problem considerable attention with wool industry leaders, and every effort is being made to solve the crisis which has arisen in the wool industry. Some solution must and will be found to help this great industry which has meant so much to Australia. As mentioned in the Speech made by his  Excellency  the Governor-General, some steps have already been taken to assist in this direction. 
Minerals in many parts of Australia are playing a vital role in our growth as a nation. Minerals are earning foreign exchange, promoting the development of new industries and helping to settle the vast and remote parts of the Commonwealth. These discoveries are the achievements of Australians with courage and vision. Mount Isa in Queensland, with its production of silver, lead, zinc and copper, and Hamersley Iron in Western Australia are leaders in this field. An Australian aluminium industry has come into being and exports of bauxite and alumina are being made. Prospecting for nickel, phosphate and manganese as well as asbestos continues and in 1968-69 our exports of minerals were worth $454,969,000. 
Coal has assumed an important role with increased production mainly by reason of huge exports to Japan from Queensland, New South Wales and Western Australia. In the financial year 1968-69 the value of our export coal industry was SI 17m. In New South Wales this industry has received a big boost from the coal fired generating stations which have been built at Vales Point and Lake Munmorah. The S200m Liddell power station south of Muswellbrook is well on the way to completion. The increased export market will necessitate major expansion in this mining area, and plans are well under way for this to take place. The demand for coal by the great steel industry has increased and has given further impetus to the coal industry. I am happy to say that the port of New castle has a very modern coal loading plant which is a great asset to the industry and to the Commonwealth. The number of people employed in the industry has increased considerably. In my own State of New South Wales there are now 13,000 people in the industry. The figure 2 years ago was 9,000, and for the whole of Australia is of the order of 18,000. It is quite obvious that there will be a shortage of skilled personnel in the coal mining industry in the next 18 months or so, and perhaps the Department of Immigration could have a look at this and get some skilled miners out from Great Britain. Petroleum and natural gas discoveries are increasing and at the present time approximately 10% of the petroleum requirements of this country are provided from local fields. This percentage will increase in the years ahead and will save Australia foreign exchange and will be very important in times of emergency. Experts are of the opinion that by 1976-77 exports of minerals from this country should be of the order of $2,000m. 
Abattoirs are established in my electorate at Aberdeen and are owned by F. J. Walker and Co., while the abattoirs at Maitland are owned by the Maitland City Council and the abattoirs at Gunnedah in the Namoi Valley are owned by the Gunnedah Municipal Council. The total number of men employed at these works is in the vicinity of 650. The abattoirs carry export licences and make a valuable contribution to Australia's export earnings. Of our primary industries, the meat industry is the one bright section. It has been very pleasing to learn of the increased exports of beef, veal and mutton to the United States during this current year. Australia will provide the United States with at least 527 million pounds of these products. The value of these shipments is expected to be in the vicinity of $220m. The Minister for Primary Industry and others in his Department are endeavouring to expand the old established market of the United Kingdom and also increase exports to Japan. He has announced that as from 1969 exporters will be required to earn their entitlement to the United States market by the sale of meat to other markets. This is known as diversification. This policy is aimed at developing, and has developed, markets. For example, sales of beef and mutton totalling 30.000 tons have been made to the Soviet Union and there is a possibility of further sales being made to that country. Worthwhile sales may be made to other eastern European countries such as Czechoslovakia, Romania and Hungary. The Minister for Primary Industry, the Government, the Australian Meat Board and exporters have all played their part in making these additional exports possible. I pay tribute to  Mr J.  L. Shute, O.B.E., the  Chairman  of the Australian Meat Board, who has done a magnificent job in the meat industry over very many years. I understand that he retires in June of this year. He has made a great contribution. 
The electorate of Paterson has approximately 4 million sheep and lambs and 500,000 head of cattle, comprising 400,000 beef cattle and 100,000 dairy cattle. This region would therefore hope to share proportionately in the more lucrative markets of the United States as well as establishing a diversion to other markets. All exporters should share equally any extra entitlements to export beef and mutton. Although at this stage the Government has not given any direct financial assistance to the States for the decentralisation of industry, I am one of those people who believe that every consideration should be given to such a proposal. We have in Australia approximately 3 million square miles of country and a population of 12.4 million people, 75% of whom live in the seaboard cities of Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart and Launceston. I appreciate the fact that the Government introduced in 1955 an equalisation scheme for petroleum products to keep country prices within 3.3c of the capital city prices. I also appreciate the fact that beef roads have been constructed in the north and that assistance has been given to projects such as the Mount Isa railway line and others However, it is felt that if more financial aid were forthcoming the States could do a lot more to bring about decentralisation, which is most desirable. 
The New South Wales Government, under a separate Ministry, has achieved results and over 430 industries have been brought out into the country areas of that State. I know that Queensland and Western Australia are also very active in this field. I feel that the States do not require assistance from any Commonwealth department of decentralisation but require substantial financial assistance to expand and utilise the first-hand knowledge and experience that they at present possess. The Government must devise some ways and means of helping with the equalisation of telephone costs, lt costs something like 80c or 90c to make a trunk line call some 300 miles from a capital city. Equalisation of telephone costs would eliminate a major locational disadvantage incurred by country industries. Another way in which the Commonwealth could help would be to offer special incentives to decentralise export industries. We must make every effort to build up our country towns and cities and to spread ourselves out over this wonderful country. It would be to our great advantage and assist our self preservation to do this.  Mr Speaker,  I have appreciated the courtesy extended to me during this speech and I trust that my stay in this House will be of benefit to my constituents and the nation. 
I address a question to the Minister for Education and Science. Is the Department of Education and Science presently engaged on an inquiry into scientific and industrial research in Australia, known as Survey and Comparison of Research and Expenditure or alternatively as Project SCORE? Can the Minister advise the House of the progress made in the survey so far? Can he advise the House when it is expected that the survey will be completed? 
I ask the Minister for Health: Did the Australian Medical Association, as part of its submission to the Nimmo Committee, advocate a scheme of differential benefits for medical procedures commonly carried out by both general practitioners and specialists? If so, has the Australian Medical Association departed from the submission that it then made? What submissions, if any, has the Association now made to the Minister concerning the proposal for differential benefits? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General without very much notice. He will no doubt recall the persuasive reasons advanced by his predecessor when he introduced the Commonwealth Superior Court Bill 1968 on 21st November of that year, which Bill provided for the establishment of a Commonwealth Superior Court. I ask the Attorney-General whether the arguments advanced on that occasion are still valid, whether there is still a need for a Commonwealth Superior Court and, if so, what course he proposes to follow to have such a Court established. 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development representing the Acting Minister for External Affairs. I ask the Minister whether any, and if so what, request for military aid has been received from the Government of Cambodia by Australia and if any such request has been received, what has been the response of the Australian Government. 
There seems to be almost universal agreement in the House that this is a desirable measure and I would not be thought to depart from that agreement. There also seems to be almost universal agreement that the Bill is only a first step along a road leading to a more satisfactory state of affairs so far as the practice of the drafting of legislation in this Parliament is concerned. I entirely agree with that proposition also. I would have thought, however, that one could even go further and say perhaps that the whole system is - and the system in particular that is proposed by this legislation - itself a step to perhaps a more notable objective to which we in this House should contribute to the extent to which we are able. I refer to the very desirable state of affairs of making the law as a whole intelligible to the ordinary citizen. Perhaps lawyers would start off with the proposition that it would be desirable in the first place to make the laws intelligible to the lawyer. I for one would subscribe to that proposition. But it seems to me that this after all should be the basic function of a parliamentary draftsman and the basic function of a parliament to pass laws that are intelligible, and to pass laws that are clear. 
There is - and this has become particularly noticeable over recent years - a very marked cleavage between the public as a whole and so many laws. I sometimes feel that this is due in no small measure to the fact that people feel divorced and alienated from the somewhat artificial language that is quite often adopted by lawyers not only in legislation but in the ordinary legal language that is used in documents and instruments between citizens as a whole. But 1 readily subscribe to the view, as I said at the outset, that the legislation is a first step along the road. It is a very desirable piece of legislation and it cannot but lead to an improvement in the standard of drafting of Commonwealth statutes. It is one that must set an example to the drafting of legislation in other bodies. 
There are only a few particular aspects of the Bill to which I would draw attention. These are aspects of the Bill which 1 certainly commend myself. In the first place 1 refer to clauses S and 6 because I feel that by examining these clauses one can see in part the very substantial problems that the parliamentary drafting service in this country has had to overcome. I say that because those clauses relate to both the terms and conditions of employment of the Parliamentary Counsel, and the salaries and allowances subject to which the officers will be employed. The clauses, of course, provide that the terms and conditions of appointment and the salaries will be as determined by the Governor-General, it would seem to me - and I put it to the House for its consideration - that it is more likely than not that there will still be problems in attracting to the parliamentary drafting service able and capable men. I feel that in the proposals that are put in the 2 clauses to which I have referred those problems may to some extent be overcome. 
There are - and I speak from my own experience and the experience of contemporaries of mine at a law school in Melbourne^ - very great problems placed in the way of someone who might otherwise consider going into some aspect of the civil service as a lawyer and particularly into that aspect which we have known generally as parliamentary drafting. These problems are the terms and conditions of employment and also the salaries. I know from my own experience and as I say from the experience of my contemporaries, that quite frequently people are put off by the salaries which are much, much lower than those they would obtain if they went into private practice. As the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  quite properly and quite rightly said in his second reading speech, it is not just a question of money; it is not solely a question of salaries. 1 would readily agree with that. But I feel that it is substantially a question of salary. As I say, I know from my experience of many cases where young graduates of law schools of this country have been deterred from going into the civil service as lawyers by reason of the salaries and by reason of the terms and conditions of employment that they would be offered. 
Perhaps it goes even beyond the question of salaries and the terms and conditions of employment. Perhaps it goes to the general atmosphere that rightly or wrongly they imagine prevails in the civil service insofar as their work as lawyers in the civil service would be concerned. I feel that for that reason one of the advantages of this measure is that it will create an entirely different atmosphere. General circumstances will be improved so far as the work of the Parliamentary Counsel and the whole fabric of the drafting of legislation are concerned. I feel that the atmosphere will improve once the legislation is on foot and operating. 1 hope it will create generally much better circumstances - circumstances which will be much more attractive to young law graduates than the situation existing at present. So it is pleasing that the terms and conditions of employment of prospective parliamentary counsel and their salaries will be determined in the manner set out in the Bill. This improvement will enable the Government to make more attractive offers to potential parliamentary draftsmen than it has been able to offer in the past. 
There is one particular aspect of the functions of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel to which attention should be drawn. I refer to the provision in clause 3 (e) of the Bill which is to the effect that one of the functions of the office will be to make arrangements for the printing of the laws of the Commonwealth and the Territories of the 
Commonwealth, including the reprinting of such laws with amendments. I trust that not only is this one of the functions given to the Office of Parliamentary Counsel but that it is a function that will be performed- and performed with some expedition. At the very least I hope it will be carried out with more expedition than is evident from an examination of the volumes and collections of statutes passed by this Parliament. 
In fact that is the next matter to which I intended to refer. As the Leader of the Opposition has stated, the last consolidation was in 1950. It was a consolidation that included all Commonwealth statutes up to that year. The plain simple fact of the matter is that there has not been a consolidation of Commonwealth statutes since that year. One obvious result of this - perhaps the most predominant result and the most obvious result - is that it makes it much more difficult for the mechanics of the law. the lawyers, to find the raw material with which we are supposed to work. It takes up additional time. It takes much more effort to find the statutes with which the lawyer wants to work. Again referring to the point I made at the outset, it makes it much more difficult for the citizen to find his way around the law as it stands so far as the Commonwealth statutes are concerned. 
There is, for the period since 1950, a permanent supplement of amendments and annotations of statutes which has been produced by the Law Book Company of Australia. It is a valuable volume. But the point that could be made about it also is that it only takes the collection of statutes up to 1966, to the best of my knowledge. So far as the year 1967 and the subsequent years are concerned there is no supplementary volume to the permanent supplement. I have been informed - and I have no reason to doubt that this is true - that the manuscripts for the 1967 and 1968 volumes have been prepared, that they are in the hands of the publishers and that presumably they will be published in due course. But, of course, merely to state that information in that way indicates what an unsatisfactory position it is that there should be only a permanent supplement up to the year 1966, as I understand it, that the manuscripts for the 2 subsequent years have not yet been published, and that there is no suggestion at all, or at least no evidence that I have been able to come across, to suggest that there is even a volume in preparation for subsequent years. 
That concisely, is the situation so far as the collection of statutes is concerned. There has not been a consolidation since 1950; there is a permanent supplement of amendments and annotations up to 1966; and there has not been a satisfactory volume since then. As I said, 1 hope that this being one of the functions of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel under this Bill, it will be a function that will be put into effect as soon as possible. 
Even using the permanent supplement that is available is a quite unsatisfactory way of finding one's way around the Commonwealth statutes, as they are, and of finding one's way round the myriad collection of statutes and trying to use them in the lawyer's work. So far as the statutes passed before 1951 are concerned, the use of the permanent supplement is briefly this: One uses the permanent supplement to find what amendments have been made to the Acts. But one must also go to the principal Act itself, it being an Act passed prior to 1950. So far as Acts which have been passed since 1950 are concerned, that is those from 1951 onwards, all one has in the volume of the permanent supplement is the name of the statute. The statute as a whole is not set out in the permanent supplement. One must go to the appropriate annual volume of statutes, if there is one - in most of the subsequent years there has not been such a volume - and then consult that Act. All that one has in the permanent supplement is an indication of the name of the statute. What I contend is for a further consolidation of Commonwealth statutes. But I submit - and others would express this view - that that is not the simple answer. Perhaps the answer is some system like that prevailing in Victoria where there is a reprinting of statutes, together with amendments, as soon as possible after the amendments have been made to the Act. Perhaps that is a system which is more attractive to the Government. However one or other of the systems should be put into practice as soon as possible. 
As I say - and I do so sincerely - the present situation is thoroughly unsatisfactory. When one goes to the collection of Commonwealth statutes in the Parliamentary Library for recent years, in some cases one will not find even an index to them. One will not even be able to ascertain, except by following a course through every single statute, what Acts have been passed. To me this is a very unsatisfactory state of affairs. At the very least one would expect to find a bound volume of the statutes of each year very soon after the end of each parliamentary year, together with an index, so that one can find one's way to what I have referred to as the raw material that the lawyer must use. 
There are a couple of other matters to which I want to refer briefly. As  1  said, as a whole the Bill is very commendable. When it becomes operative it will lead to a very positive improvement in the Commonwealth parliamentary drafting situation. I ask the Government to consider  2  other matters which might lead to an improvement in the system of parliamentary drafting. One of them is related to the problem that exists now and which wil'l continue to exist, I fear, even after this legislation is passed. That is the difficulty of attracting good able men into the service. I suggest that the Government could at least give consideration to offering scholarships to law students at the stage when they are pursuing their coarse, when they are undergraduates - scholarships which will tie them to the service of the Crown as lawyers. It would not automatically follow, of course, that they would go into the parliamentary drafting service but such positions could be held out to them, together with other incentives, as a possible place for them to practise, and to practise the talents they had acquired. They could be tied to the service although this idea is not very popular in many areas of activity as a system of attracting new material. There has been a lot of criticism in the States about this method of trying to attract teachers, by offering them tied scholarships principally through undergraduate courses. This is only a suggestion. I do not know whether the Government has considered this idea but it is one which I ask it to consider. It seems to me to be a possible way of attracting more men into the service. 
In addition I ask the Government to consider the possibility of giving some Commonwealth assistance to a postgraduate training scheme which would itself improve the quality of parliamentary drafting. To my knowledge no such course is available at present. I think the Leader of the Opposition also made this point. There is no reason why an examination could not be made of this situation in order to determine whether such a postgraduate training scheme could be established, for the very reason that parliamentary drafting itself is such a fine art. It is an area of activity for highly trained experts in very difficult and exacting work. It is something that would lend itself very clearly to an area of post-graduate study.  1  ask the Government to consider that suggestion also, bearing in mind the possibility that that may attract more men to the service and may make the service more successful than it is at present. 
As  1  said at the outset so  1  say at the conclusion of my remarks; the Bill is very desirable. It is very welcome. I feel that it will improve the system of parliamentary drafting that exists at present and must lead to an improvement in the quality of drafting. The present drafting is good but I believe that it can be improved. The Bill, when it is enacted, will be a positive step towards that improvement. 
I ask the Minister for External Affairs whether the United States of America signed either of the Geneva Agreements on Vietnam and whether South Vietnam signed either of those Agreements, as the honourable member for St George said in a recent debate they did? Has Australia aided and abetted South Vietnam in the breach of any agreement relating to Vietnam, as the honourable member for St George has also alleged? If the answers to these questions are no, will the Minister do his best to ensure that in the future officers in his Department are better informed about such obvious facts of international affairs than the honourable member for St George clearly is? 
The legislation now being debated is complicated and involved. It has been prepared after a great deal of detailed examination and research, notwithstanding the offhanded way in which the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  dealt with it. At the outset, therefore, I should congratulate the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  and his departmental officers who have worked so hard on the preparation of the broad scheme now embodied in the legislation and the detailed administrative machinery that it establishes. I know that this has been a difficult task for them; that diverging interests and needs have had to be reconciled; and that a basic principle of relieving the burden of fear of crippling medical costs has had to be adhered to. The final result is commendable and the Minister and his officers should be praised for the document they have prepared. 
There has been considerable criticism of the scheme proposed and now embodied in this legislation. That criticism has come from well meaning and authoritative people and it should be listened to and considered. This is what I have tried to do in coming to a conclusion on the attitude 1 should take to this legislation. I say this in particular of criticism of the scheme made by general practitioners belonging to the principal associations of general practitioners and those who have made personal representations to me. lt is healthy that proposed legislation, especially on such an important matter as medical costs, should be held up to public scrutiny and there has been no shortage of that in respect of this legislation. What is much more important, however, is that having considered all the criticisms and suggestions and taken them into account, the Government should have this legislation implemented and working as soon as possible. 
The criticisms of the legislation have thrown up an important point that should be made simply and forcefully to the Australian people and especially to the medical profession. The scheme proposed in the legislation is one of substantially two alternatives offered to the people. The present scheme is basically voluntary and is an insurance scheme based on a partnership between the Government, the insurance funds and the medical profession. It is a scheme that preserves doctors in their position of free agents and enables them to practice their profession as individual practitioners with the traditional relationship with their patients. The only other alternative  offered to  the country is that proposed by the Opposition. In these days of communication subtleties and sophistication the Socialist intentions of the Labor Party are often concealed. Indeed, the honourable member for Maribyrnong made an attempt to conceal precisely these intentions. When they are articulated they are described as democratic Socialism, as if that were calculated to give them an air of respectability that they would otherwise lack. 
So it is with Labors proposed health scheme. The Doctors Kildare of the Labor Party as they go on their hospital rounds describe their scheme as universal insurance. This is certainly a misleading description of the Opposition's health scheme lor it is nothing more nor less than Socialism and at its basis in practice is the nationalisation of the medical profession, despite assertions to the contrary by the honourable member for Maribyrnong. Lest it be thought that I am biased, let me say that my authority for that proposition is none other than one of those quasi-intellectual journals that the Labor Party seems to procreate so regularly called 'New ALP Journal'. In its July-August 1969 number this publication set out the Labor Party's health policy and described it with dewy eyed enthusiasm. lt said: 
This feasible, grass roots proposal is true Socialism, lt is a plan that all members of the Party can be proud to quote at any time and in any company. 
I trust that when it is quoted in the future in the company of doctors it will be pointed out that under that scheme doctors will in effect become paid employees of the State and that there will be no place for the doctor who still wants to retain the traditional relationship with his patient. 1 hope that when it is quoted in the company of middle and lower income earners it will he explained clearly that the scheme cannot be financed without a levy on taxable income - not income tax as is sometimes thought but income - of li% which would mean an increase in income tax of something more than 8%. I am in a quandary to this extent, that the honourable member for Maribyrnong asserted quite positively that the basis of the Labor Party's health scheme was not one of nationalisation. On the other hand, I have this scholarly journal to which I. have referred which describes the scheme in glowing terms as being true Socialism. Perhaps some honourable members opposite who follow me in the debate wilt be able to clarify this quandary in which I find myself. 
Having disposed of the Labor Party's health scheme - it is perhaps significant that I was able to do this in about 5 minutes - I would like to turn to two of the criticisms of this legislation that have been made by general practitioner bodies. The first relates to the concept of the common fee - the concept that is basic to the whole scheme. 1 would have thought that by now there would be little argument about this, but I find that this is not so for the Section of General Practice of the New South Wal'es Branch of the Australian Medical Association has said in a document very recently sent to honourable members that the Government has misused the concept as originally presented by the AMA; that the concept was developed by the AMA as a guide for the Government and the health insurance funds in setting rebates - in other words, a private matter, as they describe it. 1 could overlook these statements if the document did not go on to say, as it does, that the Government is now preparing a list of most common fees to fund members, which is said to be a break in faith. I assume this is meant as a breach of faith. lt is unfortunate that this allegation of a breach of faith should have been made and doubly unfortunate because it is wrong. 
The first point to be made is that the most common fee concept was put forward by the AMA itself and put forward as far more than a guide. The AMA made submissions and recommendations to the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs and it made a specific recommendation on the common fee concept. Its recommendation was in these terms: 
Within each State a comprehensive table of medical benefits should be available to contributors, designed to return by way of rebate at least 80% of current customary charges for each service listed. 
The reasons advanced in support of that recommendation were what one would have expected them to be - that the public was faced on the one hand with varying medical charges from doctor to doctor and State to State but on the other hand fixed benefits were payable by the Commonwealth and the funds. Indeed, it was the great defect and criticism of the previous scheme that there was such a substantial gap between the medical fees charged and the rebate which the patient received. So it was natural that the principle should have been resolved to determine the fees most commonly charged or customarily charged, as the AMA put it, and that the rebates which a patient would receive would be based on that common fee. It was that scheme which the AMA advanced in its submissions to the Senate Select Committee. It was that scheme which it again advanced to the Nimmo Committee. It was that scheme which was advanced by the Hospital Contribution Fund of Australia to both committees. It was the scheme recommended by the Nimmo Committee itself. 
Now we see the Section of General Practice of the New South Wales Branch of the AMA alleging that the common fee concept was only a guide - a private matter which the contributors were not to know about - and that there has been a breach of faith by the Government. I reject this,  Sir, for  no other reason than that the AMA itself recommended a system of common fees as the basis for calculating the rebates to be paid to contributors. The intention of the AMA, clearly, was that the common fee concept should be adopted, that it should be used, and that contributors should know about it so that no longer would they validly be able to complain about the unpredictable gap between doctors' fees and rebates. 
One segment of the AMA's own submissions to the Senate Committee and the Nimmo Committee should be enough to bury the myth that the New South Wales general practice section has raised. It said: 
With the establishment of such a schedule of benefits complaints from contributors about the amount to be paid in addition to rebates should disappear, except in an occasional case where  a  more than customary charge has been made; and here the complaint might well be levelled at the particular doctor, rather than at the National Health Scheme or the Funds. 
The second of the criticisms of the legislation to which I wish to direct some comments is the criticism of the proposal for differential rebates for the cost of medical services performed by both general practitioners and specialists. At the outset, I want to repeat that this criticism has come from well meaning and honest people who are influenced by the desire to keep the general practitioner as the fulcrum of medical practice, to keep him available as the general source of medical knowledge and experience in the interests of the general public. I know that the general practitioner groups who have criticised the scheme and have offered alternatives have done so honourably and with the welfare of the public and the type of medical service available to the public as their prime motivation. Nevertheless, criticisms of the scheme have been made and thos: criticisms need to be met or accepted. 
First, it is claimed that if this legislation is implemented general practitioners will die out and disappear; people will rush to the nearest specialist at no extra cost; and that the young graduate will be deterred from going into general practice because the financial rewards of specialist practice will be greater, and because of the danger that the general practitioner may become little more than an office doctor. After giving a great deal of thought to this argument I have come to the conclusion that, although there may indeed be some weight in it, it is certainly not sufficient to justify opposing this legislation or altering the scheme at this time. Nevertheless the Government will have to give close and continuing attention to the effects of the legislation on general practice. It will have to watch closely the trend of graduates to go into general practice or into a specialty. And if there are signs developing that general practice is not getting the stream of recruits it needs to provide the service that only general practice can provide, then the Government will have to amend the rebates scheme or provide incentives to ensure that there are adequate numbers of general practitioners. 
I believe that the general practitioner is still held in such awe by the community that patients will be guided by their advice as to whether to consult a specialist. It should not be assumed that merely because in some cases a patient may receive specialist treatment at no greater cost than general practitioner treatment, there will be a mass migration away from general practitioners to specialists. Such a view overlooks the regard that the public still has and will continue to have for the family doctor and the natural desire on the patient's part to have one doctor treat him for all conditions for which he is competent to treat him. One can proceed only on one's own assessment of what is likely to happen when the scheme is operating and my own assessment is that there will not necessarily be a mass desertion of the general practitioner. If there develop signs that this will be so and that the consequence will be a loss to general practice, then I repeat that the Government will have to amend the scheme or make other arrangements to ensure that this vital section of medical practice remains the substantial and useful section that it now is. 
It is because of the fear of some of the critics of the scheme that the scheme will erode the position of the general practitioner that proposals for amendment have been put forward by the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners. These proposals, it has been said, have been prepared after careful consideration and it is clear from the detailed nature of the proposals that this is so. The most significant of the proposals is a series of amendments which the College would like to see made to the Schedules. The principle on which these proposals have been made has been stated by the College in the following terms: 
A single scale of benefits be introduced so that those procedures carried out by and normally accepted as within the province of the General Practitioner would attract the present General Practitioner benefit, whilst those procedures more exclusively carried out by Specialists would obtain the present Specialist benefit. 
As I understand it, it is proposed that alterations should be made to the Schedules to delete one or other of those items for .which there is both a separate specialist Commonwealth benefit and a non-specialist benefit. Which benefit remains in the Schedule is determined by whether the medical service in question is one carried out and normally accepted as a general practitioner service or a procedure more exclusively carried out by a specialist. 
The first comment to make about such an approach is to question the desirability of using any such division and providing one rebate, whether the service is performed in fact by a general practitioner or a specialist. Such an approach strikes at the very basis of the Government's proposal that a patient should be able to have specialist treatment when properly referred and receive a rebate of his costs based on the fee commonly charged by specialists. To calculate his rebate on the fee commonly charged by a general practitioner when the service has been performed by a specialist and when the specialist has charged the specialist's common fee is an entirely different scheme and one which gives the patient less in his rebate and obliges him to pay more out of his own pocket. It seems to me that the Government's proposal is sensible, is based on the  b  hard facts that some services will be performed by specialists although they are also normally within the province of the general practitioner, that specialists will charge the specialist's common fee and not the general practitioner's fee, that patients will want to be referred to specialists and that general practitioners in some cases will refer their patients to specialists. All that being so, the patient's rebate should be calculated on the specialist's common fee, as the Government proposes, and not on the general practitioner's common fee as the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners suggests. 
The second comment I make about these proposals from the College is that if there is to be a system of single rebates instead of differential rebates, it does seem curious that the test for a specialist's rebate should be whether the procedure is more exclusively carried out by a specialist. I would have thought a service was exclusively a specialist service or it was not. To describe a service as more exclusively a specialist service is curious because it suggests that a service is not exclusively a specialist service, and not within the province of the general practitioner, but somewhere in between. If this is so, it seems strange why there should be a higher rebate for that type of service even though it may be performed on a particular patient not by a specialist but by a genera] practitioner. This gives me some doubt about the manner in which the dual benefits proposed by the Government have been broken up by the College and distributed over all medical services as a single scale of benefits. 
However, having made those comments I want to repeat that the Government will have to keep a close watch on the operations of this legislation when it becomes law. It should remember that criticisms of the Bill and suggestions for amendment have come from responsible men and their professional organisations and that in particular they have drawn attention to the possibility of general practice suffering from the operation of the legislation. I am not convinced that it will suffer. But the Government must continue to examine closely the workings of the scheme, any excessive use of specialists that appears and the recruitment of young graduates into general practice. For general practice to suffer and lose its position as the basis of medical practice, as has happened in some other countries, would be a disaster. 
Finally I wish to make some comments, very briefly, about another matter which is of considerable importance, that is, the lack of doctors in country areas. This seems to me an appropriate occasion on which to make some comments on that. Many country towns are without doctors. There are whole areas in the country that do not have them. My own electorate includes some near country areas and one of them centres on a town named Whittlesea. The people of that area do not have a single doctor available to them and have to travel many miles to find a doctor or rely on a doctor to find time from his practice to travel to Whittlesea to see the patient. This is a quite unsatisfactory situation which should be rectified by some means or other. T put it as a bald proposition. If private initiative cannot encourage doctors and give them the incentive to go to country districts, and this is one area where it has not happened, the Government must provide incentives and other types of encouragement to get doctors into country areas. There is a desperate need for them and something should be done about that aspect because people in the country are suffering very severely. Having made those comments may I repeat what I said at the outset. In my view the Bill is a very substantial one brought about by a great deal of hard work and thought. 1 commend the Government strongly for the legislation it has introduced. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
How many officers of the career diplomatic service (a) are presently employed in each classification in the service, (b) were employed in each classification on 1st January 1969 and (c) resigned from the service between 1st January 1969 and 30th March 1970. 
How many persons (a) applied to be admitted to the career diplomatic service and (b) were appointed to this service during the period 1st January 1970 to date. 
How many officers of the career diplomatic service in each classification in the service are presently employed in the South East Asia Branch of Division 1 of his Department. 
Of these officers how many are employed in (a) the mainland section and (b) the Malaysian and Indonesian section, and what is the classification of each of these officers. 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to statements made by the Leader of the Opposition in the Victorian Parliament,  Mr Holding,  when speaking to a learned body in Victoria known as the Fabian Society? In particular did the Attorney-General note that  Mr Holding  said that a State Labor government would 'confuse and confound' the Federal Government by paroling men now in prison for breaches of the National Service Act? Are persons convicted of offences against Commonwealth laws confined in prisons provided by the States? If so, under what arrangements are they so confined? What would be the consequences in the enforcement of Commonwealth laws should there be a Labor government in Victoria which released on parole persons convicted of breaches of the National Service Act or any other Commonwealth law? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, being a very compassionate individual, I feel particular compassion on this occasion for 2 honourable members of the Opposition, the first being the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Barnard),  and the second being a constituent of mine, namely the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  I feel compassion in the first place for the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition for the rather hurt manner in which he described his Parry's obvious loss and damning defeat in a debate that took place in this House last evening. 
On that occasion you will remember,  Sir, that  the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen),  who is also the Acting Prime Minister, demonstrated the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign and its manifestations for what they were - a base ar.d disloyal movement, disloyal to Australia and to Australians and, above all, disloyal to the Australian troops who are fighting in Vietnam at present. I feel some compassion for the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition because the Opposition probably was taken by surprise to some extent. That, probably, is the reason why the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  spoke last evening in an attempt to divert public discussion away from the Vietnam Moratorium. He spoke on Papua and New Guinea. That base attempt to divert public attention from this matter of extreme importance was revealed amply by the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes). 
As 1 say, I also feel some compassion on this occasion for the honourable member for Wills who is one of my constituents. I noticed that the honourable member was here this morning. Having a special regard for this constituent of mine, I am concerned about what might happen to him when next he has to front his left wing Labor Party Executive in Victoria. As far as I know, he is not in Melbourne at this moment but is in Canberra. It may well be that he is in Melbourne and is not in Canberra. I for one will be quite relieved to learn that he is. I say simply that he was here this morning and not in Melbourne. I am concerned about the welfare of this constituent of mine. I have fear and trepidation about what may happen to him when he accounts to this Executive in Victoria for the attitude that he has taken on this issue. 
I should have thought that the bare, simple and obvious facts about the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign were quite clear and by now would have been made clear to the people of Australia. We object most strongly to this treacherous movement on several grounds. The first ground is that the whole movement is one which is inspired, initiated and riddled through by very clear Communist influence. The House and th, people of Australia would have heard yesterday afternoon the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  list a number of card carrying members of the Communist Party who are behind this movement and who are taking an active part in it. They were listed. They were named. But I could have said to the honourable member for Farrer on that occasion that it was not necessary for him to list them by name because already, even in this House, we have had the clearest evidence that we could require of Communist activity in that movement. 
The best evidence, as you will understand,  Sir, is  an admission. We have had what has amounted to a very clear admission, in particular from the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  that Communists are taking part in this movement and that he has been prepared to stand beside them if his views are the same as theirs. I would say with all respect to the honourable member that it has been abundantly clear to me so far as this debate is concerned that a great degree of similarity exists between his views and those of the Communists who are taking part in this movement. 
I think that the day before yesterday was a very unfortunate day for Australia. I thought so when I was outside Parliament House and saw the assembled multitude, variously estimated by the newspapers to number from 3,000 to 300, being harangued by the alternative Prime Minister of this country, the Leader of the Opposition, and then by the honourable member for Lalor in the company of flags that I was told were Vietcong flags. I was distressed and disturbed on that occasion. I say that it was a sad day for Australia. Obviously, the Vietcong flags were a part of the whole panoply which members of the Opposition taking part in this movement were using. So obvious were these flags that they made even the tuxedo of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  pale into insignificance. These flags held high above the crowd obviously were part of the whole machinery that was being used on that occasion. 
We criticise this movement because of the Communist influence in it. We say that an obvious similarity exists between the views being expressed by the Communists in this movement and the views being expressed by members of the Labor Party in this movement. One of the most interesting aspects of that point - and my comment reminds me of it - is this: My understanding is that the Australian Labor Party at least in terms has made its stand particularly clear on association with Communists.  Senator Greenwood,  in a debate on this subject in another place the other night, drew the attention of that place to a certain clause in the rules of the Australian Labor Party. lt was written into the rules of the Labor Party, I understand, in 1948. Subsequently, it was reaffirmed in 1957. I will read the clause which is in these terms: 
No Communist auxiliary or subsidiary can be associated with the Labor Party in any activity, and no Labor Party Branch or member can cooperate with the Communist Party. 
I should think that the operative word in that clause which, I understand, is still part of the rules of that organisation, is 'cooperate'. If this Moratorium Campaign is not a clearly demonstrated case of cooperation between members of the Communist Party and members of the Australian Labor Party, in the first place I do not understand what the meaning of the word co-operate' is and, in the second place, the absolute deception and confusion is quite apparent. 
There is of course another similarity in the views expressed by some members of the Opposition and those of the Communist Party. Again, as 1 understand it, the Australian Labor Party had made its policy on the withdrawal of troops from Vietnam clear insofar as the terms go. I should have thought that its call was not for the immediate withdrawal of troops from Vietnam but for withdrawal without the addition of that operative word 'immediate'. One thing is clear, lt is that the withdrawal of troops from Vietnam immediately is Communist Party policy. I enter a gentle caveat, with all respect to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  as to what he said about this policy in his speech last night. He said that it was the joint policy of the Australian Labor Party and the Communist Party. Looking at the clear terms of the policies of these 2 Parties, my understanding is that the immediate withdrawal of Australian troops from Vietnam is the policy not of the Australian Labor Party but of the Communist Party. Now, what that adds up to is quite clear: that members of the Australian Labor Party are advocating what is stated in clear terms to be the policy of the Communist Party of Australia on this issue. I should think that that is a disgraceful situation and one that should be condemned. 
Again, one sees this policy of immediate withdrawal clearly articulated in the propaganda that is being disseminated by the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. You may have seen,  Sir, as  honourable members have seen, advertisements inserted in the daily Press during the week. I refer particularly to one advertisement that appeared in the Wednesday issue of the Melbourne 'Age'. The call articulated in that advertisement was for the immediate withdrawal of Australian troops from Vietnam. Only this morning 1 received a pamphlet in the mail from the Vietnam Moratorium Committee in South Australia calling for the withdrawal of Australian troops in Vietnam. The pamphlet stated that Australia must withdraw its troops totally, immediately and unconditionally from Vietnam. As 1 said earlier, this is a clear statement of Communist Party policy. Quite apart from the weighty evidence which the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  put before the House last night, it is clear beyond any doubt that the policies of the Vietnam Moratorium movement are identical in terms with those of the Communist Party of Australia and they should be condemned. 
The second ground on which honourable members on this side of the House criticise the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign and the second ground about which I am particularly concerned is that integral to and basic to the machinery of the whole operations of the Moratorium Committee is a breaching of the law. Again we do not have to go beyond a clear admission to obtain evidence of this fact. You would have heard,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the honourable member for Lalor say in a recent debate in this House that he wanted to go to Melbourne today - and there is no doubt that he will not have any trouble with the Labor Party Executive in Victoria - to take part in an act of civil disobedience. This is what it has been articulated to be and this is clearly what it will be - an act of civil disobedience where a breach of the law cannot be avoided. The Committee has called upon the people of Australia to demonstrate in the streets, to sit in the streets and obstruct truffle so that the attention of the community will be drawn to the policy which the Committee espouses. This will involve a breach of the law. But the justification for doing so is even more condemnable. 
The justification for breaching the law is the view that this is a legitimate way in which to bring about a change in the law or a change in the Government's policy. I deny that proposition. It is completely false. It is completely contradictory to the whole tradition of democracy and the law making procedure upon which the democratic process is based. The Committee is. as I have pointed out, calling for a change in the Government's policy not through the democratic procedures, not through an amendment to the law, not through peaceful demonstrations and not through letters to the editors of newspapers or any of the normal channels of communication which are used in a democratic country but through what is clearly admitted to be an open breaching of the law. I condemn the supporters of the Opposition who are prepared to espouse this particular way of bringing about a change in the law of the country or the Government's policy. The consequences are terrible insofar as law and order in this country are concerned. I would like to know whether this means that if I want, to bring about a change in the law or in Government policy or if any other group in the community wants to do the same we arc entitled to block the streets, obstruct traffic and breach the local and State laws, ls that what it means? ls this the extent of my democratic rights? I deny that I have any right to bring about a change in the law or a change in Government policy by such means. 
Honourable members may recall that the other day I asked the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  whether his attention had been drawn to statements made by the Leader of the Opposition in the Victorian Parliament,  Mr Holding,  when he addressed the Fabian Society. Apparently  Mr Holding  said - and so far he has not denied it - that if a Labor government were elected into power in Victoria he, as Premier, would parole those people who are now in prison in that State as a result of a breach of a Commonwealth law - the National Service Act. This is an indication of the sort of lawlessness which is appar ently in store for the Victorian people if the Labor Party does form a government in that State. It is disgraceful that a potential Premier of a State should indicate that he would parole these men irrespective of the fact that they were given a fair trial and convicted of an offence under Commonwealth law. It is a disgraceful attitude for him to take. 
The voice of the people in my State is, of course, the 'Sun News-Pictorial'. 1 would like to quote briefly something which the Sun News-Pictorial' said about the attitude which has been taken towards a change in the law and the whole procedure which the Vietnam Moratorium Committee and the honourable member for Lalor in particular are adopting. The article states: 

 Dr Cairns has put forward the remarkable proposition that a citizen has the right to break objectionable' laws. lt goes on to say: 
But who decides what is objectionable? Or is such a right possessed by only some people? The possibilities are dangerous. 
For any major political leader to advocate disrespect of the law is surely irresponsible. 
That statement is clearly what 1 would regard as the proper altitude (o take towards this issue. The protagonists - the honourable member for Lalor and the whole organisation which apparently he leads in connection with the Vietnam Moratorium debate - say that they have the majority of the people on their side. This is quite wrong. 
 So far as I can see, the contribution which the honourable member for Hunter makes to this Parliament seems to be limited to interjections. Perhaps he should check his facts. 
That is right. If the honourable member had looked at the results of a recent gallup poll he would have seen that there is absolutely no evidence whatever for what he has just contended. For instance, the most recent gallup poll indicates the attitude of the Australian people on this issue of the withdrawal of Australian troops from Vietnam. The people interviewed were asked: 'Do you favour bringing all of our forces in Vietnam home to Australia now, bringing them back in stages or keeping the same number in Vietnam until the end of the war?' It is indeed surprising - at least to the Opposition - that the exceptionally high figure of 19% of the people interviewed said that they were in favour of keeping the troops in Vietnam until the war came to an end. It appears that 50% were in favour of bringing the troops back in stages and only 25% were in favour of bringing all of our troops back to Australia now - in other words, immediately. I should think that this is fairly reasonable evidence of the view of the majority of Australians. Only one quarter of the people of Australia hold the same views as honourable members opposite. The majority view is not being represented by the Vietnam Moratorium Committee. The proposition which has been put forward by honourable members on the other side of the House that the Committee represents the view of the majority of the people of Australia is quite erroneous. 
The curious thing about this Campaign - and comments have been made about it on numerous occasions - is that a particularly one-sided attitude or view has been adopted. I have already indicated that it calls for the withdrawal of Australian and United States troops. It has been emphasised on many occasions that the Campaign has not called for the withdrawal of all troops from Vietnam. In particular, there has been no call for the withdrawal of North Vietnamese troops. The Vietnam Moratorium Committee does not call for North Vietnamese troops to withdraw; it calls only for Australian and United States troops to withdraw. Why is there no cry for the withdrawal of North Vietnamese troops? Honourable members on this side of the House have asked this question before but have never received an answer. 
The same situation applies when one looks at the atrocities which are being committed in Vietnam by the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese. We have asked on many occasions why there has been no condemnation of the atrocities perpetrated by Vietcong and North Vietnamese on innocent civilian people in Vietnam. The whole grisly catalogue of the atrocities committed should be well known by now, but I want to put to the House some specific occasions to illustrate my proposition that when these events have occurred and have been canvassed in newspapers there has been no protest from honourable members on the other side of the House or from the other people who are associated with the Vietnam Moratorium Committee. When one looks at them one appreciates exactly what they are - a grisly catalogue of atrocities perpetrated on innocent people. 
The House may well recall the event in 1965 when the Mai Kanh floating restaurant was bombed and destroyed in Saigon by Vietcong and 89 innocent Vietnamese people were killed. The House may well recall the event that occurred in December 1965 when 23 Vietnamese civilians were sprayed by machine guns by the Vietcong. The crime of these innocent people who died was to work on a civil project - on a canal, in a village in Vietnam. I do not know whether the House recalls incidents that happened at the beginning of February this year, just to bring it up to date. If honourable members look at incidents that happened on that date they will find that the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese initiated 6 terrorist acts and that 11 civilians were killed, 23 wounded and 2 abducted. On the same day, in the hamlets of Tan Hoa and Lanh Thong 5 innocent civilians were killed by the Vietcong in an attack that they launched. So it goes on. There is a whole catalogue of such incidents occurring every day during the Vietnam war. Every day one receives reports of and reads about atrocities perpetrated on innocent people in Vietnam. 
Why is it all so one-sided? Why is there no moratorium, no protest, today about these atrocities? The Communist Party is comparatively small in numbers in Australia. It is comparatively small in financial strength. But it is a shocking state of affairs that the Communist Party in Australia today has so many willing handmaidens to do its work. This is a shocking state of affairs that grieves me particularly. Plenty of people are prepared to take part in movements like the Vietnam Moratorium Committee; plenty of people are prepared to take part in demonstrations against the United States of America and against Australia; plenty of people are prepared to gather outside this Parliament House, accompanied by Vietcong flags, and demonstrate against Australia's interests and against the United States; plenty of people are prepared to condemn the United States and Australia; but they are not prepared to condemn Communist acts perpetrated on innocent people in Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia. Why is it, we ask, and we have continued to ask and 1 continue to ask, that the Vietnam Moratorium Committee will not protest against this grisly catalogue of atrocities? Why is it that the Vietnam Moratorium Committee will not call on North Vietnam to cease this useless, terrible invasion of South Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia? 
Apparently part of the organisation of the Vietnam Moratorium Committee is starting to slip. It was only today, right at the death knock, that 1 received some of the literature from this Committee, lt was interesting to see this, because I have commented on the complete lack of criticism of the Communist side of this war. It was interesting to see one fitful, measly, vague criticism of the  Communist cause in the letter that I received today from the South Australian Co-ordinating Committee of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. The criticism that this part of the Committee is prepared to make of the Communist cause is a generous half sentence which says: 
Nor do we regard Hanoi and the National Liberation Front as blameless. 
What generosity when we have been asking for weeks - indeed, for months - for condemnation of the attacks by the Communists on South Vietnam. What generosity that members of this organisation should come forward at this late stage and say: We do not regard Hanoi and the National Liberation Front as blameless'. I say, in conclusion, that this is a sad, unfortunate day in Australia because we see in our capital cities Australians doing the work of the Communists here and overseas. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service will recall that last week he announced that arising out of discussions between unions and employers a dispute settling procedure had been evolved for adoption in industry. 1 ask the Minister whether this procedure related to the penal clauses of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, whether those clauses were discussed by the parties in relation to dispute settling procedures, and if so with what result. 
Has the Minister for Education and Science had brought to his attention the occurrence of a series of fires in Melbourne when State schools have been destroyed or, iri some cases, seriously damaged? Has the Minister been advised of the extent to which the fires have affected the school building programme in Victoria? Will he see whether there is some form of assistance that the Commonwealth can give to Victoria to help it overcome this loss to its education system that it has suffered? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish initially to make some brief comments about some of the remarks that have fallen from Opposition members in this debate. 1 would have thought that no one on this side of the House could have taken any exception whatever to what the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  said. What he said was an unqualified support for the legislation and the proposals contained in the legislation. I would have thought that the proposal now in hand for the construction of additional teachers colleges merited the complete and unqualified approval of this House. 
The honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  made 2 comments which I think deserve to be taken up at this stage. The first of them was a comment to the effect that the Commonwealth should not have engaged in this piecemeal approach to remedying the problems of education, but that it should be looking in detail by means of a survey of some sort or some more detailed inquiry into the real and overall needs of education in Australia. When I interjected, perhaps somewhat out of order, and reminded him that the Commonwealth and the States were already at this time involved in an inquiry into the needs of education in Australia he replied that it was too late to be engaging in inquiries of this nature. I would have thought that the kindest remark that I could make about that is that it is something of a logical slip. It seems to me that one cannot on one hand say that the Commonwealth should be conducting a detailed inquiry into the overall needs of education in Australia and on the other hand assert that if there is such an inquiry in progress at the moment it is too late, it is a waste of time and the Commonwealth need not go on with it anyway. 
The second matter on which I should make comment, with respect to the observations of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith, is his statement that the States are sick and tired of the interference by the Commonwealth in the intricate details of specific aspects of the various construction programmes that the Commonwealth assists. No doubt he had in mind the teachers colleges programme, the science blocks programme and the library programme in particular. If I understood him correctly he meant to say that the Commonwealth was interfering in the detailed aspects of the construction of buildings, libraries, science blocks and so on. This comment is not, of course, confined to the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. It is a criticism of the activities of the Commonwealth in education which is quite frequently made. Indeed some State government officials and even Ministers make the same criticism. The only point I want to make about that is that it is in my view a completely unwarranted and unjustified criticism of the activities of the Commonwealth Government in these particular education projects. The former Minister for Education and Science, who is now the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  at the very least has completely denied that there is any such intrusion by the Commonwealth in that respect or that there is any excessive supervision of the size of windows, doors, the heights of walls and so on to which the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith specifically referred. 
It seems to me quite legitimate to say that the Commonwealth should take far more of a part in the education programmes of the States and it should take a part in more specific programmes to improve education in the States. But the only thing I want to say at this stage is that it is a completely unwarranted criticism of the Commonwealth to say that there is detailed, intricate interference by the Commonwealth in the buildings that are put up and the way in which they are erected. 
With all due respect to the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy),  it seems to me that the vast bulk of his comments had nothing to do with this legislation at all, which of course is concerned solely with teachers colleges. He did make one comment that did - if I may stretch the definition - appear to be relevant. Honourable members will recall that the honourable member for Bendigo took the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  to task for the statement made in his second reading speech when he said: 
This increase is designed to assist the States with their teacher education programmes at a realistic and reasonable level and was determined in the light of current experience and knowledge of building costs. 
The honourable member for Bendigo took great exception to the words 'realistic and reasonable' and he wanted to know precisely what they meant. I would have thought, with great respect to the honourable member for Bendigo, that the intent of what the Minister was saying in his second reading speech was abundantly clear. What the Minister was saying was that there is an identifiable need in education in this particular area; that there is a desperate need for a great increase in the teaching force of all the State education departments, and indeed in the private school system. Of course the Minister is drawing attention to the fact that the $30m to be made available by the Commonwealth under this scheme will go a long way towards meeting the needs of the States in providing teachers in State schools. 
I do not know whether the honourable member for Bendigo is suggesting that there would still be a shortage of teachers and that there will still be a need for additional teachers in the future. If that is what he is saying, it seems to me to be a completely trite and superficial observation about an obvious state of affairs. There will always be a need for an increased and improved teacher education programme. There will always be a need for an improved and expanded school building programme and a financing programme for every single aspect of education and not only for the provision of school teachers. My understanding is - and I have been given to believe that this is correct - that this proposal will make available some 6,000 places in teachers colleges. That is to say, 6,000 additional places in teachers colleges will be made available because of the extensions to teacher training colleges and the new colleges being built with this money from the Commonwealth. It seems to me quite clear that, although these 6,000 additional places in teachers colleges will not completely solve the problem, it can be justifiably said to be a wholesale attack on the problem of the shortage of teachers throughout this country. It is a very serious and wholesale attack on the problem. The provision of an additional 6,000 places in teachers colleges will go a very long way towards solving the problem of the shortage of teachers in Australia. 
I will now turn to a few brief comments of my own that I wish to make on this legislation. It seems to me fair to say that the Bill marks another substantial contribution by the Commonwealth Government to the improvement of education in Australia. The benefits for education in Australia will be seen in an increase in the number of teachers available in the nation, an improvement in the quality of teaching and the acquisition by the States of substantial assets in the form of teacher college buildings. To take only my own State of Victoria as an example, the legislation and the grants to follow it will mean the construction of Stage 1 of the Latrobe Teachers College and extensions to the teachers colleges at Coburg, Burwood, Monash, Melbourne, Frankston and Bendigo. The honourable member for Bendigo is no doubt pleased to hear of this although I cannot recall him making any specific reference to it in his own speech. The benefit to Victoria from the grants to be made under this legislation is obvious. Without the grants these buildings would not have been built, or would not have been built for many years to come. 
As I said, it is obvious advantage that is being conferred by this legislation. The Commonwealth is making a real and substantial contribution to education in the States. Two points deserve specific emphasis at the outset. The first is that this is not the first occasion on which the Commonwealth Government has made substantial grants to the States for the construction of teachers colleges. The first scheme, which operated from 1967 to 1970, provided S24m to the States for this purpose. But the scheme embodied in the Bill now before the House is for the provision of $30m for the next triennium - an increase of S6m. The Commonwealth is therefore providing S54m to the States in 6 years for the construction of teachers colleges. There has been a call made throughout this nation for action in education. The Commonwealth's teachers college programme is real action. The expenditure of millions of dollars on teachers colleges is having a direct impact on education in Australia. It is concrete evidence that this Government does not merely talk about education, but that it is acting. 
The second point that should be made is that the payment of grants to a State under this legislation is conditional on 10% of the new places at teachers colleges in the State made available by the grants made under the legislation being held by student teachers not bonded to serve State education departments. That provision in the Bill is another assistance to the independent school system which contributes so much to education in Australia and which is so deserving of support. One would have thought that the debate on the advisability of giving financial aid, in measures such as this, to nongovernment schools would be well over by now. Apparently the travail in the Victorian section of the Australian Labor Party indicates that in that bastion of conservative radicalism  -  I cannot think of any other way to describe it - doubts still linger about the wisdom of State aid for independent schools. 
The teachers college programme is a clear case of the need for assistance to the independent school system. Those schools need teachers just as much as do government schools, and in many cases some of them are in even more desperate need for additional teachers. Commonwealth assistance is being given to provide teachers in government schools and it is only fair, reasonable and just that assistance should be given to provide additional teachers in nongovernment schools. The legislation should be welcomed from all sides because, as I have said, it will make a substantial contribution to improving the quality of education in Australia - and there is plenty of scope for improvement. A great deal of criticism has been levelled at the Commonwealth and State governments in recent years for what is alleged to be a neglect of education. I am quite sure that many of the critics do not appreciate the tremendous problems that all governments in Australia have in providing adequate classrooms, equipment and teachers and in providing a better quality of education. 
In a rapidly developing country such as Australia resources are stretched over many competing needs. The problem of education is not merely one of providing classrooms, teachers and money; it is a problem of doing so in the sprawling suburbs where the people live and where the education must be provided. Ti is a problem of catering for an ever-increasing school population. It is a problem of catering for a school population that is staying at school longer and is demanding more education. It is a problem of keeping up with all the modern refinements of a sophisticated education system requiring modern equipment and facilities and better trained teachers. Above all, it is a problem of finding the resources for a costly education programme at the same time as finding resources to develop a continent - to build dams and engage in all the construction and developmental projects that Australia is engaged on at present. If the critics of the education system in Australia mean that Australia's education system still has deficiences and areas of inadequacy, then I readily agree with them. If, on the other hand, they mean that governments in Australia today do not have an awareness of the importance of education and of the need greatly to improve the quality of education being provided here, then I reject those criticisms completely. 
Who can look at the increased involvement of the Commonwealth Government in education in the last few years and say that it is not concerned? Who can look at the library and science block programmes and say that the Commonwealth is not trying to locate areas of need where it can help? Above all, who can deny that the Commonwealth has a vital role to play in education or that it is not taking positive steps to realise that role? It grieves me when I look at the achievements of the State governments and of the Commonwealth Government in education in recent years to see the critics wipe those achievements aside completely as though they were nothing and condemn Australian governments for neglecting education. 
There is one final point that I wish to make. Again I must come back to the comments made by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. Honourable members may recall that 1 took issue with him when he raised the alleged interference by the Commonwealth Government in the intricate details of the States carrying out the specific education programmes that the Commonwealth is involved in at the moment - the science block programme, libraries programme and the teachers college programme. As I said then, the criticism is quite often made that Commonwealth officers are going out to particular building sites armed with their rulers and tape measures and are saying to State officers: 'You humble State officers; do not put that nail in there, and make that window 2 inches wider than it is' and so on and so forth. That criticism is frequently made, and it is always wrong. 
Let me take up the other aspect of the same problem. By way of illustration I refer to a particular project under foot in my own electorate - a library project being built at a secondary school. Criticisms and comments were made that the project was not proceeding as rapidly as it should, and as this was a project that initially was being financed by the Commonwealth Government I made inquiries about the progress of the job at the Commonwealth Department of Education and Science. I make no criticism of the officers of that Department when I say that I was informed that they did not know anything about the progress. They did not know what stage it was at and the reply was given, as I understand it is given on these occasions, that this was a matter for the States. Money is given to the States, which carry out the particular job for which the money has been provided. 
I emphasise that I make no criticism of the officers of the Commonwealth Department nor, indeed, of the department carrying out that particular policy, but it does seem to me quite proper to say that at this stage of our development the Commonwealth perhaps should be taking a greater particular interest in the carrying out of projects of this nature. Not only should the Commonwealth be engaging in additional areas of educational activity, but it could well be keeping a closer supervision over the expenditure of grants on particular projects. Rue the day when the Commonwealth has to concern itself with the width of a window or the height of a wall, but it does seem quite fair to say that the grants being made by the Commonwealth should be spent in such a way that the Commonwealth Government is able to supervise the expenditure. It certainly should be aware of the progress of certain jobs that are being carried out with these particular grants. 
Although this is perhaps not a matter on which there might be a wide degree of public support at present - there is certainly some support - the Commonwealth should investigate other areas of education where it can help and where it can take part. The success of the science blocks programme, the libraries programme, the teachers college programme and the other programmes in which the Commonwealth has been involved, is obvious. I would have thought that this would encourage the Commonwealth to look into further areas where it could help in a degree of partnership with the States. It is significant, of course - and I referred to this before - that there is in progress at the moment a survey of the educational needs of Australia. This is a survey in which the Commonwealth and State governments are taking part. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Are Australian manufacturers of high voltage, high current electrical equipment obliged to send their products overseas for testing, due to the lack of adequate testing equipment in Australia. 
If so, will he ask the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to investigate the establishment of a national electrical testing laboratory to test such equipment promptly and economically within Australia. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. The AttorneyGeneral will recall that on 19th August, this year, in answer to a question, he said that he had authorised investigations into a number of activities which might lead to situations in which he would consider it proper to prosecute offences against Commonwealth law. I ask: Have these investigation continued? If so, can the AttorneyGeneral advise the House whether any such prosecutions will be launched? 
 1  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of electors of Diamond Valley respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes; 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution,' page 951); and 
That in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14th November, 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service and relates to the inquiry being conducted by  Mr Justice  Smithers into the conscientious beliefs of  Mr Brian  Ross which apparently commenced with a private meeting between the judge and Ross on 24th August. Did  Mr Justice  Smithers have a further private talk with Ross in 
Melbourne yesterday and issue a statement after that meeting to the effect that he is now in a position to make the report requested by the Minister and that he would report promptly? Was  Mr Justice  Smithers appointed by the Government to hold an open judicial inquiry into Ross's beliefs, or a series of private talks with Ross? Will the Minister give an undertaking that before any decision is reached in this matter Ross will be obliged to give his evidence on oath in open court, and subject to cross-examination in the same way as conscientious objectors have been obliged to do in the past? 
1 was rather amused to hear, and somewhat curious on hearing the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  refer to the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and the statements he has made on Cambodia in the past. I was particularly amused because the Leader of the Opposition said that he apprehended the honourable member for Wills to have said a certain thing about Cambodia. I would have thought, with respect, that what the honourable member for Wills had said about Cambodia, as well as what he felt, were abundantly clear. I would have thought that there would have been ample time over coffee breaks at the Travelodge Motel last week for the Leader of the Opposition to have found out. What the honourable member for Wills perceived about the situation in Cambodia is fairly clear: That the obvious and basic fact is that North Vietnam invaded Cambodia. That is a basic fact which the Leader of the Opposition has not seen or, if he has seen, perversely refuses to concede. It is that basic refusal to admit the clear and proven circumstances in South East Asia that is at the root of the disagreement between the Government and the Opposition in Australia on foreign affairs today. There has been a clear invasion of Cambodia by North Vietnam. This was the situation in Vietnam and it is the same situation we now see taking place in Laos. It is that situation, those basic and clearly established facts, upon which the Australian Government has determined its foreign policy, having regard to the primary interests of Australia. 
The Leader of the Opposition made some disparaging remarks about the attitude of the Government to Cambodia today. I would have thought that the attitude of the Government is clear on this issue. It has been stated clearly on a number of occasions by the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon).  You will recall,  Mr Chairman,  that emphasis was placed on the diplomatic initiative. This was a situation which at one stage could have been solved by diplomatic initiatives and diplomatic means. Those means were pursued, and pursued in such a way that no-one in his right senses could assert that the Government had failed to pursue every peaceful avenue for assisting Cambodia in the situation in which it then was - of being invaded by North Vietnam. Those diplomatic initiatives having been pursued we have now turned - the Minister for External Affairs emphasised this the other night in the statement he made on foreign aid - to a substantial and substantially increased foreign aid programme for Cambodia. 
It was clearly pointed out by the Minister that this aid would be available for logistic support, items of equipment, dual purpose items and, if necessary, arms. In this situation the Government has pursued diplomatic initiatives and has pursued every avenue open to it to bring about a peaceful situation in Cambodia. Now it is further assisting Cambodia by the provision of this additional aid. Our belief is - and in my submission it is a reasonable belief - that this is a proper course to take with Cambodia in its present situation. I cannot see why the Leader of the Opposition and his cohorts continually fail to admit the simple proven fact that North Vietnam has invaded Cambodia and that it is in Australia's interests to do something about this state of affairs. To refuse to do anything about it in a positive way that will contribute to Australia's well being, which is the stand maintained by the Opposition, is an abrogation of the obligations of an opposition, the alternative government. 
It is not these sophistries of the Leader of the Opposition with which  I  wanted to deal tonight but some other sophistries that we heard from him on an earlier occasion. That earlier occasion was when the Minister for External Affairs made his recent statement on foreign aid. The comments made by the Leader of the Opposition after the Minister had spoken prompted me to make some comments about this situation. The analysis of Australia's foreign aid programme given by the Leader of the Opposition was both inaccurate and illogical. He analysed one set of figures to prove one point but abandoned that method when convenient and used  a  different set of figures to prove a different point. His assessment of the contribution made by Australia showed a complete lack of understanding of the nature of Australia's contribution and the whole trend of foreign aid in the world today. 
I want to refer to some of the points he made in order to show how wet I or otherwise they stand up.  His  first effort was to show that the first foreign aid budget of the present Government in 1968-69 showed the lowest rate of increase in our foreign aid appropriation since 1961-62 and that the Government for that reason was half-hearted and indifferent to the importance of foreign aid. The method used to prove that point was completely unpersuasive. True it is that the percentage increase in the first year of this Government was 6.9 per cent, as the Leader of the Opposition said. But, after all, it was an increase in real money terms of over $9m. Recipient countries are concerned with what they are getting this year rather than what they got and used last year or in any previous year. 
Even that is not the point. The point is that the pundits and the experts and the Leader of the Opposition tell us that we should be looking at the percentage of our gross national product that goes to help developing countries. If we look at the Australian gross national product figures we find that the first year of this Government saw an increase of 12 per cent of our gross national product going to foreign aid. 
The authoritative source in foreign aid statistics seems to be the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. That body tells us that we spent 12 per cent more of our gross national product in the first year of this Government than in the previous year. That was the greatest increase in the percentage of our gross national product devoted to foreign aid in any year since 1961 - the magic year that the Leader of the Opposition used as his base year. 
The only true test is what percentage of our national wealth we are giving to developing countries. We gave a higher percentage of our wealth in the first year of this Government than ever before. Last year we gave $16m more than the year before. This year we will give $18m more than last year. When we look at such figures, the real amounts of money given by Australia each year, the mere accounting gymnastics that the Leader of 'the Opposition engaged in pale into insignificance. Even if it is the percentage rate that is important, Australia's performance is still quite remarkable. For instance, between 1961 and 1968 Australia's percentage rate of increase in its foreign aid allocation was greater than those of the principal aid donors, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States. Again, the Leader of the Opposition places great importance on the Pearson Committee's report that developed countries should increase their resource transfers to developing countries to a minimum of 1 per cent of gross national product by 1975. What he omits to state is something else that the Pearson report said, that if Australia did increase its aid to reach that target of 1 per cent by 1975, its aid is already of such dimensions that the rate of growth would be less than the rate of growth that would have to be built up by Austria, Canada, Denmark, Japan, Norway, Sweden and the United States. 
In other words, we are already closer to that mythical 1 per cent than all of the countries I have mentioned. In any case, as the Pearson report points out, the 1 per cent target is not an aid tar get at all as it includes commercial transactions and concessional aid. The aid target that was recommended by the Pearson report, as the Leader of the Opposition would have realised if he had read it, was 0.7 per cent of gross national product. The tables annexed to the report show that Australia is closer to achieving that percentage than the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Japan and all of the other aid donors listed other than France. 
But what concerns me more than the half picture presented by the Leader of the Opposition's figures were the comments he made on our aid to Papua and New Guinea and the comments that were made a moment ago by the honourable member who interjected. There is a disturbing tone in those remarks of the Leader of the Opposition that aid to Papua and New Guinea in some way does not count. The Leader of the Opposition expressly said that if that aid were excluded we would be thirteenth on the Development Assistance Committee's list instead of third. Let us have a look at the report of the Development Assistance Committee and see what it had to say about that. It certainly recognises the value of Australia's aid to Papua and New Guinea and does not seek to excise it from Australia's total aid as the Leader of the Opposition has attempted to do. The report states: 
There are over one hundred 'less-developed countries' in the world striving for development Among them the case of Papua and New Guinea is one of the most remarkable. 
Having entered the post-war period as almost certainly the most primitive territory in the world, Papua and New Guinea has in recent years become the subject of one of the most concentrated programmes of external development assistance in the world. 
That concentrated programme of external development has been engaged in by Australia. 
Secondly, the Development Assistance Committee recognises that Australia has an obligation to aid Papua and New Guinea because of its obligations as the administrator of a trust territory for the United Nations. Finally, although Asia as a whole receives aid from all donor countries, Papua and New Guinea receives bilateral aid from one country only, and that is Australia. It seems to me in these circumstances quite irrelevant and tortuous to seek to sever from Australia's overall aid part of that aid that Australia is providing, in fact is obliged to provide and that only Australia is apparently prepared to provide. It would be just as foolish to suggest that France should be relegated further down the list because she provides aid to Algeria or Morocco or anywhere else or that the Netherlands should be relegated because she provides aid to Indonesia. 
In this context it is particularly significant that there is a meeting in Tokyo at the moment of members of the Development Assistance Committee. I was very pleased to see, judging from newspaper reports, that the Minister for External Affairs had indicated that, although we accepted the magic figures of 1 per cent and 0.7 per cent as targets for our foreign aid budget and although they were desirable figures, Australia would not be harnessed or shackled to them. The Minister pointed out the basis of this Government's foreign aid policy so far. He pointed out that we were concerned with deeds and not with words; we were concerned not with magic figures or formula but with ascertaining from developing countries what their real needs were and how we could best meet them. Australia's attitude has been one of performance. We have placed the emphasis on performance and not on formula that we should try to achieve by 1975 or any other year. When we look at some of the other industrialised countries that are contributing to underdeveloped countries through their aid programmes we find that the overall result by and large presents a fairly dismal picture. Others talked in 1961, at the beginning of the first development decade as  President  Kennedy referred to it, and they have been talking ever since until we are now beginning another development decade. 
What has happened in that decade, while some of the industrialised nations of the world have been embarking on their own foreign aid programmes? A number of things have happened. They are of particular significance. The first is that at the beginning of that decade the industrialised nations of the world were contributing about 0.89 per cent of their gross national products to underdeveloped countries. At the end of the decade it was 0.77 per cent - a decrease. At the beginning of the decade their aid was  $4.5  billion overall. 
Towards the end of the decade it decreased to S4.1 billion. During this time Australia's aid has been increasing substantially. The most disturbing feature of some of the foreign aid programmes of some of the industrialised countries of the world is that underdeveloped but developing countries are now paying S4,000m a year in interest on their debts to industrialised countries, in servicing their loans and in repaying those loans. 
Australia will have no part of shackling the underdeveloped countries in this way and of impeding their progress in this way. We have given money. We have not lent it, to be repayable with interest. We will not embark on the same kind of foreign aid programme idea which some of the gnomes of Zurich have embarked upon and which have caused great problems for underdeveloped countries. 
 I present the following petition : 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That they are gravely concerned at the apparent appalling increase in crime in Australia, particularly in densely populated areas; 
That they fear the police forces of the various States and Territories are undermanned and underequipped to handle the increase in crime; 
That their concern is aggravated by the apparent number of unsolved crimes, particularly those involving violence to the individual, including murder, 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that the Commonwealth Government will seek the co-operation of the States and supply extra finance to the States to enable: 
proper town planning and development to halt the increase in densely populated areas which leads to increased crime; 
the proper staffing and equipping of police forces to enable adequate crime prevention and detection measures to reduce the frightening increase of both solved and unsolved crime; 
the proper detention of and rehabilitation of criminals; and 
compensation to victims of crimes of violence; end your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
 As a supporter of the Government, may I say at the outset that 1 deprecate the very unfair and provocative comments made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  about the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen).  I thought not only were his comments about the Minister inaccurate but also in extremely bad taste. The humble committee on which I serve - the Government Members Education Committee - has had from the Minister nothing but:the most generous and lav ish assistance so far as the imparting of information on education in this country is concerned. 1 think we all owe a debt to the Minister for the work he has done in this regard, particularly since the Government is still taking part in a new field. The Commonwealth's role in education, apart from its role in the Territories, is a comparatively new one compared with those matters given to the Commonwealth under the Constitution. 1 would have thought that in those circumstances the work of the Minister - and 1 say without any hesitation that of the 2 previous Ministers for Education and Science also - deserves the highest commendation by the Parliament. The Leader of the Opposition made particular reference to the fact that he has asked a number of questions of the Minister that have not been answered. He has also asked a great number of questions of other Ministers which have not been answered. I would have thought, with respect to the Leader of the Opposition, that for one who holds himself out to the community as one who knows all the answers, he would not necessarily have to behave in such a petulant way because all the questions have not been answered. 
The case put forward by the Leader of the Opposition - it was only revealed in its true simplicity at the end of his speech - was one calling for a virtual complete take over of education in this country by the Commonwealth. That is a view with which 
I  do not agree. It is a view with which the Government does not agree. We certainly believe the Commonwealth has a rale to play in education. The facts speak for themselves and they indicate that this and previous governments have recognised that the Commonwealth does have such a role and that the Government has started to carry out that role. I for one believe that there are other areas where the Commonwealth could take a very active part in  education - in particular  aspects of education that hitherto have been the sole province of the States. For instance, the Commonwealth has had a very successful secondary school libraries programme. I would have thought that programme could well have been extended to primary schools. 
Thank you. When 1 see that a proposition I make is acceded to by the honourable member for Wills I realise 
I have the whole country on my side. The importance of the libraries programme is recognised universally throughout Australia. I would think that the importance of it and the great value of it having been so recognised by educational authorities, speaks volumes in support of the proposition that the scheme should be extended to primary schools. There are many other areas where the Commonwealth could take a positive part in education. In those areas the States are solely concerned at present. As I said, I for one feel that the Commonwealth could usefuly operate in some of these areas. Nevertheless education is primarily a matter for the States. No matter what fulminations the Leader of the Opposition goes through in his annual budgetary rituals, the hard facts remain that, constitutionally, education is a matter for the States and not for the Commonwealth. 
The day to day running of schools should be a matter for the States because the State governments are closer to the schools, closer to the people and closer to the children who use those schools. The administration of the schools should, as it is, be a matter for the State governments and not for the Commonwealth Government. It would indeed be an unfortunate day when the Commonwealth Government was involved, to that detailed extent, in the day to day running and administration of schools.' These are matters for the States. The case that was put forward by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  in support of his motion was a rather thin case. I will not concern myself to refer to more than one paragraph of the 3- paragraph motion that he put to the House. Indeed, as far as I can recall, he did not advance any reasons in support of the other 2 paragraphs. The main burden of his argument, as I recall it, was in support of paragraph (b), which the House will recall was in support of a proposition that the Commonwealth should: 
establish committees to examine and make recommendations on - 
the objectives and quality of Australian education, and 
inequalities of educational opportunities. 
The short answer to that is that the work that would be done by such committees is already under way. In the first place there is the work of the State education departments and the Commonwealth Department of Education and Science. These departments are doing the very work that is contemplated by paragraph (b) of the motion put forward by the honourable member for Fremantle. Secondly - it is curious that the honourable member for Fremantle did not make any reference to this - the Commonwealth has already established a committee, presumably of the type that is contemplated by this motion. That is why I say it is very curious that the motion should be phrased in this way. 
The Government has already established a committee which is known as the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education. If honourable members look at the terms of reference of that Committee they will see that the work that will be done by that Committee will be of the same type as that of the committees proposed to be established by the honourable member for Fremantle. Let me refer briefly to some of the terms of reference. The first is that the Committee shall advise on priorities in educational research. The second is that within the limit of the funds made available from time to time by the Commonwealth the Committee shall examine and make recommendations to the Minister for the financial support of proposals submitted by various people or bodies, which are then set out in the terms of reference. Such proposals may include educational research projects, the dissemination of information about completed research and research in progress, and measures for the training of research personnel. I could mention other terms of reference of the Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education. Merely to state those 2 terms of reference that I have already stated, I would think, makes it quite clear that the work of that Committee is the work that would be contemplated and done by the type of committee proposed by the honourable member for Fremantle. It being duplicated and overlapping work, it seems to me that there is no substance in that part of the motion put forward. 
The criticism I would make of the comments of the honourable member for Fremantle relate to the reference - this was followed up by the Leader of the Opposition - to the Commonwealth activity in education having been spasmodic. This seems to me to be a very inaccurate and very unfair description of what the Government has done so far in the Commonwealth sphere in education. I feel that the facts bear this interpretation out: The Government has started off with the proposition that education is primarily a matter for the States but that nevertheless there are areas in education where the Commonwealth can meet particular needs. The Commonwealth, having started off from that presumption, has sought to examine and to locate those areas of need and meet them as  it can. Honourable members know, without my repeating them, the particular projects on which the Commonwealth Government has embarked. It has followed the method that I have outlined and has analysed the structure of education throughout Australia to see whether there are any particular pockets of need that can be met by Commonwealth activity and Commonwealth finance. The particular ones are the libraries programme, the science blocks programme and the teachers colleges programme. Many others are set out in the useful material that the very informed Minister for Education and Science has put before the House in these proposals. 
I think, therefore, that it is very unfair and very inaccurate to say that the role of the Commonwealth has been a spasmodic one. Rather, it has been a continuing search for those areas where the Commonwealth is fitted and suited to try to meet a particular need. It is curious that the honourable member for Fremantle overlooked the measures that have been proposed by the Government in the Budget. I refer to the items covered by the estimates which are before the Committee at the moment. It is well that they should be recorded because I believe that each of them is a very substantial monument to the achievements of the Commonwealth Government in education. An extra $3Om is to be provided for the teachers colleges programme over the next 3- years. University Commonwealth Scholarships have been increased in number by 1,000. Further, post-graduate research scholarships have been increased by 50 to 700 for this year. Additional post-graduate specialised scholarships for particular courses to meet the needs of industry, commence and government create a new field. Under this scheme 100 scholarships will be provided this year. The most striking increase in the expenditure of the Commonwealth on education for this year is the proposed expenditure on colleges of advanced education. Not only is it an expenditure of $40m but it is an increase of 75 per cent on last year's expenditure. 1 fail to see how the finger can be pointed at the Commonwealth Government and how it can be said that the Commonwealth is failing in its activities in education, when we see expenditure of that magnitude and increases to that extent in 1 year. The same point can be made with respect to the overall expenditure by the Commonwealth on education. This is a comparatively new field for the Commonwealth. Its expenditure . on education this year will increase by 25 per cent over last year's. It. is well to remind the community at large that that expenditure is now over $300m in a field which is a new one for Commonwealth activity and one that until comparatively recently was the exclusive province of the States. 
I want to conclude on one matter that was referred to in particular by the honourable member for Fremantle. I emphasise that what I am about to say is my own personal view. I am not happy at all with the present method of distribution of aid to independent schools. Let me emphasise at the outset (hat my personal view is that I support the general policy of giving aid to independent schools. Reasons have been advanced in support of that policy by the present Minister for Education and Science, by other representatives of the Government on numerous occasions and by the community at large. It has been accepted as a general proposition that independent schools should be supported. 
The  point  I  am not  happy  about  is that  it should be within the abilities of the Commonwealth to analyse the individual needs of particular schools or particular groups or types of schools to see whether they are more deserving and more in need of the State aid that is given than other groups of schools. One occasionally trots out examples of wealthy independent schools like Geelong Grammar and Melbourne Grammar, to mention two in Victoria. I must say that it is that type of school that concerns me. When I see in my electorate small parish schools that are struggling for survival, when I see Christian Brothers schools or schools in that category, when I see other small independent schools that are on the verge of closing down, I find it hard to justify per capita grants to those schools in the same quantities as to the more prosperous schools. 
Indeed, my view would go even to the extent that it is unwise for independent schools and greater public schools such as those I have mentioned to accept aid on these lines for this reason: At the present time they are counting on Government assistance. At present they are making their calculations on $50 a year for each secondary school pupil. In the future they will be assuming that these grants will be increased, and in the normal course of events one could presume that they would be increased. Once an independent school, particularly of the type I have mentioned, the wealthy schools, begins to calculate its finances on that sort of basis, that is the thin edge of the wedge that is being driven into the independence of that school. It is the first sapping of the independence of those schools; it could lead to a very substantial lessening of the independence of such schools. In conclusion, I would like to see more emphasis placed on State aid for the poorer parish schools that need it more than the more wealthy public schools, and less emphasis placed on giving State aid across the board. 
f present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at the apparent appalling increase in crime in Australia, particularly in densely populated areas; 
That they fear the police forces of the various States and Territories are undermanned and underequipped to handle the increase in crime; 
That their concern is aggravated by the apparent number of unsolved crimes particularly those involving violence to the individual including murder. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that the Commonwealth Government will seek the co-operation of the States and supply extra finance to the Slates to enable; 
proper town planning and development to halt the increase in densely populated areas which leads to increased crime, 
(he proper staffing and equipping of police forces to enable adequate crime, prevention and detection measures to reduce the frightening increase of both solved and unsolved crime, 
the proper detention of and rehabilitation of criminals, and 
compensation to victims of crimes of violence, and your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Has the Minister for External Affairs any information regarding the planning behind the United States troop withdrawals from Vietnam? Are decisions in this matter determined by an informed appraisal of the military situation in South Vietnam, or by pressures for noninvolvement at home, or a measure of both? If there is solid achievement in Vietnam making these withdrawals possible, why is it that so many people and many of the media purvey the impression that we are getting out of Vietnam after a bad mauling and a species of military defeat? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport in his capacity as Minister assisting the Minister for Trade and Industry. The Minister will recall that, when he introduced the Industrial Research and Development Grants Bill in 1967. he said that the Government recognised the need for the incentive provided by payment under that legislation to have a reasonable and certain continuity and that the scheme would operate initially for 5 years. With that background. I ask the Minister: First, why has the Government altered the scheme after 3 years to reduce the general grants paid under the Act to 33 per cent of eligible expenditure instead of 50 per cent as previously; secondly, is this reduction not a break in the continuity of the scheme; and, thirdly, will the Government consider reverting to the 50 per cent grants especially as expenditure under the scheme last year was apparently $2m less than had been appropriated? 
I congratulate the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory on his speech. It was the best speech he has made in this place. It was the shortest speech he has made in this place, fortunately. To bring the discussion back to the motion that is before the House I would remind honourable members that there is a specific reference in this matter of public importance to the fact that statements made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  were calculated to influence the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in a particular and unfavourable way. The important thing is to see what is meant by this word 'calculated' because not only is it alleged that statements have been made which are 'calculated to embarrass, compromise and prejudice' the workings of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, but in the further flights of fancy in his speech the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  alleged also that there has been coercion and a veiled threat to the Arbitration Commission. So it is very important that we see what is meant by this word 'calculated'. It is on the meaning of that word that the whole matter raised by the Opposition hinges. 
It is my submission that there are two essential elements that must be proved to establish that the charge involving the word 'calculated' has been made out. The first element is that there has been an intent by the Prime Minister and the other Ministers specified to influence the Arbitration Commission in the way alleged, and the second element that must be established is that the Commission is susceptible to that sort of pressure, that the Commission is able to be influenced and could have been influenced by what has been said by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Labour and National Service. My submission essentially is that neither of these elements has been made out and that neither can be made out. 
Let me take these elements in order.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you will recall that firstly 1 submitted that it must be established that there was an intent on the part of the Minister for Labour and National Service and the Prime Minister to influence the Arbitration Commission. I have read the speech that the Minister for Labour and National Service delivered to the Committee for Economic Development of Australia, the speech which the honourable member for Hindmarsh quoted out of context. I say that there is nothing in that speech to indicate that there was any intention by the Minister to influence the Arbitration Commission in its workings. I shall refer briefly to some of the essential features of his speech, some of the specific things mentioned by the Minister in his speech, to show the argument that was being advanced on that occasion. In his speech, the Minister for Labour and National Service summed up his argument in this way:  1 believe that the Commission cannot disregard the economic consequences of its decisions. This raises the question of what we mean by 'economic consequences' or more precisely what we mean when we say that wage increases granted by the Commission should not exceed 'economic capacity'. 
In that extract is contained substantially the argument put forward by the Minister in the bulk of his speech. Again another short extract can perhaps illustrate the thesis for which the Minister was contending. On page 14 of the copy of the Minister's speech that I have he said:  l  have argued that there is much to be gained^- socially and economically - from pursuing a rational wage policy. I have also said that the Commission has an important responsibility in this regard. 
Again, towards the end of his speech, the Minister said: 
What 1 am suggesting is that the Commission cannot ignore the economic consequences of its decisions. 
They are only a few extracts from the Minister's speech. It is a pity that when leave was sought by the Minister from the honourable member for Hindmarsh to have the address that he gave to that body tabled, leave was refused. I do not believe that it is fair to criticise the Minister for Labour and National Service by quoting extracts from his speech completely out of context. I think the opportunity should be given to the public to see in toto what the Minister said on that occasion. It is for that reason that I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard the address made by the Minister to the CEDA group. 
The Minister for External Affairs will recall that in answer to a question yesterday he said that his information was that there was a possibility of a change in the attitude of Malaysia towards the admission of Communist China to the United Nations. Will the Minister inform the House what, so far as he knows, is the present attitude of the Malaysian Government towards the admission of Communist China to the United Nations and its present attitude towards Communist China generally? 
 The basic question that should be under discussion in this debate on the defence estimates is whether the incredibly large amount of money appropriated for defence is being spent in the implementation of the right defence policy. It is a particularly appropriate time for that sort of question to be examined in Australia when we see changing circumstances around us every day. Let me list the 3 circumstances that are changing and which come to my mind at this stage. Firstly, there is the announcement by Canada that it proposes to recognise and has recognised the Communist-Chinese regime. Secondly, there is increased United States withdrawal from Vietnam. Thirdly, there is the parti cular matter about which 1 want to make some comment tonight, the announcement in the speech made by the new Prime Minister for Malaysia, Tun Abdul Razak. 
The Malaysian Prime Minister has announced - and quite a section of question time over the last few days has been devoted to his utterances - that it is the wish of the Malaysian Government that Malaysia should be neutral, that Malaysia should be allowed to remain in a neutral zone in South East Asia. He went so far as to say that that neutrality should bc protected and preserved and guaranteed  -  I think that was the word he used - by the United States of America, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Communist China, lt is not very surprising that the Opposition should over the last few days have seized upon this statement as evidence that there is some sort of collapse in this Government's defence policy, that there is some sort of basic change in the defence and foreign policies of Malaysia, and that the whole situation politically in South East Asia has changed dramatically and basically. T would suggest to honourable members opposite that what they should do is to look at precisely what the Prime Minister of Malaysia has said to see exactly how these things measure up against the facts set out in his statement. When we look at what he has said we realise that there is hardly enough to justify the allegations of the Opposition that there has been a change in the foreign or defence policy of Malaysia or that there is any danger of collapse or adverse effects on the defence policy of this country. 
There were 3 important and significant aspects of the Malaysian Prime Minister's speech. One might describe them as qualifications and important restrictions on his call for neutrality in South East Asia and his plea for a neutral and non-aligned Malaysian defence and foreign policy. First, he asks for a guarantee from Communist China and the other 2 great powers of neutrality of the region and the neutrality of Malaysia. Of course, what he is saying here, when one looks and thinks of the specific terms in which he puts it, is not merely that there should be some utterance by Communist China that it will guarantee, in some loose way, this neutrality that the Prime Minister looks for. but that there should be positive actions by 
Communist China to maintain that neutrality. What he wants, and what we want is what we have always maintained, namely, that Communist China should cease its aggression against the smaller nations of South East Asia and should cease arming, helping and financing Communists in Indo China who are seeking to upset the governments that are presently in power in those countries. Indeed, Communist China should cease its actions which are destined solely to prevent the people of those countries in South East Asia from determining their own type of government. This is the sort of guarantee that the Prime Minister of Malaysia is looking for; it is the sort of guarantee that we ourselves have always looked for. Communist China should cease the aggression that it has been engaged in over recent years towards countries in South East Asia and, in particular, that it should cease trying to achieve that object by financing, arming and giving support to Communist movements in South East Asian countries. 
One can look at what the Prime Minister of Malaysia said when he addressed his own Party shortly after he became Prime Minister. He said: 
We should have some assurances from Communist China that she would abide by the policy of non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries. 
That has been the policy of the Malaysian Government and of the Australian Government, and I venture ' to say that it remains the policy of both of these Governments. But when one has looked at what the Malaysian Prime Minister wants to see in action from Communist China, one can go from there to see what Communist China has done in the past, because by its actions in the past, I suggest, one can get some indication of what its actions are likely to be in the immediate future. One can look at its actions towards India, irrespective of whether it had any just claim to the territories it claimed in northern India. One can look at its actions towards Tibet. One can look at its actions towards Taiwan and the off-shore islands of China. One can look at ils positive actions to support, encourage and arm Communist movements throughout the whole of South East Asia. This, indeed, is what has happened with respect to Communist Chinese actions over recent years. 
Its present policy should be enough to indicate that there is little, if any, likelihood that Communist China would wish to or would take any steps at all towards guaranteeing the neutrality of Malaysia, any other country in South East Asia, or the region itself, because one can see what Communist China is doing at present. So far as the Far Eastern Economic Review has been able to estimate, Communist China is spending $US200m a year in arming South East Asian Communists in the countries in Indo-China. It has given positive and articulated promises to Communist movements in Indo-China that they can have safe rear areas in mainland China; that it will give political support to those Communist movements; that it will give material support to those Communist movements and that it will give military support to those Communist movements. Those Communist movements, as I have said, have been concerned to prevent the people of South East Asia determining their own type of government and to impose a Communist type of government on them irrespective of what their will may be. 
I should have thought that the classic example illustrating that there can be no assurance at all that Communist China would be interested in guaranteeing the neutrality of South East Asia is the closed door policy that it took towards the Djakarta conference on Cambodia, because here was a clear case of an opportunity to have a degree of neutrality brought about in 1 South East Asian country - Cambodia. Here was a real test, and the Communist Chinese refused to have anything to do with it. What we wish to see, and what the Malaysian Prime Minister and his Government wish to see, is a series of positive actions indicating that the Communist Chinese are prepared to guarantee the neutrality of South East Asia. I venture to suggest that there is no evidence whatsoever to indicate that Communist China is interested in or able to achieve that. 
The second and significant qualification made in the speech by Tun Abdul Razak was that Malaysia would use all of its energy to defeat Communism. He recognised, and he said it in his speech, that Communism was still the major danger in South East Asia. He pledged his Government to use all its energy to defeat Communism. The third significant restriction he indicated in his speech was that Malaysia would make a positive contribution, as it had done in the past, to maintain peace, stability and regional co-operation in the region. So. there are 3 significant aspects of the speech of Tun Abdul Razak that seem to have been overlooked. Firstly, Malaysia will look for some indication of integrity and some indication that Communist China would refrain from subversion and aggression in South East Asia; secondly, Malaysia still recognises the dangers of the Communist menace to neutrality in the region, and thirdly, Malaysia will continue to - contribute to peace and stability in the region of South East Asia, lt is our policy that if one has to negotiate on matters such as the neutrality of South East Asia, one should negotiate from a position of strength and not weakness. Of course, one wants to see co-operation not only with Communist China but with any country which is prepared to leave other countries, such as those in South East Asia, alone and with any country that is prepared to refrain from' aggression and from assisting subversive elements in those countries. I have very grave doubts whether Communist China is interested in the slightest in maintaining or guaranteeing neutrality in South East Asia so 1 venture to suggest that members of the Opposition are perhaps somewhat misguided, with all respect to them, in thinking that in this statement from the new Prime Minister of Malaysia is an indication of a change in his foreign or defence policy and that, consequently, there will be changes in our foreign or defence policy. 
I ask the Attorney-General a question. Does an adequate law enforcement system require a full range of extradition treaties between Australia and foreign countries? What is the present position of the adequacy of the extradition treaties presently existing between Australia and foreign countries? What steps is the Government taking to ensure that there are sufficient and adequate extradition treaties in operation, if necessary by negotiating additional treaties? 
 In this debate on the estimates for the Prime Minister's Department I wish to speak briefly on one matter which was raised by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  last evening. Towards the end of his speech the honourable member said: 
The professional engineers case was a prime example of the stubbornness of the Prime Minister and his blindness to facts, reason and the need for fair play. It is no use Hie Prime Minister denying - and I do not believe him if he does deny it - that be used his influence upon the Public Service Board to prevent the professional engineers from retaining the position they secured in the general wage structure of Australia as a result of the 1961 engineers case. 
It is with respect to that allegation that I wish to direct a few remarks. I, like the honourable member for Hindmarsh, have a great deal of sympathy for the claims being put forward in Australia at the present time by and on behalf of professional engineers. It seems to me, if one looks at the position of professional engineers in this country' - at the training they have to undergo and at the work that engineers in this country are engaged on today - that they are entitled to much higher salaries than they are receiving. To give proper and due recognition to their significance in the industrial development and progress in Australia in general they should be paid much higher wates. 
I strongly disagree with the suggestion of the honourable member for Hindmarsh that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  - on other occasions he suggested the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  also - had exerted pressure or influence on the Public Service Board and the Arbitration Commission in the engineers case. I have made a study of these allegations and I have come to the conclusion as a result of my researches, and starting off without any prejudices at all, that the allegations are unjustified. I say they are unjustified from a detailed reading that I have made of the judgments delivered by the Arbitration Commission in the engineers case. 
I would like to leave this aspect for a moment and return to the first of the two points that I said I wished to raise in respect of this matter. The University of Melbourne Appointments Board earlier this year published a survey of professional incomes in Victoria. That survey contains some very interesting and useful information illustrating the relative position of engineers in respect to other professional men. For instance, one can start off with the dentistry profession. From the analysis that the Appointments Board made one can see that only 8 per cent of the dentistry profession earn under $6,000 a year and that 60 per cent of the members of this profession are earning $10,000 a year or over. Let me take my own profession - the profession of law - which 1 followed before I took the steady slide towards bankruptcy. Thirty per cent of those in the profession of law are earning less than $6,000 a year - very happy days - and 46 per cent are earning $10,000 or over. If one goes further down the list - one has to go a long way down - one comes to the engineers. This profession, according to the list, is below the profession of surveying, for instance, where only 16 per cent are earning $10,000 a year. 
In the profession of psychology 14 per cent of those engaged earn $10,000 a year or more. Then we come to the engineering profession which is the third last category on the list of the numerous professions examined by the Appointments Board. One finds that the very large percentage of 27 per cent of people in this profession are earning less than $6,000 a year, and that only 12 per cent are earning $10,000 or over. That is a very small percentage. It is only in two other professions - the professions of agricultural science and social work - that there is a lower percentage of men employed who are earning a salary of $10,000 a year or over. I would have thought that those figures by themselves illustrate the first proposition I wish to make, that when we consider the importance of engineers to the industrial development and progress of Australia and the salaries they are receiving, which are set out in surveys such as the one I have just mentioned and others, we must agree that the salaries are lower than they should be. 
 The honourable member for Sturt refers to the Government. I was just about to come to the Government. 
I do not need the encouragement of the honourable member for Sturt to get into the Government because I am quite capable of doing that from my own examination of the facts. When one looks at the position of engineers in the Commonwealth Public Service one can see that their position is not very satisfactory. One can see, for instance, the very useful material that the Australian Association of Professional Engineers has produced and submitted to the Commonwealth Public Service Board in support of its claims for higher salaries. The information set forth in those submissions demonstrates the very unsatisfactory position that professional enginers are in as far as their relative positions are concerned. One can look, for instance, in this material that the Association presented to the Board and see that a technician, for instance, at a minimum age of 21 years is earning a salary of $3,989 a year.  His  qualifications are the Leaving Certificate plus a 4-year technical college certificate which is the equivalent of a 2-year full time course. 
One can go up the scale to an individual described as clerk class 5, whose salary at the minimum age of 23 year is $5,356 a year. That gentleman would be an honours graduate who had completed a 4-years course of study plus a 1-year administrative training course. When one conies to the engineer, one finds that a diplomate engineer aged 21 - this is according to information that I have - receives a salary of only $3,867 a year. This is lower than the salary received by the technician I referred to earlier and, indeed, much lower than the salary received by the clerk class 5 who has gained an honours graduate degree. One might say that perhaps this should be so to some extent because the clerk class 5 has, after all, gained an honours degree. But then one should look at the engineer who has completed a 4-year course in engineering at a university. Having completed that course at the minimum age of 22 he receives a salary of $4,213 a year. This salary is still very considerably less than that received by the clerk who has done an honours course at a university for the same period of study. 1 wish 1 had more time in which to pass on to the Committee more of this information because in summary I think I can fairly say having examined it in some detail, that it does illustrate a very unsatisfactory situation so far as the salaries of professional engineers are concerned. 
I would now like to come back to the basic point that what one should be looking at is the shortage of engineers in Australia, the length of training, the detailed training that engineers go through and the great and essential value of engineers in the important matter of the industrial development of Australia. If I could leave that aspect of the problem I would like to refer to the second point which I earlier said I wished to make in this debate. I want to refute without any hesitation the allegations made by the honourable member for Hindmarsh that the Prime Minister had exerted pressure on the Public Service Board. Indeed, on this occasion - I think on numerous other occasions as well - the honourable member has said that this pressure has been followed through to pressure on the Arbitration Commission. In the first place I think it is only fair to say that it has been made clear by the Minister for Labour and National Service in terms and over his signature that this is not so. He has completely denied all of the allegations made. But what is more important is (hat when one considers the judgment of the Arbitration Commission following the deci sion of the Public Service Board one sees in articulated clear terms a clear statement by the Commission that it rejects any suggestion that it brought down its decision in the engineers case because of anything that had been said by the Public Service Board. The Commission expressly rejected that suggestion. So I say that I completely disagree - I think the evidence supports this without any shadow of doubt - that there has been, in this case or indeed in any other case, any pressure brought to bear from the Prime Minister or from the Minister for Labour and National Service on the Public Service Board and through it on the Arbitration Commission. The facts just do not bear it out. 
In this debate on the estimates for the Repatriation Department I wish to refer only to one specific matter. Briefly, it is the provision of repatriation benefits of various sorts for British ex-servicemen. This is a matter on which I have had some discussions with the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten),  and it is a matter on which correspondence has passed between us. I must say at the outset that I am very grateful for the consideration which the Minister has given to this matter so far, and if I may say so, I am grateful in anticipation of the consideration which he will give to it in the future. 
Briefly, the history of this specific matter is that originally I wrote to the Minister expressing certain views which had been conveyed to me by a constituent of mine,  Mr R.  Winstanley of Bundoora, in Victoria. The gravamen of those representations from  Mr Winstanley  to myself was to the effect that repatriation benefits should be made available to British ex-servicemen. The Minister replied, and I am sure that he would not mind at all if I were to read to the Committee a short, powerful extract from the letter which he sent to me. He said: 
The- British authorities have pointed out in the past that they would nor consider any arrangement which would result in varying rates of pension and other benefits for their ex-servicemen in other parts of the world. 
The argument which the Minister put forward in that short extract was an argument that could fairly bc described as Government policy, and Government policy which has been held and expressed for some years. Indeed, if my memory serves me correctly, I remember seeing letters in which the former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, expressed a similar view. 
Having considered the view expressed by the Minister, by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and by  Sir Robert  Menzies, I must say that I thought it was a fairly persuasive argument. The British authorities had expressed the view that they would not countenance any system that would give differing benefits to their ex-servicemen who were in the United Kingdom or who had migrated to one of the Commonwealth countries. However, subsequent to that I attended, by invitation, a meeting of the British Sub-branch of the Returned Services League. On that occasion  Mr Winstanley,  the  President, Mr N.  E. Jakes and a number of other members of the organisation had a discussion with me, in the course of which they pui forward some arguments of their own. I must say that they put them forward with reason and moderation, and at the same time with some force. 1 want to express to the Committee the tentative conclusions to which I have come about this matter of the provision of repatriation benefits for British exservicemen. They are views which I expressed to the Minister in a subsequent letter which I. wrote to him. Concisely stated they are as follows: In the first place, it seems that the whole approach of looking at repatriation benefits for British exservicemen on the presumptions that the Minister expressed to me and which previous Prime Ministers have expressed, is, with respect, wrong. I suggest that it is not a proper approach to consider what the British Government expects its expatriates to receive in repatriation benefits or any other form of social service benefit. British migrants settle in Australia. They make their homes here and many of them become Australian citizens, lt seems to be unreal that we should be shackled to any direction or request by the British Government as to what benefits should or should not be received by British migrants, especially those who have become Australian citizens. I would suggest that the proper course is to look at the position of the British exserviceman in Australia to determine what are appropriate benefits to give him, regarding him as an equal for this purpose to an Australian born ex-serviceman. If that is done benefits such as war service homes loans and service pensions should be available to British ex-servicemen as much as they are available to Australian exservicemen. If one uses the basic test I have suggested - that is, that we look at the exserviceman in Australia to see what he should or should not be entitled to in the light of Australian conditions and standards - the proper question to ask is why should British ex-servicemen not be entitled to war service homes loans and war service pension. To put this aspect of the matter concisely, I think it is time we imposed an Australian test for entitlements of exservicemen and not some direction or request from the British Government. 
The next point that should be made is that British ex-servicemen in Australia far from being at an advantage over their compatriots who remained at home are at a positive disadvantage. Firstly, they do not have the benefits of the British free medical and hospital scheme that they would have available to them in the United Kingdom, in their capacity as ex-servicemen. As an ex-serviceman in Australia the British migrant is on the same footing as an Australian who is not an ex-serviceman and who has to participate in the contributory national health scheme. If he were in the United Kingdom he would receive free hospital and medical benefits by virtue of his capacity as an ex-serviceman. Secondly, if he is receiving a British war pension the rate of his pension is not based on the realities of Australian conditions and prices, although he is living under them, but on British conditions and prices.  His  pension is calculated on one set of criteria; he has to spend it in a completely different set of criteria. In particular, devaluation must mean that he is now getting less value for his British pension than he got before devaluation. Yet we do nothing to compensate him for the difference. This seems to highlight the unreality of determining a man's entitlement by reference to circumstance and conditions outside Australia. 
Thirdly, the British ex-serviceman in Australia does not have the advantage of appearing in person before a repatriation body or appeal tribunal. Although the Australian Repatriation Department acts as agent for the British war pension authorities, and although this is obviously a benefit and a useful service, the immigrant does not have the advantage of personal appearance before the body that decides his pension entitlement or the opportunity that goes with that advantage of being able personally to describe his condition and of enabling the tribunal to assess the exserviceman's case by seeing him in person. It would seem to me that the British exserviceman in Australia is at a disadvantage in these respects when he should not be. It could well be said that the Australian Government should at least examine this state of affairs to see whether he can be compensated for that disadvantage. A num ber of reforms which could be considered come to mind. Firstly, the loss suffered as a result of devaluation could be compensated. The loss suffered by the British ex-serviceman has been suffered through no fault of his own and it seems to me that there is at least a prima facie case for some compensation, especially for those British immigrants who have taken out Australian citizenship or otherwise evinced an intention to settle permanently in Australia. Secondly, could not the agency of the Repatriation Department be extended by agreement with the British authorities to use the Australian machinery for the examination and determination of claims in Australia with an undertaking by the British authorities that the decision reached by the Australian body will be final and binding on the British body? That perhaps may be somewhat idealistic but I would suggest with respect that it is worth examining. I would go further and say that such a reform would give the British ex-serviceman the advantage possessed by his compatriot at home of personal appearance before the body that makes the decision on his case. 
However, the 2 principal matters to which I think attention should be given are the provisions of war service home loans and the provision of service pensions. There are numerous reasons that could be advanced in support of these reforms but the main reasons are as follows. Firstly, the Australian soldier fought not only for Australia but also for Britain. Likewise, the British soldier fought not only for Britain but also for Australia. It being a common struggle with common interests and with common sacrifices being made irrespective of the accident of the soldier's birthplace, it would seem logical that there should be common recognition given by the Australian Government to those who now make their home in Australia - one of the countries for which they fought. Secondly, the British ex-serviceman in Australia is taxed to provide finance for, amongst other things, war service homes loans and service pensions. I suggest it is fair that in these circumstances he should reasonably expect the same benefits, or perhaps some of them, as his Australian counterpart. I have already expressed those views to the Minister and I know he is considering them. I know he will not lake any exception to my raising them on this very appropriate occasion because it seems to me that the interests of British exservicemen deserve that these views be expressed and that some recognition should be given to the representations and work of the British Sub-branch of the Returned Services League for what 1, at least, consider to be a desirable end. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. Has his attention been drawn to the 7th October number of Resist', a journal purporting to be the journal of the Draft Resisters Union? If so, does that issue carry a statement purporting to have been made by certain persons including four members of this Parliament and one member of another Parliament, which pledges sanctuary to all young men who defy the National Service Act courageously' as referred to in the article? Has the Attorney-General made any investigations to determine whether the publication of that statement is an offence under Commonwealth law? If so, what investigations have been made? If it appears that an offence has been committed will prosecutions be launched against the persons, including the members of Parliament, who have purportedly made this statement? 
Briefly, I am not at all surprised that the member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  should have misplaced the amendment that he has moved because I would have thought that it was an amendment with which no-one would want to be associated. Indeed, with respect, I find it hard to see how anyone who holds himself out to be a lawyer could support such an amendment. It seems to me quite contrary to all the principles of law and quite contrary to the principle of retrospectivity to which he referred. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory does not seem to appreciate that the rule with respect to retrospectivity is a rule of statutory interpretation. Any legislature can implement a law - can pass a law - having retrospective effect even with respect to criminal offences provided that it makes it clear and beyond any doubt that this is what it intends to do. So it is a principle of statutory interpretation and not some hallowed principle that the honourable member seems to have divined from sitting under an olive tree or by some other means. 
What, after all, is the basis of the principle? This is the main and serious point. Whether it is a principle of statutory interpretation, or whatever it is, the principle is that no-one should be put in jeopardy by way of a prosecution for an offence based on facts which were not an offence at the time they were committed. In this case, facts which would comprise such a prosecution and on which such a prosecution would be based were illegal. They were contrary to the plain terms of a multitude of State statutes and regulations. What Worthing's case is about - and I would have thought this was fairly clear - is that the laws do not apply in specific Commonwealth places. But the State law was extant. It was articulated. Everyone knew what it was and the simple consequence of Worthing's case, I would have thought quite clear, is that State law does not apply in Commonwealth places. But the individual, the poor citizen, who the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory is very concerned should be protected from a prosecution, knew, of course, that the law was there on the State statute books. He knew that in many cases it would have been illegal, irrespective of what the State law said, in cases such as murder or many other criminal offences. It was known what the State law was. The effect of this legislation that is proposed now is to provide mechanical provisions and a workable system so that that law can be enforced. It does not change the State laws. It does not affect crimes that were constituted as crimes by those State laws. 
Finally, there is one further point, and merely on this basis alone one can dispose of the amendment that has been proposed by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory. The amendment seeks to insert in the Bill the following words: 
Provided that no criminal prosecution under the applied provisions of this Act shall be instituted after the date on which it receives the Royal Assent in respect of acts or omissions occurring before it receives that assent. 
Of course it states a lot that is obvious. It is obvious that no prosecution could be instituted before the royal assent was given to the Act. That much is obvious and beyond any doubt. The amendment seeks to cover a case where an act or omission may occur between today, for instance, and the day when the Bill receives the royal assent. 
If the words contained in the amendment were incorporated in the Bill and the Bill became a law with those words incorporated in it, it would mean that a person could commit an offence against the plain terms of a statute, knowing full well that what he was doing was contrary to a State law and knowing full well that he would get away with it completely. He could perform that act with complete immunity until the royal assent was given to the Bill. He could perform continuous acts of the same nature, each of them contrary to the provisions of State laws, and he would know that there would be no way on earth of prosecuting him for breaches of those State laws. So on those grounds, with respect, I think it can fairly be said that this amendment should be rejected out of hand. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What amount has the Commonwealth provided for war service land settlement since 1945. 
How many returned servicemen have been settled on farms since 1945. 
What was their total indebtedness at 30lh June 1970 in (a) principal and (b) interest. 
How many settlers were in arrears in their interest payments at 30th June 1970. 
What was the amount of interest outstanding at that date. 
The speech on censorship to which the House and the nation were treated earlier this afternoon by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  was a gospel of despair. Indeed, it was not dissimilar from the speech delivered on 11th June last year by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  Both these gentlemen contended substantially for . the view that there should be no censorship, at least for adult persons, of matters touching upon sex and literature referring to sexual matters. Indeed, there was some doubt during the speech by the honourable member for Oxley on that occasion whether that was precisely what he was saying, . but in response to a question posted in a gentlemanly fashion at the appropriate time by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  the honourable member for Oxley said: 
Yes, indeed I am. 
He meant that he was contending that there should be no censorship of books or films for adults. He went on to say: 
I believe in this on sexual matters although I have some reservation about violence at this stage. 
That was substantially the view contended for this afternoon by the honourable member for Maribyrnong. It is, as I said, a gospel of despair. It is a view, I venture to suggest, that the community as a whole simply would not accept - the community in Australia at this time or the community of any country at any time that I know of. 
The basic proposition for which I wish to contend is that the obligations of a government in regard to censorship - the assessment of censorship - as outlined by the Minister for Customs and Excise in his statement was a very commendable one. 
The attitude he expressed was an attitude that any responsible government should express in dealing with this very tenuous matter. The matters emphasised by the Minister were the essential elements of a censorship system that should be extracted, refined and emphasised, so that the community can well understand what a government's duty is in this regard. The Minister emphasised that censorship itself as a concept was evil and, with respect to what my distinguished friend and colleague the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  said this afternoon, that is all that the Minister was saying - that as a notion, an unfortunate notion, the idea of censorship is something that would revolt many people as a concept. 
Nevertheless, as the Minister went on to explain and to emphasise with some force and in some detail, communities as a whole demand some degree and some type of censorship. We are here with a mandate or a warrant or a fiat to do no more than to reflect in government action and in legislation what it is that the community as a whole at a particular time consider desirable or necessary for a government to do. Our warrant as our fiat is to do no more or less than that. So, as the Minister said and emphasised, there is a demand by the community for a degree and a type of censorship. 1 want to refer again to the honourable member for Maribyrnong who is now present in the chamber and the point he contended for this afternoon and that is that there should be no censorship. I venture to say that this is something that no community in Australia today or in any other country at any time would accept. I think that a responsible government and a responsible member of Parliament should have regard to this basic proposition when he considers his place  In  the Parliament or the Government's place as a government: What is it that communities want when they send members to this Parliament? What is it that they want from a government when they elect it? As I said, what they want is no more and no less than an adequate and proper reflection in government action and in legislation of those community standards and attitudes that prevail at any given time. The community's standards test was the roost prominent and most substantial aspect of censorship men tioned by the Minister in his very commendable statement; that is, the general attitude that a government has an obligation and should try to assess the community's standards at a given time and adequately reflect them in the censorship law and in the manner in which censorship law is administered. 
This matter is not confined to censorship. 1 suggest that it is a matter that goes beyond censorship but touches on the whole attitude of a government to all legislation and all government action. At the Commonwealth and Empire Law Conference in New Delhi in January this year the the Commonwealth Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  made a very substantial speech on censorship. In that speech he made the very point that a community itself has the right, through its members of Parliament, to indicate to the government its attitudes and views and standards and that it has a reasonable expectation that those standards and attitudes will be recognised by the government and will be translated into legislation and government policy. I think the words used by the Attorney-General on that occasion bear remembering. He said:  lt seems to me that a community organised on democratic lines is entitled to determine for itself, in accordance with its legislative processes, what values it regards as worthy of preservation. It is entitled, through its elected representatives, or through people answerable to those representatives, to define what is harmful to itself as a community. Given the availability of democratic processes, there is no need for an objective definition of what is harmful. The community is entitled to adopt a subjective approach to the problem. It is entitled to make that determination in accordance with criteria it selects for itself: and those criteria are not to be condemned out of hand just because they do not include a requirement that proof of positive harm must be supplied before a particular type of publication is proscribed. 
As I said, those words are particularly appropriate not only to censorship and the attitude a government should take towards censorship but also the attitude that a government should take to all its legislation and all its policy. What a contrast there, is between this sort of attitude espoused by the Minister and the Attorney-General and what we have heard, with respect, from the honourable member from Maribyrnong today and the honourable member for Oxley on an earlier occasion who said that there should be no censorship for adult persons, at least in sexual matters. That, I say, is a warrant or a mandate for a completely unbridled publication of any matter no matter how degraded or obscene. As I said - this is the basic proposition that I think should be put forward in this debate - no community would accept such an abandoned proposition as that. 
I want to commend the Minister for Customs and Excise before I go any further for the attitude that he has taken both in the administrative structure that he has had a part in assembling and in the enforcement of censorship since becoming Minister. The statement he made and the speeches and Press releases he has distributed since becoming Minister are a charter for liberalism in an area where liberalism should be given full flow. I say that that is so in the tests that have been applied, the machinery that has been established and the way in which the whole system has been administered. The Minister has relied on the community standards test which seems to me to be extremely appropriate and the fairest and most proper way of administering a censorship system. He has introduced and encouraged the States to introduce the R or X certificate to indicate those films which are not appropriate for children to see and he has introduced an appeals structure for the censorship of films which goes a long way towards achieving the ideal in film censorship. So I commend the Minister for this attitude. I think he has thrown a good deal of light on to the ancient mysteries and secret rites that used to apply in the past in censorship in this country. 
I want to turn finally to a particularly important matter in the area of literary censorship because it seems to me that one of the most essential aspects of censorship in Australia is the need to attain and keep uniformity of literary censorship throughout the country. That uniformity was achieved to a large degree in 1967 with the written agreement entered into between the Commonwealth and all State governments in that year. The point I contend for here is that that uniformity now is under attack by the South Australian Government. If that Government continues on its present course there will be no hope of any ordered system of censorship in Australia. 
Uniformity, of course, is not always desirable; often it is completely undesir able. There are many areas of government where diversity from one State to another should be encouraged, and there are some activities of government which a State government can perform more efficiently than a central government. But there is no doubt in my mind that there should be uniformity in matters that concern the national identity and matters that colour what the national identity is to be. One of those matters should be the raw material of the culture of the nation, and if there is to be censorship it seems to me that there is a strong case for uniformity throughout Australia. 
Australians are travelling more and are moving more from State to State. What is more important is that Australians are starting to develop a sense of national identity. In that context it Ls absurd for a book to be banned in some States or in one State but to be freely available in other States. The agreement between the Commonwealth and the States in 1967 on the administration of laws relating to blasphemous, indecent and obscene literature was an attempt to achieve some degree of uniformity in literary censorship and until recently that had been substantially achieved. The Commonwealth and State governments said in plain terms in the agreement that their intention was to achieve uniformity. The agreement itself states:   . . it is desirable that arrangements should be made between the Commonwealth and the States so that there will not be inconsistency in the administration of laws relating to blasphemous, indecent or obscene literature. 
South Australia was a party to the agreement. The agreement is signed, in fact, by a certain  Mr Dunstan  who was then the Attorney-General of South Australia. 
Under the terms of the agreement, when there is a book which prima facie has literary, artistic or scientific merit the book can be referred to the National Literature Board of Review for an opinion whether the book is or is not unsuitable for distribution in Australia. That is what happened with the well-known book 'Portnoy's Complaint'. The opinion of the Board was that the book was unsuitable for distribution in Australia. As a result 'Portnoy's Complaint', in effect, was banned. What then were the obligations of the 7 governments which signed the agreement in 1967? Clause 18 of the agreement sets them out. That clause says 2 things, substantially. First, it states that whether a government accepts or adopts the opinion of the Board on a book is a matter within the competence of that government having regard to its own laws. Each government has its own laws and it is up to each government to decide whether they accept and adopt the Board's report - depending on the provisions of its laws, not on any transient whim the government may have from time to time. 
Clause 18 provides also that the relevant State Minister has final responsibility in the circumstances relating to each book. But, it goes on to say that subject to that responsibility:   . . the governments declare their intention and expectation to be that . . . free importation into, and publication and distribution within, Australia will be accorded to a book unless in the opinion of the Board the book is unsuitable for distribution in Australia. 
If those words are to mean anything at all they must mean that in a particular case where the opinion of the Board is that a book is unsuitable for distribution in Australia, the intention and expectation of the governments is that the book will not have free importation into Australia and will not have publication and distribution within Australia. There is one very good reason why the agreement does mean that; if it does not, the agreement is useless. It is of no use getting the opinion of the Board if it can be ignored by one government or another. That would simply allow the very inconsistency that all the governments solemnly undertook to avoid. 
Portnoy's Complaint' was a particular case. I am not commenting one way or another about the book itself; indeed, I do not know what I would decide if I had to make the decision about that book. But the Board decided that it was unsuitable for distribution in Australia. In their agreement the governments have said that in such a case their intention and expectation was that free importation into Australia and publication and distribution in Australia would not be accorded to it. But the Government of South Australia has allowed it to be published and distributed in South Australia. The action of the South Australian Government is a breach of the spirit of the legislation, if not of the letter. The spirit of the agreement is clearly that if the National Literature 
Board of Review forms the opinion that a book is unsuitable for distribution in Australia, a State government will not allow it to be published and distributed within that State. That was the opinion that the Board formed about 'Portnoy's Complaint', but despite that the Government of South Australia has allowed the book to be published and distributed within South Australia. That is, as I have said, a breach of the spirit of the agreement and I would suggest, and indeed warn so far as I can, that if the South Australian Government continues in this attitude the whole system of uniform censorship, which was heralded when it was introduced, is in jeopardy. 
In view of the fact that the distinguished Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  spoke on this measure for only approximately 7 minutes perhaps very little calls for reply from me. As the Leader of the Opposition said, it is a comparatively small measure which merely increases the number of judges who may be appointed to the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court. However, the significant matter is the reference in the second reading speech of the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  to the fact that the need for this Bill arose from the Government's decision to establish a law reform commission for the Australian Capital Territory. The House will recall that the announcement of this decision was made by the AttorneyGeneral on 19th May 1970. That was a very significant step in the direction of the establishment of law reform in the Territory. Certainly so far as I was aware both the Attorney-General and the Government were fairly substantially commended for the Attorney-General's announcement on that date. 
Of course, the law reform commission will not have all-embracing jurisdiction so far as law reform is concerned, and in particular the Attorney-General specified in his statement on 19th May 1970 that the commission would not be concerned with what were referred to as 'matters which involved significant policy decisions'. Those matters will remain in the general departmental analysis and examination of law reform. The machinery that has been in operation for some years has already produced a considerable number of reforms and it seems to be working fairly well. Nevertheless the fact remains - this was acknowledged by the Attorney-General when he announced the creation of the commission to the House last year - that many areas of law could well be examined very closely by a body such as the proposed law reform commission. As I say, the significant aspect of the measure is the fact that it is made necessary by the Commonwealth's declared intention to establish such a commission and the fact that it will have as its  chairman  a judge of the court. 
Having said that, it remains for me to refer only to the comments made by the Leader of the Opposition with respect to the establishment of a Commonwealth superior court which was proposed at one stage. My impression of this proposal was very favourable for some time. Being a legal practitioner before I came into this House I had occasion to examine public comment and discussion on the proposed Commonwealth superior court. I greeted with a great deal of approval some of the earlier proposals to establish that Court. 1 suppose it is an indication of the broadmindedness of those who comprise my profession that I have had some further and second thoughts. My present view, although I do not guarantee not to change it if subsequently contrary evidence comes before me, is that the establishment of a Commonwealth superior court would be perhaps a further fragmentation of the judicial structure throughout Australia and that such a fragmentation would not by any means be desirable. 
As honourable members would be aware, there is a very wide-ranging structure of courts in Australia. There are the Commonwealth or Federal courts, as one might refer to them, starting with the High Court and the Bankruptcy Court. Then, of course, there is the whole range of State supreme courts, county courts, local courts of petty session and so on. We have already a fairly fragmented judicial structure. My view at the moment is that the establishment of a superior court would be a further fragmentation of that judicial structure, lt is very easy to say: 'Well, yes, it would be desirable to have this Commonwealth court to take over a number of areas of federal judicial power.' But when one looks nl the situation in more detail, particularly from the point of view of a legal practitioner, one sees that it is not necessarily a conclusively desirable proposal. 
I thought that one particular oversight in the measure as it was proposed initially related to matrimonial causes. If the Commonwealth superior court had been established within the framework proposed it would not. on my understanding of it, have concerned itself with matrimonial causes. The State supreme courts vested with Federal jurisdiction would have continued io be concerned with those causes and would have to continue to deal with those matters on circuit, as they do now, and even travel to provincial cities in the States. However, wilh other Federal matters falling within the jurisdiction of the proposed superior court, one might find the rather ridiculous situation where both the State supreme court and the Commonwealth superior court were sitting at the same far-flung place perhaps on the same day but dealing with different matters. That is just an example of what might tend to bring about a further fragmentation of the judicial structure as it is in Australia. So one need not automatically accept, I say with respect, the rather glib assertion made by the Leader of the Opposition on this occasion and on other occasions that a Commonwealth superior court is conclusively desirable; but it is certainly a proposal that one should continue to look at with a fresh mind. The Attorney-General has reflected by his own attitude towards the creation of the proposed law reform commission that he will continue to look at this matter and other related matters. 
As I say, 1 do not think it is necessary for me to go any further than to say merely that it is very desirable that the law reform commission should be established in the terms that have been outlined by the Attorney-General. This measure is made necessary by the proposal to have a judge of the Suprme Court of the Australian Capital Territory as  chairman  of that commission. One of the criticisms that has been made in relation to the establishment of the commission is that a judge will be the  chairman  of it. When one looks at the structure of law reform commissions both here and overseas I think one can go so far as to say that a judge is frequently the  chairman  of such commissions. I believe that it is very appropriate that a judge should be the  chairman  of this proposed commission. 
Other criticisms have been made about this proposed commission, as they have been made about other law reform commissions. One criticism is that the commission may concern itself only with those matters referred to it by the AttorneyGeneral. Indeed, the proposed ordinance to establish the commission provides that the reference to the commission must be made by the Attorney-General. But it is significant to recall in considering this aspect that the commission itself may suggest to the Attorney-General that he make a reference on a particular matter worthy of examination. As a result of that, the 
Attorney-General may well refer that matter to the commission for examination. That situation has existed in New South Wales for some years. Comments have been made, and I understand them to be correct, that that system has worked fairly well. 
One must rely on the Attorney-General, on the Government and on the advice given to the Attorney-General, to ensure that this system works. But there is power for the Attorney-General to refer matters to the law reform commission. That power can be exercised at the prompting or suggestion of the commission itself. It could also be exercised at the suggestion of interested parties - the legal profession and other people concerned with the administration of the law. It would seem to me to be a workable proposal and is one that I personally welcome. 
The first thing that I wish to do in this very short speech on the Criminology Research Bill is what my colleague, the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen),  did at the beginning of his speech - this is, to congratulate the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  My own assessment of his speech is that it was quite excellent, lt was a very sustained and substantial contribution to the debate. The honourable member, no doubt due to an excess of modesty, confined himself in the number of the matters that he could have mentioned. I know that, because a prison of substantial size is located in his electorate, the honourable member does come in contact with the problem that this legislation seeks to solve. I wish to do no more at this stage than to congratulate him on the substantial and original contribution that he made to the debate. 
Secondly I wish to state shortly and simply - 1 would have thought that some of the speeches in this debate could have been confined to this simple proposition - that this legislation recognises a serious need in the community and sets out to meet that need. I would have thought that this was a worthy measure indeed. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  seemed to discern in his comments, with some almost Delphic perception, that crime was on the increase in Australia and that there were serious problems associated with the enforcement of law and order, with the police force, with shortages of money and so on. But, of course, these are the very problems that the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  identified in his second reading speech. No great credit . is due to one for merely repeating what the AttorneyGeneral has stated is all too obvious. It is because the increase in crime is so obvious and the instruments that we have to solve the problems of crime are so inadequate that this legislation has been brought forward. 
I congratulate the Government unequivocally on introducing this legislation and on taking positive steps to establish the Australian Institute of Criminology, the Criminology Research Council and the Criminology Research Fund. Having made those congratulatory and probably kind remarks - I think it is fair to describe them that way, and no doubt the AttorneyGeneral agrees - may I turn to a less fortunate aspect of the debate. This is the only other thing that I wish to mention. I refer to the opening remarks of the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun),  who preceded me. The honourable member, as the House will recall, indicated in the first place that this measure was welcome but secondly, that it was an extraordinary departure from the normal Libera] Party or Country Party tradition relating to law and crime. I cannot quote him word for word, but the substance of what he said was that the traditional non-Labor attitude to this type of problem is to clamp down, to ensure that the law is enforced, to impose harsh penalties, and so on. 
As I said, this type of legislation is to encourage research into the real problems of crime - why crime is committed and how best to deal with criminals. This is a departure from tradition. If I identified some initiative coining from the Opposition that I thought was worthwhile being a fairly generous person I would be able to recognise that it was worthwhile and say so. Of course, I cannot agree with all of the proposals put forward by the Opposition. Indeed, there are comparatively few with which I can agree. But when a desirable recommendation conies forward from the Opposition I would certainly do my best to agree with it if I thought it were in the best interests of the people. 
I would have thought that the proper course to be taken by the honourable member for Kingston would be for him to say purely and simply: 'There is a problem that has to be identified by the Government. lt is a problem that can be met by establishing the proper machinery. This legislation establishes that machinery and the Government is to be commended for introducing it.' As I say, it is rather unfortunate that the honourable member for Kingston should have said that it is quite unique, quite unusual, for the LiberalCountry Party Government to embark upon a measure of this type. Some Opposition members seem to hold the unfortunate view that they have a prerogative or exclusive franchise on social reform measures - on those measures that deal with people in the community who are less fortunate than ourselves and with criminal reform which is the example before us tonight. I utterly reject that view. 1 think it is very unfortunate that the honourable member for Kingston should have put it forward. 
The basic situation so far as this legislation is concerned is clear and everyone on this side of the House supports it. lt is that there is a considerable problem in relation to those who are involved in crime and in relation to the increase in crime, and that as affluence increases apparently so does the crime rate. These are the problems. They are very serious problems that go to the whole root of our society. The legislation is a substantial attempt to answer some of these questions. I have no hesitation in giving my wholehearted support to the legislation and to the very commendable spirit behind it. 
Has the Minister for Education and Science seen claims made in the 'Education Newsletter of the Australian Union of Students' that Aboriginals suffered from glaring educational inequalities and, in particular, that whereas one person in every  150  non-Aboriginals attended university, only one person in every  14,000  Aboriginals did so? What steps is the Government taking to encourage higher education for Aboriginals and to provide educational opportunities for them? 
in the course of his speech invited all honourable members to analyse for themselves and to consider properly whether, taking into account all the issues in this matter, to support the motion for the disallowance of the ordinances. Doing that and readily subscribing to that invitation from the honourable member for Reid, I ask myself what is the principle that a member of this House should operate upon in determining for himself whether he should vote for the disallowance of these ordinances, and I should have thought it was fairly clear in view of the fact that the motion came from the Opposition. The onus is on the Opposition, which moved the motion, to substantiate it. The only obligation on any member on this side of the House is to concern himself with those matters that have been raised by the Opposition in support of the motion for disallowance. I have listened to this entire debate and to the arguments that have been put forward by the honourable member for Reid. I have read widely of the epiphanies of the Land Value Research Group and the Henry George League. I have read the Canberra Times' until, frankly, I am inclined to turn to some other journal for entertainment. I have examined the matter as closely as I can, and I have no hesitation in saying that I will be voting against the disallowance of these ordinances. 
There is an obligation on us only to analyse and reject, if it is. appropriate, the arguments that were raised by the Opposition in support of the motion. The first and, 1 would have thought, the only substantive point that the honourable member for Reid made was the basic proposition that the land belongs to the people of Australia; that the benefits of the land are to be given across the board to the people of Australia and not solely to the people of Canberra; that the benefits are to be determined by the Commonwealth and that the benefits are to be distributed over the entire nation. There are 2 false propositions involved in what has been put forward by the honourable member for Reid. The lie is given to what he said by these simple facts: Firstly, the land has not been given away to anyone, and secondly, it cannot be said, when one looks fairly at what has happened under the administration of this  system, that  benefits of substantial proportions have been given to commercial leaseholders. 
This is the gravamen, of the argument that was put forward . by the honourable member for Reid and the argument that was repeated by subsequent Opposition speakers, that the Government is in some way lining the pockets of the rich leaseholders in Canberra. That is not so. I suggest that this is supported if one looks at particular blocks of land and sees what has happened to them under the new system that is introduced by these ordinances. One could look at one block of land which is referred to as block 1 in section 51 in the city and one can see that under the old system, the system that previously prevailed, the leaseholder paid S2.L643 per annum as land rent and rates. That was the combined sum that he paid under the old system whereby he paid both rent and rates. Under the new system, however, he pays $46,731 per annum, an increase of over $25,000. It escapes me how it can be said that the effect of this ordinance is that it lines the pocket of the rich leaseholder when here is at least one whose payments out to the Commonwealth as a result of the change of the ordnance have doubled. We can look at another block which is described as block 2 section 15 in the city. Here, under the old system the leaseholder paid some $3,360 a year, again payments which were both land and rates. He now pays under the new ordinance $14,684, an increase of $1 1,000. He also paid a premium of over $17,000 when he acquired the lease. 
I fail to see. when one looks at particular cases like that, how it can be said that there is an undue balance of benefit being given to commercial leaseholders in this city as a result of the new ordinance. One could cite many other cases. In fairness, one should say that there are cases where the opposite exists, where there is a benefit given, where the new rates levied on the particular piece of land are in fact lower than the amount previously paid as a combination of land and rates. But I make the proposition, and I submit it can be supported cm the figures - indeed is - that when one looks at particular cases one cannot fairly say that the effect of the ordinance is to give this tremendous benefit to the big industrialists, as the honourable member for Reid referred to them. So there are the 2 points: Firstly, a basic simple legal and factual proposition that the land is not given to anyone under the new ordinance, and secondly, this substantial benefit that has been alleged does not exist. 
One can look at it the other way, and again I want to confine myself to particular cases. One can look at a comparison between, for instance, 2 commercial properties, compare what was paid under the old system with what will be paid under the new system and see exactly where the profiteering occurred under the old system. I take 2 blocks of land which have a comparable value. There is a difference of only $4,000 between them. One is valued at $47,000 and the other at $43,000. Under the old system, a combination of rents and rates, the outgoing on one block was $1,722. On the other block - and I emphasise again that it was of almost identical value - the outgoings were not $1,722 but $494. 
Now, it is said that the profiteering, the opportunity for the fast buck, comes under the new ordinance but I suggest that there was plenty of opportunity to make a fast buck - plenty of opportunity for profiteering - under the system that this Government is changing. I would like to know, for instance, whether the shopkeeper who rented that property which paid out in rates and rents only $494 decreased his prices to make up for the tremendous bonus he was getting in his reduced outgoings. I would like to know whether he made some concession to the good people of Canberra because he was paying only $494 and his neighbour was paying over $1,700. I venture to suggest, not because I am necessarily cynical but mainly because I believe it would not happen as a matter of business practice, that that gentleman who paid the lower amount was not making the concession. It is this sort of inconsistency between 2 blocks of land where the values are almost identical and where the outgoings are so discrepant that these ordinances change. This is a system under which comparable outgoings are paid where blocks of land have comparable values. It is the sort of inequity that previously existed which is remedied and removed by the present ordinances. 
The honourable member for Reid again raised this canard of the 5c per annum rent if and when demanded as if he believed, in some deluded way, that this destroyed the leasehold system. The honourable member for Reid was not the only one who raised this argument. The fact is that any first year law student could tell the honourable member for Reid that the amount of the rent is quite irrelevant. Indeed, the requirement of payment of rent of any sort or of any amount is quite irrelevant. One can read in any basic legal textbook that it does not matter at all whether rent is paid or not when one is trying to determine whether there is a lease or not. The land is still leasehold. It belongs to the Crown. It cannot be alienated, at least without an amendment to the Seat of Government (Administration) Act. ft is clear that no such amendment has been made. No matter what the Government tried to do with these ordinances it could not, in view of the existence of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act, destroy the leasehold system and establish the freehold system that it is alleged has been established here. 
Then it is said by the honourable member for Reid and some other speakers that the Government is surrendering the right that it had- to recover rent from the land. This is a canard which was exposed quite adequately by the 2 Ministers who have previously taken part in the debate. The Government cannot take away that right from itself, as I said, without a change in the substantive law that has been on the statute book for a considerable period. It has been said, again as one of the very few arguments that in all honesty deserve to be replied to, that there should be an inquiry. It seems to me, in the limited time that I have been in this place, that the plea for an inquiry or a royal commission is made either when something is embarrassing and there is no answer to it in logic, when the Opposition cannot understand it. If it is complicated and involved then the Opposition wants to refer it to a royal commission. There have been inquiries on this matter in this Territory for many years. There have been examinations and analyses made by the Department of the Interior and I would have thought that if there were anything to be discerned by any inquiry about this matter it would have been discerned already. 
I can see no advantage in an inquiry when there is a pressing need for reform at this time and not some 12 months or 2 years off when a royal commission or inquiry might bring in its decision. The time for reform is now. Let members of the Opposition who speak in support of the disallowance of these ordinances not forget that the rates have been changed. The rates have been increased and if the ordinances are disallowed the rates remain the same. They cannot be changed. But the rent, of course, is the old rent that was paid under the previous ordinances. I wonder whether that point has been seriously considered by the Opposition. I wonder whether they realise the embarrassment it would cause to the ordinary people of Canberra on behalf of whom they speak. It would be a situation which would penalise those people and which I hope this House would not countenance. There are many other matters that could be referred to but, in all frankness, the only points of substance made have been those raised by the honourable member for Reid. J think that I have replied to them and I would reject without any hesitation at all this rather pretentious motion for disallowance of the ordinances. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Army. I refer the Minister to his Press statement last year in which he announced the establishment of an Army committee to examine the reorganisation of the Army. In that statement the Minister will recall that he indicated that he expected the committee to make its report to him in approximately March or April of this year. I ask: Has he received the report? If so, what progress has been made in his deliberations? 
 Mr Speaker,  in this resumed debate on the Public Order (Protection of Persons and Property) Bill 1971 the first thing I wish to do is to join with those honourable members who have congratulated the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  on his maiden speech. It was indeed a very thoughtful and sustained analysis of the problems with which this legislation is concerned. Its significance as a contribution to the debate is amply shown by the fact that honourable members who spoke after him clearly felt obliged to take up and discuss the thesis that the honourable member for Chisholm developed in his speech. 1 wish him well for his future as a member of this House. 
The speeches that have been made in this debate by Opposition members have at least made clear both the fact that they oppose the Bill and the grounds on which they oppose it. It is said that it is an unnecessary Bill and that the law already covers the offences created by the Bill, although it is significant to note in passing that the honourable member for Lalor (Df J. F. Cairns) in the personal explanation he has just made to the House indicated that there was at least one set of circumstances that was not yet an offence but which would be an offence when this Bill was passed. But Opposition members say that the law already covers the offences created by the Bill, that the Bill is repressive and imposes restrictions on individual liberty that are quite unwarranted and that it attempts to prevent people from exercising their basic rights. All of these allegations are untrue, and it can be shown quite clearly that they are untrue. All that Opposition members have to do is to read the Bill and read the second reading speech of the former Attorney-General. Instead of imagining what the Bill says and fulminating against it, they should read the clauses of the Bill, read the limitations that it does impose on conduct that should be condemned and practices that should be penalised and read the qualifications and the exemptions that are written into the Bill to protect people charged with offences under the Bill, and they will see that the Bill is not restrictive or oppressive and that it does not impose unjustified limitations on the exercise of people's liberties and rights. 
Indeed, my attitude to the debate so far is that it is quite clear that the Opposition's attitude has been far too glib and superficial. I will take one example in passing. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  chided the Government with some force for not having ratified the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and he said that this was certainly something that the Australian Government should do. This being a particularly glib and superficial statement, I had inquiries made concerning the situation with this United Nations Covenant and which countries, if any, had ratified it. I obtained a list of the 8 countries that have ratified the covenant. The Covenant is one of 2 Covenants, the other being the Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. The list of those countries that have ratified the Covenant is indeed a dazzling one. I do not know whether these countries are the ones to which the Leader of the Opposition is continually referring as being comparable countries on which Australia should base its policies and attitudes. But the list is particularly dazzling, lt consists of Bulgaria, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Ecuador, Libya, Syria and Uruguay. They are the countries which have ratified this United Nations Covenant, and the Leader of the Opposition suggests that Australia should do likewise. As the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  says, perhaps the Leader of the Opposition wants us to get with the strength. I suppose it is quite all right for countries that practise slavery and have completely atavistic political and social systems blindly to enter into a United Nations convention, to ratify it blindly irrespective of whether they ever intend to put it into practice. I suppose that is all right. But fortunately we do not live in a country like that. Fortunately we live in a country where the Government will not ratify a United Nations covenant or resolution until it is satisfied, first of all, that all the ramifications on a Federal and State basis have been examined and looked at very thoroughly and, secondly, that it is a covenant or resolution that can be put into practice. It is pointless to ratify a covenant or resolution like that when there is no chance of putting it into practice. 
Let me deal first of all with the legal point involved, the allegation that the Bill is unnecessary because the law already provides for the offences that the Bill creates and that all that is needed is to enforce the laws that are already on the statute books. The Leader of the Opposition in his speech said that this was certainly his view. He said: 
The offences are already covered by the law. The laws are quite firm. The penalties are quite heavy. They have not been called in aid. 
Again I ask Opposition members to read the Bill and the second reading speech of the former Attorney-General. If they do that they will see that there is a need for this Bil] and that the law is not now in such a condition that they can say with any authority at all that this Bill is unnecessary. The Bill is necessary because there are many gaps in the law that should be filled; there are many inconsistencies that should be rectified; there are many penalties that should be made uniform throughout Australia so far as the Commonwealth has the power to do that; and in many cases there are penalties that should be made less harsh than they now are. 
Why then has this Bill been introduced? The former Attorney-General in his second reading speech stated clearly and simply why the Bill was necessary. He said:   . . certain events have caused attention to be focussed upon the field of law with which the Bill is concerned. I do not intend to convey that matters have got out of hand or that situations have arisen, either in the mainland Territories or elsewhere, that require the enactment of repressive measures. That is not the purpose of the present Bill. But incidents have occurred that have been disturbing and that have caused the Government to undertake an examination of the existing law - to look at its content and its suitability to present-day conditions. The former AttorneyGeneral went on to say: The Government has decided that it should undertake the task of balancing the various interests, of making an effort to achieve a synthesis of freedom and order, as the objective has been described, in a suitable modern statute covering, but expressly limited to, matters within the area of Commonwealth legislative responsibility. 
That is the way the former Attorney-General Genera] explained the necessity for this Bill. It is only a simple basic point that has to be grasped to see why this Bill is necessary. The Commonwealth has a domestic obligation to maintain public order in its own Territories and on its own property and also has an international obligation to protect members of diplomatic and consular staffs and representatives of international organisations who are in Australia, and also to protect their property. 
Take Commonwealth premises themselves. The law that operates on those premises in the States is State law. It is State law applied in many cases by an Act of this Parliament entitled the Commonwealth Places (Application of Laws) Act. That legislation was not opposed by the Opposition when it passed through this Parliament. It was passed because in the absence of such an Act there was a possibility that there was no law which applied on Commonwealth property in the States. Those State laws applying to Commonwealth premises create offences and impose penalties when those offences are committed. But what types of penalties are provided for by those State laws? Take, as one example, unlawful assembly on Commonwealth property that exists in one State or another. Under the present law if that offence is committed on Commonwealth property in Queensland the maximum penalty is imprisonment for 1 year. If the offence is committed in Tasmana the maximum penalty is an unlimited fine or 21 years imprisonment.  If  it is committed in South Australia the maximum penalty is an unlimited fine or unlimited imprisonment in the discretion of the court. It is quite a ridiculous situation when for the same offence committed on Commonwealth property in any of the States there is such a vast disparity as this in the penalties that can be imposed. 
Surely it is sensible and surely it is reasonable that the Government should take steps to ensure that common and uniform laws and penalties exist throughout Australia so far as the Commonwealth is concerned for identical offences committed on Commonwealth property no matter in which State the property happens to be. Uniformity is not always desirable or necessary but where there is the common factor of Commonwealth property in one State or another, that is a connecting factor which does justify having uniform substantive laws and uniform penalties. One could go on and look at all of the offences with which this Bill is concerned and say of each and every one of them that there is great disparity between the penalties that can be imposed under the different State laws that now operate on Commonwealth premises in the States. There is not one single offence of the type of offences with which this Bill is concerned where the penalties are uniform throughout the whole of Australia. It is ludicrous for the Opposition to say that there is no need for this legislation when such glaring disparities in penalties under the existing law stare one in the face. 
But it is not just a matter of penalties, it is a matter of substantive law also. Just take two examples, one of which I have already referred to in passing. The honourable member for Lalor in his personal explanation to the House tonight described certain events that had occurred in Melbourne with a certain heroic glee as if he was very proud he had taken part in them, and he indicated that what had happened was not an offence and would not be an offence until this Bill was passed. That is one example certainly of a new substantive law that is apparently necessary and from what the honourable member for Lalor said it is necessary, and is certainly a new law that will be introduced in this Bill. Secondly, the former Attorney-General indicated in his second reading speech that there is no law except in New South Wales and Victoria under recent amendments to the law there, to cover the offence known popularly as a sit-in. I would have thought the events of the last few days in Melbourne indicate that there is a need for such a law. Surely this type of conduct should be an offence and surely the law should adequately cover that type of situation so that it can be stopped. 
The Leader of the Opposition apparently thinks so himself. In his speech on this Bill he said that contemptible and cowardly invasions of Commonwealth premises should be condemned. He added: 
The people who participated in those invasions, those threats, those demonstrations, those sit-ins should have been brought to trial. 
I entirely agree with the Leader of the Opposition and I suggest that he convey that advice to his colleague, the honourable member for Lalor. Indeed, the Leader of the Opposition goes much further than the Bill goes because he apparently, judging from what he said, believes that demonstrations themselves should be outlawed. 
He used the words specifically and in that sense. I would remind the House, however, that there is nothing against demonstrations in this Bill unless the demonstrations are accompanied by physical violence, damage to property or the impending threat of violence or damage to property. Demonstrations themselves, and, indeed, any expression of dissent by any means other than using violence or in a situation where violence is impending are lawful and remain lawful after this Bill is passed. 
But there is the other aspect of the archaic and crusty law that presently governs public order. 1 suggest there is a very strong case for suggesting that it should be overhauled. It is probably touching to some that we should still have on our statute books ancient statutes such as the Riots and Tumults Suppression Act of 1393. I suppose it is touching to some that there are offences on the books that can bc dealt with by indefinite imprisonment or having to surrender one's armour to the King, and laws that are articulated half in French and half in ancient English. It is very interesting but it is quite irrelevant to our present position and I think that reason alone is sufficient justification for this legislation being passed. 
I want to turn to the other aspect. 1 have already said there are two obligations on a Government, one a domestic obligation and the other an international obligation. The other area of the Bill which deals with the protection of diplomatic and consular personnel and property is also necessary and should be welcomed. Honourable members should look at the catalogue of attacks on diplomatic and consular property in Australia, the bombings and the arson that are listed in the answer given on 7th April to a question asked by the Leader of the Opposition. That catalogue is enough by itself to justify specific laws to prevent such outrages. I would have thought there was an obvious need for legislation to cover that type of activity, legislation which refers specifically to that type of activity, and I would have thought there would be no opposition to it. 
Australia has this international obligation. It has it because it is a party to the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. That Convention was ratified by the Diplomatic Privileges and Immunities 
Act 1967. Article 22 of that treaty imposes on Australia a special duty to take all appropriate steps to protect the premises of the diplomatic missions established in Australia against any intrusion or damage and to prevent any disturbance of the peace of the mission or impairment of its dignity. Other articles in that Convention impose similar obligations on this Government. I would have thought it is clear beyond any doubt that when a government enters into a convention which is subsequently ratified, and when that convention states that there is a duty on the Government to take particular steps, then the Government has failed in that obligation unless it ensures that its own laws are in order, unless it ensures that it has laws which specifically deal with the matters it is bound by the convention to take account of, and unless it ensures this particular case that there are laws which refer to attacks on diplomatic and consular property and diplomatic and consular personnel. I would have thought that this is such a clear case that 1 am surprised the Opposition has indicated it is opposed to that part of the legislation too. 
It has been alleged in a more general way that this Bill stifles dissent, that if stamps out demonstrations, that it is restrictive and reactionary. The honourable member for Lalor says we live in a police state in Australia and that this Bill is one more nail in the coffin of democracy driven by a police state government. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has said, and it is a particularly rash observation, that this Bill reverses the onus of proof in that there is some onus placed  on  an accused person to prove his innocence. That is ridiculous. One has only to look at the Bill to see that there is nothing in it which reverses the normal onus on a prosecution to prove its case. The prosecution makes the allegation and it has to prove it. The prosecution has to prove it by evidence. The defendant can rebut the case by evidence of his own. Eventually the court makes its decision. I repeat - and it is important - that the onus is on the prosecution to prove its case. If there  is  any doubt, under the general law, which is not touched by this Act, the benefit of the doubt is still given to the defendant - the accused. 
The Bill does not stifle dissent. It does not affect the right to demonstrate. In respect of any offence that it may create it is left to the courts to decide whether the accused is guilty. Let me illustrate that by one example. The honourable member for Lalor took particular exception to that clause of the Bill referring to the assessment by a police sergeant that violence might bc about to occur. I would suggest that honourable members look particularly at this clause to see what offence it does create. Certainly the policeman may have in his mind a reasonable apprehension that violence is about to occur, but what goes to the court is, firstly, whether the policeman had that belief and, secondly, whether it was a reasonable belief. I repeat that this is a particular example which illustrates the point that it is always open for the accused - whether it is the honourable member for Lalor or anyone else - to give evidence on oath in court to show that the policeman did not have that belief or that it was an unreasonable belief. 
Apparently Opposition members do not like the courts. They do not like cases such as this being left to the courts to decide. I suggest, without saying it specifically, it is fairly clear why they do not like cases such as this being left to the courts. The honourable member for Wills said that the little man does not have a chance. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  said that the police are usually telling lies and that they regard their obligation to prove a case as a game; they give evidence irrespective of whether they believe it is true. Those are serious and absurd allegations. From a purely practical legal level, any practitioner knows that one cannot make assumptions such as that, lt is interesting that the case cited by the honourable member for Wills and the case cited by the honourable member for Prospect had a common feature. The common feature was that the accused was acquitted. Those cases were put to show that one could not trust the courts. The cases were raised as illustrations. In both cases the accused was believed and was acquitted. They are extraordinary illustrations to use in support of the outrageous proposition made by those 2 honourable members. 
This is reasonable legislation. I return to where I started. The honourable member for Chisholm emphasised that what had to be sought was a balance between freedom and necessary restraints. I would suggest that this Bill eminently maintains that balance. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. He will recall that yesterday the Leader of the Opposition, in the course of one of his shorter questions on the China issue, asserted that the credentials of the Australian Ambassador to Taipeh contained the statement that the Republic of China was the legitimate and actual government of all and every China. The Leader of the Opposition went on to assert that the Government thereby officially maintained that Taiwan China, as he referred to it on that occasion, was responsible not only for the- 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Has the Treasurer seen reports of a decision handed down by the Full High Court of Australia last Friday in a taxation case in which the Commissioner of Taxation appealed against a decision in what is known as the Casuarina case and in which the company concerned was successful in the appeal? If so, will the Treasurer indicate whether or not the decision raises difficulties for the Government in maintaining the tax base, particularly so far as company tax is concerned? Does the Government have any intention to introduce amending legislation to rectify the situation disclosed by this decision of the High Court? 
 The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  in his interesting address confined himself, as I understood it, to the States Grants (Technical Training) Bill. It is not that Bill to which I address some remarks, but rather to the States Grants (Pre-School Teachers Colleges) Bill, a particularly important piece of legislation. There are 2 propositions that should be made at the outset and which I think most honourable member would agree should be considered before one goes on to look at the details of this matter. The first of these 2 propositions is the great importance of pre-school education today and, following from that, the great importance, as the Commonwealth has already recognised, of providing adequate facilities for the training of pre-school teachers. I think that the importance of pre-school education if of comparatively recent recognition insofar as it does condition a child's future attitudes and those foundations that he acquires in his early years, particularly between the ages of  3  years and 5 years, which are so important 
It is significant, therefore, that at this time there should be this piece of legislation and the earlier Act which was passed in 1968 relating to a singularly important part of pre-school education. 
It is also significant that the Commonwealth itself should realise, as 1 believe it does, the overwhelming importance of preschool education in a civilised society such as Australia's. The Commonwealth's role in this part of education and in other aspects of education is one which has developed very much over recent years and is not a role which the Commonwealth has exercised for a very long period of time. This  is  mainly because of the constitutional situation. Whereas there are certain specific matters which are the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government, education by and large is still the constitutional responsibility of the State governments. But, nevertheless, the Commonwealth has had a role to play and has been taking very valuable steps in education over the years. 
I noted in a book entitled 'Australia Since Federation' by Professor Fred Alexander, which was published in 1969, a particularly interesting exchange between a former Prime Minister,  Mr Chifley,  and one of his senior advisers. It indicates the Commonwealth's attitude to education at that time. The then Prime Minister's adviser was suggesting to  Mr Chifley  that the Commonwealth should go into a wider area of education, and he advanced this argument with some force. This book describes the exchange as follows: 
No',  said  Chifley,  'I'd  like to keep out of education - it has special difficulties for us: it's mixed up with religion, aid to denominational schools and all that. Besides, the Constitution leaves education as  a  State function.* 'But,' objected the adviser, 'you're already subsidising pre-school centres and the universities directly.' 'Ah,' concluded Chifley, with  a  broad grin, 'that's different - they're for kids before they've got souls and after they've lost 'em.' 
Indeed, that is a comment with which some may agree, but it certainly indicates very clearly the Commonwealth's attitude at that time. However, the situation has changed. The Commonwealth's attitude over recent years has been to look at the broad structure of education across the whole nation and to seek to identify those areas in which the Commonwealth can be of assistance, bearing in mind that the primary obligation for education is with the States and bearing in mind also that the Commonwealth's role should be to assist the States in their particular role. As I say, the Commonwealth has made a substantial contribution in many fields of education, and the particular one with which we are concerned now, pre-school teachers training colleges, is one of the areas in which the Commonwealth has been assisting the States. 
The second of these basic principles that really should be understood is the role that is being played by voluntary organisations in pre-school education across Australia. The State Governments and local authorities, of course, make a very substantial contribution to pre-school education in Australia, but I suggest that it is above all the voluntary organisations which are the backbone in this area of educational activity. Indeed, it is fair to say that the situation of pre-school education in Australia could not be as strong as it is without the very valuable work that is done by the many public spirited people who have taken part in the work of those voluntary organisations. Again it is significant to note that the Commonwealth has recognised and appreciated the valuable work done by such voluntary organisations in the field of pre-school education. When a former Minister for Education and Science introduced the principal Bill, the States Grants (Pre-School Teachers Colleges) Bill 1968, he had this to say: 
Finally,  I  should like to express the Government's respect and admiration of the work of the voluntary organisations in the pre-school field, There is a tradition throughout Australia of community involvement in this area of education, not only of parents interested in having a kindergarten available for their own children but also of many men and women giving freely time and money so that kindergartens are available in areas where need is great. From the former arises a most useful awareness in the minds of parents of many aspects of their children's education, an awareness which may be maintained throughout the years of schooling. The latter is a most useful form of community service. 
That is what the Minister said on that occasion and it indicates that the Commonwealth has very commendably recognised the work done by voluntary organisations in the pre-school education field and is further assisting them. One of these organisations which has taken a very important pan in pre-school education in Australia is the Australian Pre-school Association. The work of this Association has likewise been recognised by the Commonwealth insofar as the Commonwealth has been making grants to it so that it might carry on its work. For instance, the grant made to the Association in 1969-70 was $14,800 and as additional provision has been made by the Commonwealth to enable the Association to carry, out particular research projects in the field of preschool education. 
The branch of that Association with which I have had some contact due to the Association's concern that Federal members of Parliament should be aware of its activities is, of course, the Victorian Branch, lt is interesting to look at some of the work that the Victorian Branch has been engaged in. It appointed a subcommittee to carry out a survey of the whole cross-section of pre-school education in Victoria, to look at the present situation, the needs and the best way in which those needs could be met. This sub-committee published its report in June 1970 and without going into ri in great detail I suggest that it is a very valuable exercise for honourable members to look at the report, the Association's assessment of pre-school education and the particular needs that the Association has identified. The first of the significant matters that has come out of that report is again this recognition of the importance of pre-school education. In its report the Association said: 
Today it is being said that the crucial educational years are the first 5 years of life and that if certain learning does not take place during this period, the child may never fully make up the loss. It is vital that recognition and due attention be given to the important part which pre-school education plays in the total field of education. 
Without labouring the point, it is important to remember that pre-school education is, above all, laying these firm foundations for the child's subsequent educational experience. 
Secondly - and again this is a point particularly related to the need which this piece of legislation seeks to meet - we should note the emphasis that the subcommittee placed on the need for improved and expanded facilities. It carried out a survey and ascertained that there were some 70,000 pupils in Victoria who started primary education in the year in which the survey was conducted. It found that some 50 per cent of those children had received at least 1 year of pre-school education. I suppose that 50 per cent is not exceptionally high, but it is, I venture to say, better than in other States. The 50 per cent might not be particularly high but the objective that should be sought is, of course, 100 per cent. If pre-school education is recognised as being as important as it is then every effort should be made to provide adequate facilities so that every child has at least the opportunity, which its parents may or may not take up, to have that important educational experience. The facilities need to be expanded and improved and this piece of legislation will enable those facilities to be expanded and improved. 
A very interesting document that has been published recently is the report of Professor Karmel's committee on education in South Australia. In the chapter relating to pre-school education that report reveals a situation which is not very satisfactory in South Australia and the situation I would suggest, is not completely satisfactory in any of the other States. Some research work that I have done indicates that by taking a percentage of children between the ages of 3 and 5 years who are not attending infant schools and using that percentage as a basis to determine the percentage of children attending pre-schools in the various States, it is revealed that in Victoria this percentage is 28.23. That, I emphasise, is taking all children between the ages of 3 and 5 years. In Queensland the figure is only 8.11 per cent; in South Australia it is 15.44 per cent and in Western Australia it is 11.9 per cent. The situation is not very good in some of the States but it is fairly good in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory where, of course, the Commonwealth has particular responsibility. 
The need is there and I suggest that the Bill that we are considering will enable that need to be met and remedied. It provides some $2.5m for the provision of preschool teacher training colleges and it will enable the capacity to produce trained preschool and kindergarten teachers to be doubled. It is important to remember that this is a particular need that was identified by the Commonwealth's not just making its own decision about the matter but rather by consulting the State Governments, the local authorities, the colleges and all bodies and groups concerned with pre-school education. Their opinion, as expressed to the Commonwealth and accepted by the Commonwealth, is that it is in the area of pre-school teacher colleges that the greatest need existed. It is very commendable that the Commonwealth has seen fit to make this substantial sum of money available for the provision of more places in pre-school teacher training colleagues. 
The third area of -concern that the subcommittee of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Pre-school Association identified related to supervisors - not merely the teachers themselves but those highly trained and experienced pre-school and kindergarten supervisors who supervise the work of a group of pre-school centres or kindergartens. The sub-committee looked at the period 1963-69 and found that during that time there had been 223 additional pre-school centres established in Victoria. It also found that some 30 to 40 new pre-school centres were being established each year. But despite such a large increase in the 6-year period in the number of pre-school centres built, the number of supervisors available had not increased by one since 1963. It was for that reason that the sub-committee made a specific recommendation relating to the necessity for an increase in the number of supervisors available to carry out this important work. The sub-committee recommended as follows:   . . that the ratio of centres to supervisor should be 20-30 Centres to each supervisor. It would be necessary for an additional 8 advisors to be appointed to establish a ration of 1 to 30 centres. The present load of 60 or more centres per advisor makes it impossible to provide adequate help for the Committee and teachers. 
That is another important area of need which the Committee identified as the result of its survey. Coming closer to home, let me refer to one of the particular training colleges mentioned in the schedule to the 1968 Act. I refer to the Melbourne Kindergarten Teachers' College. The Committee was able to identify the particular financial needs which that college had then and still has. The first of the important matters is that there is a need for recurrent funds to be made available. The Committee referred to the necessity for this money to be provided by the Commonwealth. That was the view of the Committee. It is not a view which should be accepted auto matically but, I suggest, it is a view that should be taken into account. 
It is significant that a body such as this, with wide and long experience in preschool education and in dealing with State governments and the authorities concerned with pre-school education, knowing the sources of finance available and where they have come from, should have recommended specifically that some considerations should be given to making recurrent grants available to the college by the Commonwealth. I trust that that is something which the Commonwealth will take into account and keep under consideration as it continues to look at the role of the Commonwealth in education in the years to come. 
The second of the particular needs related to bursaries. It was felt by the Committee that, at least as far as the Melbourne Kindergarten Teachers' College was concerned, more teacher bursaries should be made available and that they should be more valuable and brought up to par with the studentships made available by the Department of Education and Science for those persons who intend to undergo primary school teacher training. They are the 2 particular needs of the Melbourne Kindergarten Teachers' College which the Committee identified as the result of its survey. I hope that honourable members will look at the report that the Committee made as a result of its inquiries and look at the needs of pre-school education that still exist. 1 emphasise, as educational authorities have been emphasising for some time, that this is a very important field of education. 
I do not want to go over all the recommendations that the Committee made but I should like to refer briefly to a few of them in the time I have left to me. The Committee emphasised that adequate supervision of all pre-school centres is vital. It goes on to substantiate that statement by saying that at the present time there is not adequate supervision available in view of the lack of staff to carry out that important activity. It further said that the section of the Department of Health - which is the responsible department in Victoria - responsible for the supervision of pre-school centres in Victoria is understaffed and that there is a need for a substantial increase in the staff available. The 
Committee emphasised the work of voluntary committees and the fact that the voluntary committees do not receive sufficient financial support from the State and Federal Governments. It made a plea for further financial support from those governments. 
Without going into it in more detail, it is fair to say that the report is very analytical. It goes into the subject of pre-school education in Victoria in great depth. It identifies particular needs in pre-school education in Victoria. I compliment the Australian Pre-School Association on the work it has done in that regard. Let me go back to the Bill and say that it is substantially a machinery piece of legislation insofar as it post-dates the prescribed date within which the grants can be made under the legislation. It goes hand in hand with the principal Act which was passed in 1968 which makes a substantial sum of money - $2.5 - available for pre-school teachers' training colleges. This scheme of legislation shows that the Commonwealth recognises the importance of pre-school education in Australia. It is important for the long term education of all children in Australia. Without any equivocation at all I compliment the Government on introducing the legislation in the first place and certainly on introducing this particular piece of legislation which will ensure that all the money can be disposed of and to the very best advantage. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. I ask the Minister what, if any, decision has been made concerning the use to which Essendon Airport will be put after the domestic airlines transfer their operations to Tullamarine Airport. Further, what, if any, estimate has been made of the cost of operating Essendon after the transfer and will that cost justify the continuance of an airport at Essendon? 
I, for one, am grateful to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  for bringing a little sunshine and fun and games into our otherwise sombre lives. I heard a story the other day about the honourable member for Grayndler. It is associated with the memoirs of the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell).  I was told that the only reference to the activities of or statements made by the honourable member for Grayndler would be found in the section devoted to comedy. I can well understand that, having heard what he said tonight. But, of course, it is a very good ploy, when there are so many great national issues at stake in this country today and when there are so many matters of great seriousness, to put on a humorous act to divert attention from them. 
One of the greatest comedy turns seen in Australia over the last few months was the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party in Launceston in June. It seems to me that one can hardly take some of the motions that were passed at the Conference in anything other than the lighthearted vein in which the honourable member for Grayndler spoke. However, they involved serious matters and I want to draw attention to one or two of them tonight. I am a lawyer. Legal matters, of course, were involved in the meeting of the Labor Party's Federal Conference. Some extremely relevant and pertinent matters were considered by the Conference in June. It seemed to me that on that occasion some of the most basic principles concerning the enforcement and administration of law, order and justice in Australia were subverted. One of these principles - I venture to suggest that there is no principle more basic than this in the administration of law and justice in Australia or, indeed, in any civilised society - is that judges and persons holding judicial positions should be free of the fear of being removed by any government of any particular political complexion. I suggest that the principle would go further and would say something like this: 'Judges are impartial; they should be impartial; they should be able to reach decisions on evidence that is placed before them in a court in a hearing involving people who have different interests that they want represented before that tribunal; and the judge or other person holding judicial office should be able to reach an impartial decision'. 
That principle has been subverted by a significant resolution which was passed by the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party in Launceston. That resolution said that there should be fixed terms of appointment for members of the Arbitration Commission and for conciliators appointed to that Commission. The resolution did not say that they should be appointed for life or that they should be appointed until they reach the age of 70 years or some other age but that they should be appointed for fixed terms. 
I. will tell the honourable member. Because it goes quite contrary to the elementary and basic principles of the administration of law and justice. 
 For all intents and purposes the discussion may well have been concluded. I can understand, with due respect and without being at all facetious, your feeling that perhaps the debate had concluded. Indeed, I wondered at some stages whether the debate had started. This is a debate on  a  matter of public importance and I have been wondering myself why &lt;t has been raised at this stage, f can sympathise with the view expressed by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  that the Opposition felt obliged to raise this matter to draw attention to the extent of Commonwealth power in these matters and the general desirability of the Commonwealth embarking on activities in some of those fields that have been mentioned this afternoon and, indeed, some of the fields that are set out in the matter that we are debating this afternoon. But what I cannot understand is the attitude of the Opposition in coming into this place today - Tuesday - to castigate and to criticise the Government for its lack of activity when it was only, after all, last Friday that the High Court handed down its judgment. It was a momentous judgment indeed but it was only last Friday that the judgment was delivered. 
I think that honourable members of the Opposition who spoke in this debate will agree that until that judgment was delivered this was an area of great complexity and great uncertainty in the law. Honourable members can go back through the law books, through the texts and through the cases and see differing opinions and conflicting judgments which have been given. The whole area has been one of uncertainty which fortunately has now been largely clarified. 
If honourable members look, for instance, at the collection of 'Cases on the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia' edited by Professor Geoffrey Sawer, they will see that he included in this collection of cases as a momentous decision the decision in the case of Huddart Parker v. Moorehead in which the Court's decision was recently overruled. In the note to that case, Professor Geoffrey Sawer said this: 
The case establishes that pi. ()- 
That is Section 51 (xx.) of the Constitution relating to the corporations power:   . . does not authorise laws for the incorporation of companies, and it is clear that this was the intention of  the  Founders;  
He then cites Quick and Garran's book on the Constitution for that proposition. 
Honourable members can see in some of the speeches made by the former AttorneyGeneral,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, that time and time again he referred to the various sources of power that can be drawn on by the Commonwealth to justify as a basis for restrictive trade practices legislation and emphasised again and again the uncertainty of many of these areas of power and their extent. So it is a complicated and involved area, lt is one that has been the subject of many judicial decisions. It is one that must still be and will continue to be the subject of the closest and most detailed examination to see precisely what is the extent of Commonwealth power and the way in which that Commonwealth power should be used. It is not simply a matter of the High Court handing down last Friday a momentous decision, which indicates a wide extent of Commonwealth power and the Opposition then coming to the Parliament on the following Tuesday to castigate the Government for not immediately having on the statute books legislation which might in the long run be worth while but which is not there now. 
Enough has probably been said about the trade practices aspect of this subject. The other matters that are mentioned in the proposition that the House is debating at the moment scarcely were discussed. They were referred to by the Leader of the Opposition in his speech, I think. These are consumer protection, consumer credit, security markets and overseas controls. These matters scarcely received a mention in the speeches delivered by the members of the Opposition who took part in this debate. Those matters are all important. They all deserve to be the subject of good and strong legislation. As one  speaker  from the Opposition side said, it is important for an ordered, civilised and fair society that these matters should be regulated. But the mistake that the Opposition has made in this field as in so many fields is to say automatically: 'The Commonwealth should act.' They assume automatically that the Commonwealth should legislate. They forget that in many instances as is the case with some of the items that are mentioned in this matter there is also State legislation and that that State legislation is already implemented. It is not perfect legislation. When one reads the reports, for instance, of the Victorian Consumer Protection Council one will see specific criticisms that are made of the extent of the legislation existing in that State. But the legislation is there. It does work. It can be improved. 
What I say to the members of the Opposition who raise this argument is not that I believe that there should be no Commonwealth intervention in these important matters, but that if Commonwealth activity in these matters is wanted, a case must be made out for it. If Opposition members raise for discussion a matter of public importance such as this one, they must point to specific State legislation which is on the State statute books. They must show the way in which that has not worked; they must show the way in which that has failed. Also, they must show the way in which the Commonwealth can improve upon it. It is not simply a matter of saying that the Commonwealth can introduce legislation and all of these problems will be swept under the table. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  said, the general area of consumer credit has been the subject of a detailed investigation and a detailed inquiry by the Roggerson committee in South Australia. That committee investigated many aspects of consumer credit and consumer protection and published a detailed and lengthy report. The committee covered aspects such as security over goods, misleading advertising, minimum deposits, disclosure of interest rates and all the other pernicious aspects of consumer credit that so deserve legislation. 
However,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you will read that report - you will read it closely - but you will read in vain for any indication that the system of State legislation or the administration of this system under the States is such that a case has been made out for overall Commonwealth control. You will see that one of the principal recommendations is that officers should be appointed in the States to have a general supervision of consumer affairs. The report recommends that commissioners of consumer affairs should be appointed. But what the committee does not recommend is that the Commonwealth itself should seek or derive power from some source or other to take over this matter of government activity. What the committee says is that it is important that commissioners of consumer affairs should be appointed, but it is important that they should be appointed in each State by the States themselves, and so far as the Commonwealth is concerned, in the Commonwealth Territories. 
As I have said, this very detailed matter has been investigated by a South Australian committee. Also, it has been the subject of discussion by standing committees of State and Commonwealth AttorneysGeneral. It is being investigated at great length. These are important matters which should be covered by strong legislation to protect the public in these very important areas. I repeat that the only point that can fairly be made against the matter of public importance raised by the Opposition is that it is just too simple a solution to say: 'The Commonwealth should intervene immediately'. 
 The Budget is concerned with the economy as it is at present and as it can be expected to progress in the ensuing year. This Budget debate in which we are taking part at the moment gives us an opportunity to scrutinise the Budget and to see in what areas improvements can be made. If I may say so, the speech made by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  is quite a contribution to this objective today. It is unfortunate that time prevents me from dealing with some of the matters that he raised. But I do say quite honestly that some of the points that he raised today have given me a great deal to think about. 
The aspect I wish to concern myself with is the industrial development of the country because it is clear that our economic success will depend increasingly on the strength of our industrial base. Only from a sound and expanded industrial base can come the improvements to society that we all want to see - improvements in education, health, social services, local government and, in fact, in all of the areas of government activity. I wish to look in particular at 2 specific matters where I think the Government could make improvements to the part it has played up until the present. The first is industrial research and development. 
In  1967  the Government quite rightly introduced a scheme to give support and assistance to private industrial research and development. Until then Australia had lagged behind in this field. The proportion of gross national product spent on research and development in Australia had put us very low on the international list. In  1964  we were below  10  other countries and the European Economic Community and spent only  0.7  per cent of our Gross National Product on research and development. Even in  1968  Dr P.  C. Stubbs of the Institute of Applied Economic Research at the University of Melbourne was able to write in the Australian Economic Review that 'it is generally accepted that Australia spends little on research and development, either absolutely or in relation to her gross national product'. The most notable feature of industrial research and development in Australia was that only a very small percentage of research and development was carried out by the private sector; the bulk of it was financed by governments and was performed not in industry, but in government institutions. Hardly any research and development in private industry was financed by government funds. This was in contrast to other industrialised countries where governments supported and encouraged research in private industry. 
There were several reasons why there was comparatively little private research in industry. Those reasons were that there were limited economies of scale; a shortage of capital; and an obligation, or at least a strong inclination, to rely on proven overseas research and development by parent companies who owned an Australian company, rather than to experiment in Australia with risky, long and costly projects. For instance,  Dr Stubbs"  survey for the Institute of Applied Economic Research of 45 major Australian industrial companies showed as he put it: 'that over two-thirds of major product innovations and over nine-tenths of major process innovations between 1954 and 1964 were either direct applications of overseas innovations or modifications of them'. What was needed then was government support and incentive to encourage Australian businesses to spend more on research. The Government provided that incentive, I believe, in 1967 when the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act was passed. The Minister who introduced the legislation very accurately summed up the malaise that had been striking at industrial research in Australia. He said: 
We are in danger of becoming copyists in a wide area of industry with an undue reliance on overseas technological development. To alter this the Government believes that it is necessary to alter the attitude of Australian management towards industrial research and development. We are, therefore, proposing the introduction of a system of grants to Australian industry to encourage firms to undertake additional research and development work. 
That is where the emphasis is contained in the scheme which was then introduced and which still operates. General grants under the scheme were 50 per cent of the eligible expenditure paid out by a company on research work up to an expenditure of $50,000. The intention clearly was that companies should spend more on research and development. If they did, they would be paid by the Government 50 per cent of their eligible expenditure. There is every reason to believe that the scheme was operating well. After an initial reluctance or hesitancy by companies to apply for grants under the scheme, many applications were made and substantial sums were paid out for private research and development work that may well not have been expended if it were not for the scheme. 
The third annual report of the Australian Research and Development Grants Board brought down in 1969-70, showed that the scheme was working well and was achieving the objectives that the Minister emphasised when the scheme was first introduced. That report said in part: 
There has been a further substantial increase in the response to the assistance afforded by the Act to the performance in Australia of increased industrial research and development. This is evident from the statistics given below. 
The statistics do indeed bear out this favourable report, for in the first year of its operation the Board made grants of only $653,703; in the second year of operation it paid out $5,300,000; in the third year, it made grants to the value of $8,915,000; and last year it doubled them to $16,250,000. But what has happened now - and this is the basis of my complaint and the reason why 1 raise it in this debate - is that the Government has reduced the grants payable for research and development from 50 per cent to 35 per cent of eligible expenditure. I believe that thc grants should not have been so reduced, and I believe that the decision not to re-introduce grants of 50 per cent in the present Budget was a mistake. 
There are several reasons why this is so. First, it is important that companies should be able to plan ahead - to plan a programme of research and development over a number of years to fit in with other activities, and a plan that the company will be able to afford. It will not encourage inventiveness and it will not stimulate research if the Government changes the degree of financial assistance it is prepared to give from time to time. Indeed, the Government itself recognised the importance of this factor when the scheme was introduced. The Minister said in introducing the legislation: 
As the scheme aims to provide Arms with an incentive to invest in additional research and development staff and facilities, the Government recognises the need for the incentive to have a reasonable and certain continuity. 
I suggest that it will not give reasonable and certain continuity if the extent of the grants is changed after only a few years and if, above all, the grants are changed without adequate notice. Secondly, the type of business most affected by this cut is the small firm which might have considered  a  modest research programme but which is not given much incentive by a grant of 35 per cent of its eligible expenditure. The grants are taxed and when that fact is taken into account, the research grant may be worth only about 18c in the dollar. A company is not going to be very much stimulated to research by a modest return of 18c of each dollar of eligible expenditure that it incurs on such a risky and uncertain field as industrial research and development. 
Thirdly, improved technology and industrialisation will improve productivity and tend to reduce costs and these are in themselves anti-inflationary measures. Consequently there should be more and not less stimulus to the practical research that may result in improved technology and industrialisation and lower costs. The fourth reason I suggest is that research and development can encourage inventiveness and innovation and this can be turned to Australia's great advantage by earning both royalties overseas and export income, and of course by lessening the enormous royalty burden that this country already bears. Research and development in the right fields can reduce or at least restrict an expansion of expenditure on overseas technology. For instance, we now pay out to overseas companies in each year over $60m in royalties. 
The scheme introduced by the Govern-, ment has been successful. The scheme itself is one of the major reasons why the expenditure on research and development has increased so rapidly. One only has to look at the figures to see the results of this beneficial scheme. Australian industry now spends around $60m a year on research. This means it has almost doubled in 3 years, and that doubling is mainly due to the incentive and encouragement offered by the Government under the grants scheme. But now, right at the time when industry is starting to realise the importance of spending on research, when industry is in fact spending and planning for research, we cut down on the incentive and we reduce the very factor that has brought about the increases in spending, planning, and employment in research and development. 
In this year's Budget the Government is appropriating $13m to industrial research and development under this scheme. Last year, as I said before, it spent $16,250,000. I suggest that this is no time in Australia's industrial development to reduce by $3. 25m the amount of Government support for research and development which can do so much to strengthen the industrial base of the country. I cannot help but agree with what the then Minister for Education and Science said when he opened the Science and Industry Forum of the Australian Academy of Science in 1969. He said: 
Further to that there seems to be a nigh correlation between the rate of growth of an industry and its investment in science and technology. Now this does not necessarily mean that investment in research is the cause of growth; it may be that growth and, if you like, increasing industrial affluence, induces a greater inventiveness in research. ... Be that as it may, as this difference in growth rate continues, and as new science-based industries evolve, it seems clear that the research of intensive industry will become an increasingly important segment of the economy. 
I hope that the emphasis contained in the Minister's speech will be carried on and that the Government will look again at this important matter and restore the grants to 50 per cent of eligible expenditure and not leave them at 35 per cent as they now are. 
The second matter in this general field to which I wish to refer relates to Australia's industrial development also and its progress. Again it is a field where the Government could well have adopted a different course from the one it has adopted in the Budget. This relates to the investment allowance. The investment allowance, as it is called, is an allowable deduction from a manufacturer's income tax based on his expenditure on new manufacturing plant and equipment. This was allowed as a deduction from February 1962 until 3rd February 1971, when it was removed as an allowance as an antiinflationary measure. It was allowed in 1962 to encourage manufacturers to install new machinery, to stimulate industrial activity, to increase output and to provide more employment. The allowance was for a deduction of 20 per cent of capital expenditure on new plant and equipment and. ancillary plant used in the production of manufactured goods and it was deducted from the income of the year when the plant and equipment was first used. Depreciation was of course still allowed and it is only fair to say that with depreciation and. the investment allowance, 120 .per cent of the. cost of the equipment was deductible. The investment deduction was not a loose benefit but was tightly defined so that it applied only to new equipment actually bought and used on the premises, owned by the taxpayer and used in Australia. 
I have said that the purpose of this new allowance was to stimulate production and increase employment opportunities in industry. The then Treasurer summed up the intention of the Government in introducing this new deduction when he said that the purpose of the allowance was to provide a general incentive to investment in manufacturing industry. He added that the manufacturing industry was a great employer of labourer and that the Government wished particularly to encourage it to expand and to increase its efficiency to the highest degree. One could not disagree with that opinion that he then expressed. The deduction operated, as I said, until 3rd February 1971 when it was abolished as part of the Government's anti-inflationary measures. 
If it were restored it would not by any means be a cheap measure for the Government. It would probably cost around $50m a year in lost revenue. So far as it operated with respect to manufacturing industry the revenue forgone by the Government as a result of the deduction was $46. 5m in 1968-69, $55m in 1969-70, and $45m last year. Nevertheless it would seem to me that a case can be made out for reintroducing the deduction either completely or at least at a lesser percentage than the original 20 per cent. In the first place, the grounds of the disallowance are open to question. It was said that private investment in nonfarm plant and equipment was rising at a rate in excess of 20 per cent a year. If one looks at the figures it is clear that this 20 per cent did not apply in manufacturing industry. The rate of increase of investment in manufacturing industry over the 5 years up to this year was only 4.4 per cent. In wholesale and retail trade it was 7.7 per cent; in transport 13.4 per cent; in mining 29 per cent and in other non-manufacturing industries 13.9 per cent. I think it could be fairly agreed that the 4.4 per cent increase in manufacturing industry was not excessive, but that in fact there is a case for more stimulus to manufacturing, to encourage modernisation of equipment and improvements in efficiency and productivity. 
It is a complicated question to work out the desirability of reintroducing the deduction. It has been argued for instance that the encouragement to invest in plant and equipment that comes from such a deduction attracts resources in a distorted fashion to what may not be the best area of resource allocation, it has also been argued that to justify the reintroduction of the allowance the manufacturing industry should have to show that the tax loss of $50m or so has been made up by the increases in productivity and efficiency. 
What concerns me most, however, is that the absence of an investment deduction now certainly does not encourage the installation of the newest and most modern plant and equipment which surely should be the best encouragement to increased productivity. Our labour costs are very high indeed and severely restrict our competition in world markets. We can aim to offset the high labour costs by striving for more modernisation and sophistication, more innovation and specialisation and, above all, more productivity. All of these factors will help to increase our export income from manufactured goods. So we should look to those factors which will tend in that direction. I have already mentioned one, encouragement to research and development, and another is the investment allowance. A country must invest in productive capacity. Exhortations to increase productivity are not enough. The money has to go into those areas where improved productivity will result. And a government's role is to encourage that type of investment. The American experience is not dissimilar from our own. In 1961 the United States Government introduced an investment credit system similar to our investment allowance. Like Australia, the United States cancelled the investment credit system as an anti-inflationary measure. But enlightened opinion there, as here, has pointed to the long term importance of investment in productive capacity. A team of experts reported to  President  Nixon late last year in the following terms: 
Congress's repeal of the investment credit was in large part motivated by the desire to curb inflationary pressures and, although any increase in income tax may have some short range effect in this direction, we think that the long range result of increasing tax on business, particularly if the increase results in curbing the growth of productive capacity, will be to hinder efforts to reduce or stabilise the price level. 
Without Government stimulus, industry has to generate its own resources, to increase resources and to put these into increased productivity. I wonder whether these resources are there without further stimulus. The gross operating surplus of all trading companies, including depreciation, net interest, rents and royalties paid, and profits, fell by $30m in the June quarter of 1970-71 compared with the same quarter in 1969-70. Clearly there can be no great extravagance of resources within industry without more incentive to invest in new plant and equipment. I would suggest, therefore, that there could well be a case for more stimulus and more encouragement from the Government to invest in industry and I would hope that the Government would keep this matter under review with a view to restoring the investment allowance. 
Briefly in conclusion, as I said at the outset, the industrial development of the country is the most important single factor that will determine the future well being and prosperity of the people of Australia. Industrial development has become even more important as many sectors of primary industry have become beset with deep and long term problems. The future of this country will depend on whether we can build up viable and substantial secondary industries. Industrial development is inevitably closely linked with and affected by Government policies and, indeed, by the philosophy and attitude the Government takes towards industry. I suggest it is time that we articulated a charter of the general policy approach and attitude that the Government will adopt towards industry. If such a charter were drawn some at least of the following points would be well qualified for inclusion: Firstly, that the Government's role is to give incentive and encouragement, to stimulate production and adoption of new and improved techniques; secondly, to create a climate of genuinely free competition in which manufacturers will know that their efforts and energies will not be stifled by the dead hand of restrictive practice in industry; and thirdly, that the Government must pay a high regard to expanding exports by incentives and, in particular, by examining critically the shipping arrangements that presently operate on the transportation of exports from Australia. If the right climate is created private initiative and personal endeavour can operate with their full power. So much of that power is today held in reserve and not properly utilised. I suggest that by the adoption of some of the ideas I have put forward in the course of this speech resources and energy can be let free and benefit the community as a whole. 
Mi KENNEDY (Bendigo) (5.44)- This Budget has been condemned by the Opposition and I add my support to that condemnation. One of the most worrying features of the Budget is its failure to deal with the plight of the primary producer and the provincial cities and towns. We have been presented over the last few years with a process of depopulation of the countryside which is almost unprecedented in this country's history. We have a situation where country towns are closing and becoming ghost towns; where in many country towns and cities businesses are closing, liquidity is very tight indeed, there is unemployment and it is very difficult for many people to get jobs. This situation merely exacerbates that which will apply at the end of the school year when most of the school population in the country goes off to the city. 
What is causing this situation? We know what is causing it but unfortunately the Government is not taking action to deal with it. If we look at a document entitled National Income and Expenditure 1970- 71' on page 5 we will see evidence of the overall decline in the rural economy which this Government has presided over for the last few years. It is a disgraceful commentary on a situation in which we have a Country Party in coalition with a metropolitan based Liberal Party which is actually watching the decline of the countryside and the collapse of rural Australia. The paper 'National Income and Expenditure 1970-71' reports: 
In terms of current prices, gross national product - the market value of final goods and services produced in Australia - increased by 10 per cent in 1970-71. Gross farm product at market prices fell by 12 per cent, while gross non-farm product at market prices increased by 11 per cent. Gross national expenditure - the total market value of expenditure on final goods and services for use within the Australian economy - also increased by 10 per cent. 
This is clear evidence of the bias that has developed in this Government on the issue of the country versus the city. As a result we have economic stagnation, depopulation and unemployment in country areas. These have been caused directly by Government policies in collaboration with events that have been taking place in our marketing overseas. It is a problem that is not being tackled. 
The Government has claimed that it is concerned with the plight of the rural producer and has brought in a rural reconstruction scheme aimed at providing $10Om over 4 years. The bulk of this money is to be loaned at 6 per cent and will produce a profit for the Commonwealth Government. This proposal is entirely hopeless. 1 do not know of any piece of Government legislation or social engineering which has been so wholeheartedly condemned by the people who operate it as this scheme has. This scheme has been condemned by virtually every State Government and every primary producer organisation in Australia. The scheme encourages the flight of some 100,000 farmers from the Australian countryside over the coming years. No wonder it has been condemned. In place of this scheme we should have a policy of providing long term low interest loans to farmers so that they can get themselves out of their extraordinary indebtedness, so that liquidity can be put back into the countryside, debts paid in country towns and cities and the economy of the countryside reactivated. 
In addition to that there is the problem of farmers who. are so deeply in debt that they face the possibility of foreclosure in the coming months. For those people this Government should announce a moratorium on debts for 2 to 5 years to protect them from a legal process which will condemn them to life in cities for which many of them are not educated or prepared. One of the aims of the rural reconstruction programme in providing what I do not believe is a large sum of money when we consider the size of the debt involved would be not merely to relieve the problem of individual farmers but to put money back into the countryside. Let us look at the Government's deficiency payments for the wool grower. The money is not even going to the wool grower. It is going directly to the financiers - to the wool brokers. It will never be seen by the wool growers and much of that money will never reach a country town or country city. 
In addition to that, what has been happening in the last 2 or 3 years clearly highlights the importance of a policy of decentralisation. No government in Australia has been as lax and as indolent on the question of decentralisation as this one. State governments have shown some initiative, but on every occasion on which the Labor Party has raised this subject in the Federal Parliament it has been told that it is purely and solely a question to be dealt with by the State governments. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has he seen reports of a statement said to have been issued yesterday by the Japanese Embassy in Canberra relating to a matter discussed in the House yesterday? In the interests of fairness to al] parties concerned can he advise whether these reports are true, and, if not, what the actual statement issued by the Japanese Embassy said? 
I ask the Prime Minister whether there are any rules and procedures relating to the classifying and declassifying of Government documents and, if so, whether he will advise the House what those rules and procedures are. 
I direct to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the 
Arts a question supplementary to that asked of him by the right honourable member for Higgins. I ask: Am I right in drawing the inference from the latter part of the Minister's answer to the earlier question that the Government has to all intents and purposes abandoned the proposal to establish a national film and television school? Will the Minister advise me whether it is at present the Government's policy to establish such a school. 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, relates to reports of intelligence operations in the United Kingdom by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Will the Prime Minister advise the House whether there are an consequences or implications for Australia in these revelations? If so, what are they? 
 Yes,  Sir, I  may say to the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  that fortunately his time has expired, but in his enthusiasm, and despite having wasted his own time and having obtained an undertaking from the Minister that he was quite agreeable to have representations from various schools incorporated in Hansard, apparently the honourable member for Sturt did not think them of sufficient value to be incorporated in Hansard. The honourable member for Sturt is a continuing entertainment. I say that in good spirits. I suppose he is a continuing example of the need for the Commonwealth Government, State governments, local governments or someone or other to spend more money on adult education. The honourable member for Sturt has trotted out the 2 basic arguments that have been put forward time and time again by members of the Opposition. The 2 basic arguments or contentions are these: First, that it is a matter for the Commonwealth Government and the Commonwealth should be setting out to provide millions of dollars immediately for education; and secondly, that the Government is lining the pockets of the rich who send their children to Geelong Grammar, to St Peters School and to all the other leading independent schools in Australia. But what the honourable member for Sturt does not seem to realise is that those 2 points gain nothing in the retelling. They are both basically false and can be easily demonstrated to be false. 
It is said that this is a matter for the Commonwealth. What the honourable member for Sturt simply does not understand and what many of his colleagues do not understand is that at the moment education constitutionally is the province of the State governments. Arguments can be advanced - I have done so myself on occasions^ - that a case exists for saying that the Commonwealth should increase its activity and its involvement in education. That is what this Government has done. Bearing in mind that it is the basic responsibility of the States to provide the basic education structure throughout the Commonwealth, this Government has endeavoured to locate specific areas of need where intervention of the national Parliament and the national Government on a national scale can be advantageous to the education system of the country. That is what has been done, bearing in mind all the time that education is basically the province of State governments. Now, until that situation is changed, that is the constitutional structure within which any responsible government of this country must administer the education system and must plan its educational appropriations. 
The second point which again, as I say, gains no strength in the retelling, is that the Government has been over-concerned with the expensive private schools to the sacrifice of the poorer and in particular parish schools. This is utterly false. It is true that, if we take a needs test we can see that some of the smaller parish schools need, in the strict sense of the word, more money than they are receiving at the moment from the Commonwealth and more money than they are receiving from the State governments under their particular schemes. I have put forward in this House on occasions that I would like to see some attempt made to distribute state aid to independent schools on what I have referred to as perhaps a more equitable basis. But what I ask myself and honourable members opposite to do is to try to devise a scheme under which that could fairly and equitably be done to all children in all schools throughout Australia without the Government being laid open to any charge that it is motivated by a sectarian influence or, if any untoward event happened and the Opposition formed the Government one day, the Opposition being laid open to that accusation. No government could, or should, be put in that position. In the absence of a water tight scheme which will enable Government funds to be distributed on such an equitable basis, then there is no alternative to the scheme which is presently being adopted by this Government. 
I suggest that there is a need for additional aid to be given to the independent school system. Sometimes it is said that the Government is pouring out far too much money for the independent school system. When one looks at the very basic facts - and the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  referred to some of them in his statement - it can be seen quite clearly that this is not so. For instance, throughout Australia, as the Minister said in his statement, 78 per cent of school enrolments were in State schools, and those schools received some 25 per cent of State revenue funds. In the independent school sector there were 22 per cent of school enrolments and those schools received one per cent of State revenue funds. This is a basic and obvious statistic, and in the face of that it just cannot be alleged that too much money is being spent by the Government on independent schools. 
Other honourable members have referred to schools in their electorates. I do not want to take honourable members on a conducted tour of my electorate, but I want to say that if one looks at the accounts, the balance sheets and the detailed financial situation of independent schools, especially the small parish schools, one finds that many of them are in very dire circumstances and have a clearly demonstrable need for additional support from this Government. For instance, I am thinking of one school in my electorate which has some 642 pupils. In 1970 it had a current loss of about $10,000, after including per capita grants from both the Commonwealth and State governments. At the end of June this year the debt owing on school buildings was about $120,000. That school is not a luxurious school; it is not a school where there is a guarantee that students will receive education in the type of circumstances which any educational authority would think was desirable. For instance, there are 4 classes of more than 49 pupils in the school. The average class size is 38 pupils. A neighbouring parish school will have a debt of $140,000 on its buildings by the end of this year. Another neighbouring local parish school has about $178,000 owing on its buildings. One could go on and give more examples, but it is not necessary to do so. It is sufficient merely to say that there is a clearly demonstrable case for additional support perhaps along the lines which the Commonwealth adopts in the Australian Capital Territory. 
As with many services, strains appear in the outer suburban areas where the schools are situated. These areas have increasing populations, more school buildings will have to be erected and more teachers will have to be provided. The financial strain on parents grows even greater. The increased per capita grants announced in the Victorian State Budget are a substantial help. But despite those grants the financial burden is still considerable. There are at least three ways in which the Com monwealth can give additional assistance to the independent schools sector where it would be most valuable and most needed. The first of these, I suggest, is that the per capita grants could well be increased. As has been stated repeatedly in this debate, since the scheme was introduced costs have increased and grants are of substantially less value than they were when they were made originally. 
The second method that could be adopted is, as I have said, to implement some of the methods of assistance that are given to the independent school sector by the Commonwealth itself in the Australian Capital Territory and in the other Australian Territories, that is, to extend to independent schools some of the capital aid that is determined by the Minister for the provision of school buildings and ancillary facilities in the Federal Territories. The Commonwealth makes an annual interest payment up to the long term bond rate in the Territories. It also assists the independent school authorities to borrow funds for their building programmes by the Independent Schools (Loans Guarantee) Act of 1969, under which the Commonwealth guarantees the loan. I suggest that the Commonwealth should at least consider extending some of these programmes to independent schools in the States. 
Thirdly, as regards teacher training, the independent school system is experiencing great difficult in meeting its immediate needs. Of course, the Commonwealth has given some assistance in this field under its teacher training programme whereby 10 per cent of the places at the colleges are reserved for students not bonded to State education departments. The Commonwealth has paid out and committed $54m under this scheme. This is a very generous provision and benefits teachers destined for the independent schools, but I believe that there is a case for providing further assistance to such teachers and for giving direct support for trainee teachers for independent schools. 
These are some of the reforms that I believe the Commonwealth should consider in order further to assist the independent school system. Reforms of this nature are essential if the independent school system is to survive, if State schools are not to be flooded with pupils who would otherwise be educated in the independent school sector, and if the principle of support for the independent school system is to be given the full meaning we originally intended it to have. If we subscribe to this principle we must ensure that it is properly implemented, and I suggest that some of the proposals I have made would give more weight and more strength to the implementation of this very important principle. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we express our deepest concern for our fellow men suffering in the refugee camps in India. While we recognise India's outstanding contribution in providing, as far as possible, for their immediate needs, we consider that this is a problem for all mankind to help solve, as there are  8  million people, many of them helpless children, affected. 
We have matched our words by deeds with contributions to our own special appeal in the Diamond Valley, Victoria. 
Now we ask The Government to: 
Give immediate aid of at least $10m to help relieve the suffering. 
Take the necessary diplomatic steps to seek a political solution. 
Urge the United Nations to make a more effective effort to intervene on behalf of these stricken people. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray 
increase monetary aid for the refugees to at least $10m immediately even if this entails reducing spending in other areas. 
Encourage and sponsor teams of volunteers with needed skills and medical supplies. 
Maintain all this aid for as long as the crisis persists. 
Your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of lie House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That  we express  our deepest concern for our fellow men suffering in the refugee camps in India. While we recognise India's outstanding contribution in providing, as far as possible, for the immediate needs, we consider that Ibis is a problem for all mankind to help solve, as there are nine million people, many of them helpless children affected. 
We have matched our words by deeds with contributions to our own special appeal in the Diamond Valley, Victoria. 
Now we ask the Government to: 
Suspend its aid to the Pakistan Government, immediately. 
Raise to $10,000,000 its aid to refugees now  in India. 
Add its voice to those seeking the release of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. 
Use its influence with its friends and allies to initiate action which will lead the Pakistan authorities to withdraw their troops from East Bengal and negotiate with the provisional Government of Bangla Desh. 
Move for the immediate initiation of a massive multi-national effort to underwrite the rehabilitation of the Bangla Desh people and their economy. 
Support all efforts to guarantee the fully autonomous development of the people  of  Bangla Desh. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we express our deepest concern for our fellow men suffering in the refugee camps in India. While we recognise India's outstanding contribution in providing, as far as possible, for their immediate needs, we consider that this is a problem for all mankind to help solve, as there are eight million people, many of them helpless children, affected. 
We have matched our words by deeds with contributions to our own special appeal in the Diamond Valley, Victoria. 
Now we ask the Government to: 
Give immediate aid of at least $10,000,000 to help relieve the suffering. 
Take the necessary diplomatic steps to seek a political solution. 
Urge the United Nations to make a more effective effort to intervene on behalf of these stricken people. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable The  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we express our deepest concern for our fellow men suffering in the refugee camps in India. While we recognise India's outstanding contribution in providing, as far as possible, for their immediate needs. we consider that this is a problem for all mankind to help solve, as there are 8 million people affected, many of them helpless children. We have matched our words by deeds, with contributions to our own special appeal in the Diamond Valley of Victoria. 
Now we ask the Government to 
Give immediate aid of at least $10 million to help relieve the suffering. 
Take the necessary diplomatic stepsto seek a political solution. 
Urge the United Nations to make a more effective effort to intervene on behalf of these stricken people. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and Science. As the Government has established an Australian Universities Commission and proposes to establish a commission on advanced education, is there not a case for the establishment of an Australian schools commission? Has the Minister considered the suggestion that a schools commission should be established, and if so, what is the result of the Government's deliberations on that matter? 
This debate on the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs is an opportunity to look at where the representation of the Department is situated and the consequences that flow from that representation. Australia is well represented overseas by people of the highest quality. Those with whom I have come in contact are very well trained and have a good knowledge of the countries to which they are attached. I was particularly interested recently to look at Australia's representation in Africa, because it is a part of the world where Australia's interest is new but which may well be of increasing importance in the next decade. Australia has a High Commission in Kenya which is also accredited to Uganda. We also have a High Commission in Tanzania which is accredited to Mauritius but not to Zambia, which adjoins Tanzania. Obviously we do not have any representation in Zambia. There are more Australians in Zambia, as I understand it, than there are in Tanzania. Further, in the problems of southern 
Africa and the way in which they will be solved, Zambia will take just as important a part and is just as significant a country as Tanzania. 
It is important that Australia has close contact with the southern and eastern African countries because events in that region are of considerable and growing concern to Australia. I suggest that at the earliest opportunity Australia should either accredit its High Commission in Tanzania to Zambia or, what would be more preferable, establish a new and separate High Commission in Zambia. It is clear that Uganda is going to become a significant country in east Africa. It is therefore important that we have close relations with that country. Accordingly, I would suggest that Australia should upgrade its representation in Uganda by establishing a High Commission there, instead of maintaining the lesser arrangement we have by the accreditation of our High Commission in Kenya to Uganda. 
I make these suggestions for two reasons. Firstly, Australia has interests in Africa that have probably not yet been fully appreciated. It is true that those interests are not as substantial as our interests in the nearer Asian region or the Pacific Ocean region. But we are a littoral state of the Indian Ocean and have a mutual interest in that region with the Indian Ocean littoral states of Africa and those in the immediate hinterland. Events that occur at least in those parts of Africa and in the Indian Ocean itself are of vital significance to Australia. This is especially so of the naval and military activity in the region, which shows more signs of building up than it does of decreasing. Again there are in Africa potential fields of increased trade for Australia that have not yet been fully exploited. The second reason is that Australia has an interest in contributing to more stability and peace in the southern and eastern African regions and can take some part in bringing the parties together in useful contact and dialogue. I believe that this is an exercise where Australia can take an initiative in international affairs. If that initiative is successful, it could well contribute very favourably to Australia's standing in the international community and contribute to peace and stability in the region, which is in itself in Australia's interest. 
The potential for dialogue in Africa is there. I myself hold no brief for South Africa, but it is to the credit of South Africa that it has stated several times that it is prepared to have dialogue with the African states to its north. It has also said that it is prepared to discuss at such meetings any matter at all, including, as I understand it, internal policies in South Africa. This is indeed a long way for South Africa to have gone though it is disappointing that some of South Africa's neighbours have declined this offer by South Africa to engage in dialogue. That is one reason why the climate is improving. Secondly, there are signs that at least some of the Francophone countries of Africa are prepared to engage in dialogue with South Africa and open up some tentative contacts. Countries such as Cote Ivoire and Haute Volta and African statesmen such as President Houphouet-Biogny have seen that it is fruitless berating South Africa and adopting an over belligerent stand against her when the mutual interests of all African countries and their people are much better served by contact, trade, recognition and discussion with South Africa and with each other. 
This is a fertile field where what is needed now is some encouragement by countries outside Africa to bring the protagonists together. Australia can lake an initiative in this field and should be prompted to do so because of the interest that Australia has in peace, stability and economic progress in the region. This discussion, of course, raises inevitably the relationship between Australia and South Africa. Australia, I would suggest, is in a unique position to affect events in Africa. We have close relations with South Africa through diplomatic exchange, expanding trade and a common cultural background. At the same time, we have good relations with those other countries in Africa with which we have contact. We are widely regarded as being a country affected and influenced by our presence in Asia, and our contact with Asian countries. This puts us as a European country in a unique position with advantages not possessed by other European countries. To preserve this position and to use it to advantage, as I have suggested we should do, we must be over careful not to become too identified with the maintenance of the present situation in South Africa. To do so would be to jeopardise the opportunities we have of being a mediator or an agency of dialogue in Africa and could well react adversely in our relations with some Asian countries and some of the countries of Africa other than South Africa. I say that principally because there are great changes coming about in South Africa. Even those people who hold themselves out as protagonists for South Africa would be foolish to deny that. Just as other countries in Africa realise that there is a lot to gain by contact with South Africa, so at the same time is South Africa realising that it is in her own interests to change some of her own internal policies and to work for closer contact with the other countries of Africa. There is a re-thinking in South Africa of tt basic policies applied in that country and this tendency is evident as much in the Government and the ruling party as anywhere else. Much of the re-thinking is for economic reasons and an awareness that the present policies can retard the economic growth of the country in a very competitive world. 
I do not wish to exaggerate the dangers to Australia, but I believe that there is at least a potential danger that if we are not cautious we will become identified with the support and approval of policies in South Africa that the South African Government itself may abandon in time. If that were so, Australia could jeopardise its relations in not only Africa but Asia as well. I think the source of that potential danger comes from the Government's present policy towards Africa which can best be described as a low profile, middle course policy; a policy of polite restrained relations with the black African countries and quite an intimate relationship with South Africa, protesting at the same time as we properly do that we find apartheid abhorrent. The trouble with such a policy is that it is open to interpretation as being a policy of passive support at least for South Africa. Consequently one often sees statements like the one made by the  President  of the Supreme Council for Sport in South Africa who has described Australia as unfortunately defying world opinion and, to use his own words 'as South Africa's white friend and greatest ally'. So that is the way the policy can be interpreted, unfortunate though it may be. 
Again, 1 think we are sometimes mesmerised by the argument that South Africa's own policies are an internal matter for South Africa and not for us. Of course, we cannot interfere in the internal policies of other countries, but an internal policy can become so notorious and divisive that it becomes an international issue, and when it becomes an international issue a country such as Australia must take  a  stand and sooner or later Australia will have to take more positive a stand on these divisive' international issues of race and racism. Our present low profile, middle course policy is at least open to the interpretation that we are siding with the forces of minority governments in Southern Africa. 1 believe that we should not continue such a policy but rather that we should recognise that we have wider interests than those represented solely by South Africa and adopt a positive policy which accurately reflects the mainstream of international events. 
I was particularly interested to see in the foreign affairs statement made by the Minister in August of this year where he analysed the changing situation of relationships in the world as it is today, especially where he said that this situation offered new changes and new opportunities. He went on to say that we need policies that are sensitive, flexible and imaginative. It is extremely difficult to articulate a proper policy for Australia to adopt towards South Africa and towards other southern African countries, but I suggest that this at least is an area where we might well apply what the Minister has said: namely, that we should be looking for sensitive, flexible and imaginate policies. I suggest that the emphasis should be on 'flexible'. Putting it at its very least, perhaps it is time we had another look at the attitude that we take to the various African countries. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we express our deepest concern for our fellow men suffering in the refugee camps in India. While we recognise India's outstanding contribution in providing, as far as possible, for their immediate needs, we consider that this is a problem for all mankind to help solve, as there are 8 million people affected, many of them helpless children. We have matched our words by deeds, with contributions to our own special appeal in the Diamond Valley of Victoria. 
Now we ask the Government to 
Give immediate aid of at least $10m to help relieve the suffering. 
Take the necessary diplomatic steps to seek a political solution. 
Urge the United Nations to make a more effective effort to intervene on behalf of these stricken people. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we express our deepest concern for our fellow men suffering in the refugee camps  in  India. While we recognise India's outstanding contribution  in  providing, as far  as  possible,  for  their immediate needs, we consider that this  is a  problem for all mankind to help solve,  as  there are nine million people, many of them helpless children, affected. 
We have matched our words by deeds with contributions to our own special appeal in the Diamond Valley, Victoria. 
Now we ask the Government to: 
Suspend its aid to the Pakistan Government, immediately. 
Raise to $10,000,000 its aid to refugees now in India. 
Add its voice to those seeking the release of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. 
Use its influence with its friends and allies to initiate action which will lead the Pakisstan authorities to withdraw their troops from East Bengal and negotiate with the provisional Government of Bangla Desh. 
Move for the immediate initiation of  a  massive multi-national effort to underwrite the rehabilitation of the Bangla Desh people and their economy. 
Support all efforts to guarantee the fully autonomous development of the people of Bangla Desh. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  should well know by now that the Government has not said that it finds the amendments unacceptable or that it will not accept them under any circumstances. The Government has made it quite clear that it will not accept these amendments in this form loosely drafted and ill-conceived and it will not accept them at this time. It may well be - I do not know; I am not responsible for it - that when the  Government  has concluded its deliberations on the amendments that should be made to the legislation to toughen it and tighten it, or to give it teeth, as has been said before, that these very words will be used. I hope - and I am speaking personally - that the very words in the amendments will not be used because I find that there are very great difficulties involved in interpreting what they mean. That point should be established at the outset, that the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory is quite wrong when he maintains in all that baldness that the Government will not accept the amendments that have been inserted in the legislation in the Senate. 
I think it is fairly clear that even at this late stage that the Opposition does not understand the purpose and nature of this piece of legislation. It is important and indeed vital because at the moment there is no restrictive trade legislation in Australia. Although it is vital for that reason it is only holding legislation. It is legislation that has been made necessary as a result of a decision of the High Court of Australia, and reference has already been made to that decision in the case of Strickland v. Rocla Concrete Pipes Ltd and others. I say that the Opposition does not understand the very nature of this legislation for 2 reasons: firstly, because of the amendments that were inserted into the legislation in the Senate and the manner in which those amendments were inserted - the illconcieved nature and the poor drafting of some of them; secondly, because of some of the speeches that have been made tonight. That point must be understood at the outset. It is a simple point. It is a clear point but it should be understood because it is a comprehension of that very basic point that honourable members would need to understand to decide how they should vote on this legislation. 
It is holding legislation to fill a vacuum it created as a result of that High Court decision. The Government has given very clear undertakings on a number of occasions that it is going to introduce further restrictive trade legislation and much tougher legislation than has been on the statute books in the past. Let me without taking too long read a small extract of what the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  said in the Senate when he introduced this legislation in that place: 
In my statement on 7th September 1971I said that the Government was committed to strengthening the legislation and that it proposed to follow the present holding Bill with a further Bill the purpose of which will be to strengthen the  legislation. 
I, referred to the considerable amount of work and attention that was being given to this objective and, in particular, to the consideration being given to the matter by an interdepartmental committee. I take the opportunity now to inform honourable senators that the Government has in the last few days received a report from that committee. The report covers a number of important and complex matters which deserve close consideration. The Government is proceeding to give these matters full and proper consideration. Honourable senators may be assured that the Government will proceed with this task as expeditiously as possible. The preparation of a Bill on such a complex and important matter may take some lime, but the Government proposes that, as soon as it is in a position to do so, it will inform the Parliament of the natureof the changes that it has decided to make to the legislation. The immediate and pressing need, however, is to restore  to the statute book restrictive trade practices legislation that is constitutionally sound. That is the purpose of this Bill. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
From that short extract - perhaps not so short - of what the Attorney-General said in the Senate, it is fairly clear, I would have thought to anyone who gives a close study to the matter, what the basic purpose of this legislation is. It is holding legislation. The Government has given its clear undertaking that it will introduce further legislation when the very vast and wide ranging complexities and implications of the report of that interdepartmental committee have been considered. 
I do not want to delay the House for very long, particularly in view of the pressure of legislation, but I want to refer very briefly to one other matter. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  in a very thoughtful speech, if I might say so, said to the House: 'Now, the Government is not to be taken at its word when it says that it will introduce toughening legislation'. Indeed, I think the honourable member said that he took a very sceptical view of the Government's pronouncements on this matter. First of all, on numerous occasions - I will refer to some of the occasions - the Government has given the specific undertaking that it will introduce such legislation. I could refer the honourable member, for a start, to the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr 
McMahon) on 4th September 1971 in which he gave that firm undertaking. 
The Attorney-General himself has given undertakings in similar terms on 7th September 1971, 14th October 1971 and 9th November 1971. Indeed - I think that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports may have referred to this matter himself - in the debate in this chamber this afternoon the Prime Minister gave the same undertaking. I would have thought that it ill became the honourable member for Melbourne Ports or any other honourable member in this House to say that they regard the Government's undertaking with scepticism when responsible Ministers of the Crown, and indeed the Prime Minister, have gone om of their way to give specific undertakings as to what course will be followed. But what must be understood clearly - the Attorney-General has made this clear in statements he has made - is that the work of this interdepartmental committee must be studied, because there arc wide ranging implications in the matters which that committee has brought to the Government's attention. 
Very briefly, (he second of the matters to which i wish to - refer, so far as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports is concerned, is that he said: . 'If you are genuine, why are you objecting to the amendments that were made in the Senate?' What I suggest to him is that he looks at the amendments which were inserted in the Senate, particularly new clause 35 and new clause 36, he will see that they do not fit very well into the legislation as it was before those amendments were, inserted. For instance, he will see the predatory pricing provision which was inserted in what. 1 think, is the new clause 35. If he looks at that and examines it in detail he will sec that it is an amendment which may well have some merit on some occasions but which, in the language which is used in the clause, is just so open to complexity' and doubt that I frankly am not at all convinced that it should be introduced into the legislation at this time. - For instance, the clause provides that the offence of predatory price cutting is -permitted if the price cutting is persistent. There is  do  suggestion in the amendment as to what has to be proved or the minimum, if it is proved, that will mean that an offence has been committed. It does not say whether it is persistent price cutting with respect to one product or whether the offence can be committed if persistent price cutting is engaged in with respect to one product and then another product sold by the same person. It does not say whether 'persistent' means twice, 3 times or any other number of occasions. The whole thing is vague. Of course, a specific reason why the amendment does not fit very well into the legislation is that price cutting itself was not overlooked in the Bill before the amendments were made. What is now in clause 39 of the Bill covers price cutting, and it is a very difficult tack for anyone to look at the Bill as it was before it was amended, together with the amendments, to see exactly how the amendments will operate with the provision that was in clause 39 before the amendments were made. 
These are complexities; these are involved matters. It is a matter of interpreting exactly what the words mean. After all, what is being established is a criminal offence with respect to both clause 35 and clause 36. These matters have to be clarified. They have to be precise for the reason that they are criminal offences, and for no other reason. As I say, these matters are complicated, they are involved, and I see no reason why the Government's undertaking should not be accepted. I refer to the Government's undertaking that now that the interdepartmental committee has brought in its report, what it has recommended or suggested to the Government will be examined in detail, and no doubt when this is done the Government will be in a position to introduce stronger and tougher restrictive trade practices legislation. For those reasons I support the legislation as it was before the amendments were inserted. 
I address a question to the Minister for Education and Science. I ask whether one of the problems involved in the operation of an Australian schools commission, such as has been proposed in certain quarters, is the allocation of resources between government schools and independent schools. Have recent statements on the independent school system made in the Parliament shown how an Australian schools commission could operate in practice? 
The honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  has implied that on occasions such as this sometimes unholy alliances arise between members of the differing political persuasions, and I find myself on this occasion in such an alliance with him and the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  There are 2 important matters arising from this report to which I wish to refer.I think both of them have been referred to already by previous speakers, but they are of equal importance and should be emphasised. The first is the change in the decision of the Committee as to whether the newspaper article constituted a breach of privilege. Honourable members who read the minutes of the meetings held by the Privileges Committee will see that a meeting of the Committee was held on 27th October 1971. At that meeting I moved: 
That this Committee finds that the article published in the Daily Telegraph of Friday 27th August 1971 does not constitute a breach of privilege or contempt of the House of Representatives. 
I supported this motion with reasons to which I will refer later. There were 5 members of the Committee present and those 5 members constituted a quorum It was a properly constituted meeting, properly called, and whatever decisions were to be made at that meeting would be valid. I disagree completely and most strongly, with respect, with the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr McIvor)  who has described the decision reached at that meeting as being irresponsible. The facts are that the decision was made by those who were there, that there was a quorum, that it was a properly constituted meeing, and that there was a lengthy and involved discussion by all members present on that occasion as to the evidence adduced at the previous meetings of the Committee and as to whether that evidence amounted to a breach of privilege. It was not an irresponsible decision; it was one properly made. 
It will be seen from the minutes that my motion was carried and consequently became the decision of the Committee. At that stage, then, the Privileges Committee had resolved that the article in question did not constitute a breach of privilege or a contempt of the House of Repres entatives. It is not strictly accurate to -ay that  Mr Reid,  the journalist, was a defendant in these proceedings, but insofar as he was a defendant he had then been acquitted. The next meeting was held on 3rd November and it is clear that the bulk of that meeting was devoted to a consideration of the draft report which had been prepared by the  Chairman  in the meantime. But at the end of the meeting it was moved that the previous decision of the Committee should be recommitted for reconsideration. 
At the next meeting, on 4th November, that motion was carried and the original motion was put again. On this occasion the motion was lost; in other words, the Committee undid its previous and valid decision that there had been no breach of privilege or contempt of the House of Representatives. The Committee then resolved that the article did constitute a contempt of the House of Representatives. That is the decision that is now before the House. I am very concerned that the Committee should have reversed its decision in this way without any persuasive reasons being advanced for doing so or, indeed, without any reasons at all being advanced for doing so. I should say clearly, however, that I believe the  Chairman  of the Privileges Committee acted correctly in allowing the motion for recommittal to be put to the meeting on 3rd November. Once that motion was moved the  Chairman  had to accept it, and I cannot see any ground on which he could have refused to accept it. My complaint is that the motion for recommittal - with respect, if there were any irresponsiblity at this stage it was in moving that motion - should not have been moved and should not have been carried. The first meeting at which the Committee decided there had been no breach of privilege was a properly constituted meeting and its decisions were valid. It had decided there was no breach of privilege. I believe it establishes a very unfortunate precedent to undo the Committee's decision at a subsequent meeting unless good reasons are shown for doing so. Whatever grounds may be appropriate for doing so, it is not an appropriate ground merely that all members of the Committee were not present. Why, after all, is there a requirement for a quorum in the Committee, in this House, or in any deliberative body? It is because decisions of a body must be made valid although all members may not be present due to some exigency. That is the very purpose of a quorum requirement - to make the decisions of the body valid if a quorum is present. It goes completely contrary to the quorum requirement and the reason for it to suggest that at a subsequent meeting when other members come along, they can upset the valid decisions made in their absence at a previous meeting. 
If it were said that there had been a fraud perpetrated at the earlier meeting - that the Committee had been tricked into making its decision - then the Committee could reconsider its earlier decision. That would be the case in an application to a court of law for a new trial and it could well be the case where it is sought to have the Privileges Committee reconsider its earlier decision. Again, if new evidence became available which was not available at the first meeting, then likewise the Committee could reconsider its earlier decision. Again, this could be done in an application to a court for a new trial. There may be other reasons that could be given, but when there are no valid reasons advanced, and when the only reason advanced is that some members were absent from the first meeting, and when in this case no reasons at all, valid or otherwise, were advanced, then 1 for one am not persuaded. In that case the Committee should not upset its earlier decision, and the reason it should not upset its earlier decision is simply that what it did at its earlier meeting was valid. It would be a very unfortunate state of affairs if decisions of this Committee could be changed daily, fluctuating backwards and forwards, depending on the ebb and flow of who happened to be present at any time, who was not present at any time and where their sympathies lay in the particular matter. That is the first matter - that the decision first made that there was no breach of privilege or contempt was validly made and should not have been rescinded in the absence of reasons given to the contrary. 
The second matter is that, in my view, the decision itself that the article constituted a contempt of the House of Representatives was wrong. There are several reasons for this and I will give them as briefly as I can. Firstly, it should be remembered that the journalist concerned,  Mr Reid,  gave his evidence on oath and that is not lightly to be considered. He said on oath that on his way to the chamber he heard, one Labor member say: It is a quorum: we walked out; that he heard one member castigating several people for being idiots for walking out; that in the chamber he heard another member saying that Opposition members had walked out of the chamber, and that he was told by 2 journalists that some Opposition members had walked out. He also said, and this is probably the most important single thing that he said in bis evidence, that he believed that he had written an accurate report of what had happened, that is, that he had believed it when he wrote it and he believed it at the time he gave his evidence. It seems to me that we should not find a journalist guilty of a contempt of the House, which is a serious matter indeed, when he writes an article purporting to be factual, when he states on oath the sources of his information and the basis on which he writes his article, and when he believes that what he writes is true. At the very least there must be some doubt about the matter when evidence of that nature is given and in such a case the journalist should be given the benefit of the doubt. 
Reading the totality of the evidence given before the Committee it is a fair conclusion that anyone placed in the journalist's position at the time when he wrote his article would be justified in concluding that some Opposition members had left the chamber when the quorum was called, even although we now know, after hearing the evidence of numerous witnesses, that it is extremely unlikely that any of them did leave. The second reason follows from the fact that we are the repositories of the privileges of this House. We allow journalists in the Press Gallery because it is part of our democratic tradition. We must be presumed to allow them there on some conditions. 
We know that journalists will write some articles that will be no more than verbatim reports of what is said in the House. We also know, or should know, that they will also write articles based on information that they receive from a variety of sources other than debates in the House; that there will be articles based on facts of which the journalist could not possibly know from his own personal knowledge. We know that that happens and we do not object to it. We continue to allow journalists to occupy the Press Gallery, and at least by doing nothing to the contrary we accept this practice. 
What then are the restraints that we Impose on journalists? What are the limitations on the articles that they write? Surely what we expect is that they will be honestly written, that a journalist will not put forward as an accomplished fact what he knows to be untrue. We also expect that if a journalist puts forward what purport to be facts he will have some justification for pulling forward those facts. It could be put this way: When a journalist is writing what appears to be factual but what he does not know from his own personal knowledge, has he acted responsibly or has he acted recklessly, merely throwing words casually down on to the paper without checking them and without making inquiries to ensure that what he has written is true? 
 Applying those principles to this case I would say that if the journalist,  Mr Reid,  had heard from a scullery maid or in backstairs gossip that seems to be relied upon so much in this Parliament that 
Opposition members had walked out of the chamber when the quorum was called and he wrote his article without checking and without inquiring to see whether it were true, he would be acting recklessly and not at all responsibly. The article then being inaccurate in those circumstances he would clearly have committed a contempt of the House. But it is clear that that is not what happened in this case, and the evidence makes it clear that that is not what happened in this case. 

 Mr Reid heard a story from one member of Parliament, then from another and then from 2 journalists. He said that he believed that what he wrote was true and he gave his evidence on oath. In those circumstances, although I have no brief for any of the interests in this particular case, I could not say that he had1 acted recklessly or irresponsibly. I could not say that he had committed a contempt against the House of Representatives. I hope,  Sir, that  that explains the reason why I find myself in good company in this unholy alliance with the honourable member for EdenMonaro and the honourable member for Mallee. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and Science and is prompted by the recent discussion on the methods of the distribution of state aid for independent schools. Can the Minister assist the House by giving an indication of what precisely are these competing systems or methods for the distribution of state aid to independent schools? Which is the system which most benefits the independent school system and which most expeditiously distributes the money that is available to independent schools?   Mr MALCOLM  FRASER- All States but one and the Commonwealth have selected a method of straight per capita payments in support of independent schools, dependent upon the number of children in those schools. For example, New South Wales provides $50 a head for primary schools and $59 a head for secondary schools. The Queensland figures are $45 and $81. In Western Australia, where there is now a Labor Government, the figures are $30 and $40. In South Australia the per capita part of the payment to independent schools which was instituted by a previous South Australian government is $10 for primary schools and $20 for secondary schools. In addition to that basic allocation which goes to all schools in South Australia there is a small sum which is distributed to primary schools on a needs allocation basis. I do not believe that the needs allocation provides an objective basis of distribution, but the schools which the committee in South Australia claims to be the most needy get an additional $24 a head if they are category A schools. There are 22 such schools only in the whole of the South Australian independent primary school system. If we add that $24 a head for these very few allegedly most needy schools in South Australia, the maximum per capia payment for primary schools is $34 a head For example, in the category D schools t falls to an additional $10 a head, which is very much less. The maximum of 34 a lead for only 22 private schools in South Autralia needs to be compared with $40 in Victoria, $50 in New South Wales and $4! in Queensland. That, of course, brings m&lt; to a passing reference to a claim that was made in this Parliament a short while am when the Leader of the Opposition-- 
I must say at the outset that I was rather disappointed in the speech made by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr 
Hurford) because, in all fairness to him, we have heard some fairly reasoned and sensible speeches from him, very different speeches from the scissors and paste job we heard tonight. As far as I could judge, it was composed almost entirely from some handout from the Australian Labor Party office in South Australia and from a speech by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  But I will go this far with the honourable member for Adelaide: I will agree with him that there probably is a case for the Government indicating what are its long term objectives so far as the role of manufacturing industry in this country is concerned. I agree with him to that extent. But what a world of difference there is between the 2 philosophies that are espoused. It is worth while recalling the words used by the honourable member for Adelaide, because similar words have been used by other speakers on the other side of the House. 
The honourable member advocated, and his Party has advocated, direct intervention by the Government in the economic affairs of this country. He has advocated, and others with him have advocated, that there be long term planning in such a way that the aims of the central government in industry will be carried out and will be slavishly complied with under the dictates and orders of the central government. That is a world of difference. It would well become those in this country who are associated with industry to recall these words. Those who are associated with industry should recall that this is the specific policy that is being advocated by this alternative government. 
The legislation was introduced at the end of a very significant week. Last week in this House the Opposition indicated the sort of measures that it would like to see introduced for the control of the economy. The Opposition referred to such things as the way in which the tariff structure should be controlled, specific price control and then, right at the end of the week, came the crowning glory - the opposition to this very modest piece of incentive, by taxation relief to the manufacturing industry of this country. I will say a little more about the general attitude of the Opposition to these things at a later stage, but I want to make it quite clear at the outset that I support this piece of legislation. My one regret is that it could perhaps have been introduced earlier. I made a speech in the last Budget debate which, when I come to read it now, I find even more persuasive than when 1 made it. On that occasion I advocated that perhaps the Government in the Budget could have restored the investment allowance at that time, in that speech I outlined the way in which the investment allowance worked. I said: 
I have said that the purpose of this new allow,ance was to stimulate production and increase employment opportunities in industry. The then Treasurer summed up the intention of the Government in introducing this new deduction when he said that the purpose of the allowance was to provide a general incentive to investment in manufacturing industry. He added that the manufacturing industry was a great employer of labour and that the Government wished particularly to encourage it to expand and to increase its efficiency to the highest degree. One could not disagree with that opinion that he then expressed. The deduction operated, as I said, until 3rd February 1971 when it was abolished as part of the Government's anti-inflationary measures. 
With that in mind, 1 have no hesitation in congratulating the Government on restoring this allowance in this legislation. I have only one qualification to make in my support for the legislation, and that is that there seems to be an anomaly in the interregnum while the allowance was not operative and while the deduction could not be made. With respect to contracts entered into before 4th February 1971 and payments made under those contracts after that time, the amount that was paid was deductible. It was not affected by the abolition of the investment allowance at that time. Now we have payments made after 13th February 1972  -  that is, on the occasion of the restoration of the allowance. Those payments are also deductible. But what is not deductible is that amount which was invested in plant and equipment in the period after 4th February 1971 when the allowance was lifted and up until the time when the allowance was restored. In other words, manufacturers may well have had the courage of their convictions and may well have gone in and acquired new plant and equipment and paid for it on the spot at that time, even in very recent times, shortly prior to the restoration of the allowance. It would seem to me that is an anomaly. I hope that the Government will look at it with a view to perhaps rectifying it at some future time. 1 want to emphasise that, with that qualification, J support the legislation and 1 very strongly oppose the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition. The legislation is a welcome measure. I believe it should stimulate the economy and contribute substantially to increased productivity. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  in a thoughtful but, with respect, misguided contribution to the debate indicated that productivity depended on 3 things. I think that the 3 criteria that he listed were better management, more machinery and better and more operatives. I agree with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. That is a fair assessment. But what he does not seem to understand is that this measure is designed to satisfy at least one of those criteria. It is designed to enable manufacturers to replace old worn out equipment and machinery, to acquire better machines and more machinery and to increase productivity in that way. That is the purpose of this legislation. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports stated as another objection to the legislation that the investment allowance was unselective and that incentives should be given in particular areas throughout the country. Indeed, I think he went so far as to suggest that perhaps the allowance should be available to encourage industry in States where there was a higher unemployment rate than in other States. 
As 1 understand the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, he said he would seek to restrict the investment allowance in that way to particular parts - I think he mentioned country areas - and particular States if the occasion arose. The short and simple answer to that proposition is that it would be unconstitutional. That would be a taxation law which discriminated between States or parts of States and consequently would be uncontitutional. So we need not concern ourselves with that proposition. 
A third point made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports to which I wish to refer was that incentives should be given to particular industries and that on occasions incentives should not be allowed at all in the case of other industries. I suggest to the House that this is the real nub of the Opposition's case. The Opposition would seek to distinguish between industries and, for all I know, between particular manufacturers and companies. It would say 'We will grant you the investment allowance because we think what you are doing is appropriate and deserves a taxation deduction'. But it would not allow the deduction to be given to other companies or manufacturers. It would pick and choose. What the Opposition is proposing to the people of Australia - it is well that those involved in manufacture in this country should bear this in mind - is that if it were the government it would pick and choose in this grace and favour way between the lucky beneficiaries of the investment allowance deduction and those who missed out. Heaven only knows what sort of criterion a Labor government would use to decide who would receive the investment allowance and who would not receive it. 
Honourable members will recall that at the commencement of my speech I indicated that the Opposition's opposition to this legislation had come at the end of a very significant week. In that week the Opposition indicated that it would use the tariff structure in this country in a most political way. The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  used the expression that it would be one of the instruments of a grace and favour government. It would pick and choose the industries that it supported. It would use its own criteria. Heaven only knows what these criteria would be. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  indicated very much the same thing. Another matter that was discussed at some length last week was the question of prices control. I do not know when the Opposition will sort out precisely what it is that it is proposing as its prices policy. The honourable member for Adelaide quoted an extract from the policy of the Australian Labor Party in South Australia. He read it out in a very dutiful way, complying with the letter of the Party's policy. But it left me none the wiser. I do not know whether what the Australian Labor Party is advocating is strict prices control by bureaucrats or whether it is advocating the establishment of some sort of prices justification tribunal. I am not an economist. For all I know, some justification may exist for the establishment of a body of that nature. What I am very much opposed to is the proposal put forward in simple, bald terms by the honourable member for Lalor last week, namely, the introduction of prices control. He almost used those words. He almost said that the Australian Labor Party would introduce prices control. This is just another example of the attitude adopted tonight in regard to this Bill to restore the investment allowance. The Opposition would say 'We will decide what will be done in manufacturing industry. We will decide which industries receive the allowance and which do not receive it. We will decide the criteria that will be used to determine whether the allowance will be made'. I do not know how any manufacturer would be able to plan ahead on that basis. For instance, if a Labor government were in power and the manufacturer required new plant and equipment, would the Labor government give its approval? Would it say: Yes, we approve of what this manufacturer is involved in. We will allow the investment allowance to be granted.' Or would the manufacturer be in doubt as to whether the allowance would be granted to him? Of course, he would be in doubt. I suggest that the consequence of that would be that manufacturers would be hesitant to acquire plant and equipment and that the investment allowance would not operate in the way in which it is now designed to operate, namely, to encourage the use of better plant and equipment and to increase and improve productivity in this country. 
I conclude on this note: On 2 occasions in these comments tonight we have heard 3 indications of what the Labor Party would do if it were the government.It would use a grace and favour implementation of the tariff; it would implement strict prices control without any qualifications, according to the honourable member for Lalor; and it would distribute in a pork barrel way the benefits that are given across the board under this legislation to all manufacturers in the country. I suggest that that is a warning. I suggest that those who are engaged in business in this country and those who are concerned with manufacturing should look very closely at some of the speeches made by the members of the Opposition and decide what is preferable. They have 2 alternatives: Firstly, if they acquire plant and equipment according to the strict tests under the formula laid out in the legislation, they know that the money they expend will be deductible. Irrespective of any grace and favour criterion, that deduction would be allowed. The second alternative is:If a Labor Government introduced the policies as outlined by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports tonight, whether manufacturers were allowed the deduction would depend purely and simply on grace and favour. It would depend purely and simply on the criterion selected by a government to decide particular cases of their own choosing. I suggest that that would be very unfortunate for the manufacturing industry of this country. It would be very unfortunate for the development of the manufacturing industry in this country and for the improvement and expansion of productivity in this country. Accordingly, I support the legislation and I oppose the amendment introduced by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Crean's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
My question, which genuinely is without any notice whatsoever, is directed to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition as the member who within standing order 143 has charge of a Bill before the House, namely the National Service Bill 1971. 1 ask the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition: Does section 51 of the National Service Act provide for an offence of failing to comply with a call up notice, or draft dodging? Secondly, does the Bill of which the honourable member has charge propose to amend that section of the Act by imposing an additional penalty of one years's  imprisonment for that offence? Thirdly, if draft dodging is not an offence, as has been alleged by the Leader of the Opposition, can the honourable member explain to the House why his Bill proposes a penalty of one year's imprisonment for it? 
After hearing the 3 speeches by the speakers on the Government side in this debate there is really very little else that remains to be explained. I would have thought that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  and the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  had given an ample and satisfactory explanation to the House on the few points that had been raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  who led for the Opposition in this debate. In reply to the first point, that is the rationalisation for the merger of the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, I thought the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Supply made the position very clear. They said that this proposed merger has been under consideration and close examination and that a report had been prepared on the feasibility of the proposal. That report, of course, was received by the Minister for Supply only last Friday. This Government is extremely competent, but it is not within the realms of possibility for the Government to absorb such a detailed and involved report on such an important matter and to reach a decision in a couple of days. 
As I listened to the argument on this part of the issue I was reminded of the last matter of public importance that I debated in this House following the concrete pipes decision in the High Court of Australia. That decision was handed down by the High Court on a Friday and lo and behold on the following Tuesday we were landed with a matter of public importance berating the Government for not having legislated to the full extent of its powers which had been elucidated by the High Court only 3 or 4 days before. These things take time. My saying that is not an evasive tactic by any means. These things are important; they are involved and they take time to investigate. I have no doubt that the Government will be looking at the report on the proposed merger with all the attention and care that it deserves and that in due course a reasonable decision will be made. It is under consideration and no doubt a decision will be made fairly scon as to what the Government believes is in the best interests of the aircraft industry in Australia so far as this proposed amalgamation or merger is concerned. 
As to the terms of the matter of public importance itself the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  indicated that what he was basically concerned about was the proposed amalgamation or merger. I do not want to misquote the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition on this occasion or on any other occasion, but it did seem to me that he did not say unequivocally whether or not the Opposition supported the amalgamation or merger. There were a number of conditions or a number of qualifications. I for one would like to know specifically what the view of the Opposition is on this proposal. I understand that there is yet to be one more  speaker  from the Opposition side in this debate and no doubt he will, in view of the fact that I have invited the Opposition lo do it, state clearly whether or not it supports the amalgamation. I would like to know. 
The other matter that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition quite rightly drew attention to was Project N. This is a project that deserves having attention focused on it. But here again the Minister for Supply gave what I would consider, looking at it objectively, a reasonable response, namely that this also is something which involves millions and millions of dollars. It is something of very great importance to the whole aircraft industry in Australia. This is under consideration, and as the Minister said, an announcement will be made in due course. But there were overtones in some of the comments made by some members of the Opposition that the Government perhaps had been less than frank or less than detailed in giving information to the country about the aircraft industry. However, the material is available in such publications as the 'Defence Report 1971' and Supply 1971'. If you look at the report of the Department of Supply for 1971, as well as a lot of very interesting pictures, you will see a very detailed account of the various ramifications in the aircraft industry in Australia, at least on the military side. You will see details of the programme for the construction of helicopters, details of the Jindivik programme, details of the work that has been done on the construction of the Macchi aircraft - which is virtually completed as I understand it - and you will also see details about the Mirage. 
The Minister for Supply recently made an announcement on the sale to Brazil of $20m worth of Ikara missiles. I do not think enough credit has been given to the 
Minister for Supply and the officers in his Department on arranging this contract. I would like to take this opportunity of congratulating him and his Department on the work that has gone into this particular project, the negotiations and indeed the result. It is good for the industry because it must give confidence to the industry. It is good purely and simply in economic terms. The Minister for Supply also indicated the work with respect to the Turana and he said that fairly soon there would be a replacement for the Winjeel. Of course, more work would be involved in this so far as the aircraft industry is concerned. If you look at the raw material the information is there and it has been made available by the Government, so I would reject the charge that the Government has not given sufficient details and information about the aircraft industry. 
Finally, may I make reference to one point that arose in a running exchange during the debate, namely the amount of money expended on defence equipment contracts in Australia compared with what has been spent overseas. If you look at the figures it is very clear that in recent years the percentage of the defence contract vote spent within Australia has been increasing. If I may just refer briefly to some of the statistics, you will see that, for instance, in the year 1968-69 expenditure in Australia on defence equipment contracts was $193m whereas considerably more was spent overseas, namely $245m. However, the trend was reversed in the following year and also last year. In 1969-70 there was in fact more money spent within Australia than there was overseas, a clear reversal of that trend. An amount of Si 84m was spent on defence equipment contracts within Australia in that year and only $150m was spent outside Australia. Last year, 1970-71, $171m was expended within Australia and much less than that, namely $115m, was expended overseas. This is a definite trend that is borne out on the figures. I think it is fair to say that it is a very commendable trend, that the percentage of expenditure within Australia is increasing compared with expenditure overseas. That is a trend which I for one would like to see continued. With those few remarks may I say that this matter of public importance raised by the Opposition has in my view been amply replied to by Government speakers and it seems to me quite clearly that the argument fails. 
 I move: 
That this House deplores statements by the Leader of the Opposition that tend to encourage and condone breaches of the laws of this Parliament. 
The purpose of this motion is to make it abundantly clear to the people of Australia tha: the Leader Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and his Party are supporting and encouraging breaches of the law made by the elected representatives of the people in the Commonweath Parliament. The facts on which this motion is based are quite simple: The Leader of the Opposition has asserted p publiciy that it is not an offence to break a particular law. That law is the National Service Act. On 28 February 1972- last Monday - the Leader of the Opposition was interviewed on the radio. 1 was fortunate enough to hear that interview. The interviewer asked him about a candidate of his Party who was being sought by the police and described as a draft dodger. The Leader of the Opposition used these words in reply: 
Welt, draft dodging is not a crime. I am not going to assume that this man has broken any law. 
Everyone knows, as the Leader of the Opposition knew, what was meant by draft dodging. Everyone knows that draft dodging, right or wrong, a good law or a bad law, is illegal. But the interviewer gave the Leader of the Opposition another chance and said: 
You say that draft dodging is not a crime. 
The Leader of the Opposition replied: 
How do you define draft dodging? Look, cut out all the nonsense about this. After this next election there will be no draft. 
Here was a clear opportunity for the Leader of the Opposition to say that the law would be changed if the Australian Labour Party formed a government but that, until then, it was the law that call-up notices had to be complied with because the law said so. But the Leader of the Opposition did not recant.  His  statement was that draft dodging was not a crime. It was a simple, straightforward, unequivocal statement. 
There are 2 vices in that statement and it is on those 2 vices that this motion is based. The first point is that draft dodging is an offence. It is an offence because section 51 of the National Service Act says so That section provides that where a notice has, that is, a call-up notice - whether before or after the commencement of the National Service Act 1968, been served on a person under section 26 of this Act and the person fails after the commencement of that Act to comply with the requirements of the notice, the person is guilty of an offence punishable, upon conviction, in accordance with the next succeeding sub-section. The law says quite clearly and without any doubt at all that failure to comply with a call-up notice is an offence. The Leader of the Opposition says that it is not. This is an extraordinary discrepancy. It is discreditable in the extreme for an alternative Prime Minister to pretend that any provision of the law does not exist. 
But the second vice is even worse, for the Leader of the Opposition is making it plain to all who care to listen that he does not regard draft dodging as an offence, no matter what the law says. What effect is this intended to have on those affected by the National Service Act and who are subject to operation of that Act? 1 would suggest that the only fair interpretation to be placed on the words is that they are calculated to encourage those people to ignore the law. If there is any other interpretation open on the words 1 would like to hear what it is. It is one thing to urge people, voters and nonvoters, to work for a change of government so that the law can be changed, lt is another quite different and discreditable thing to encourage citizens to ignore the law or to break it. If that is not the case here there is ample opportunity for the Leader of the Opposition to explain to the House and to the nation what he did mean by those clear words: 'Draft dodging is not a crime'. 
The Australian Labor Party Federal Conference seems to think that we are dealing with an offence. A resolution from the ALP Launceston Conference in 1971 stated that 2 men whose names were given are 'Due to face court proceedings on Friday. 18th June for breaches of the National Service Act which could result in 2 year terms of imprisonment'. Contrast those words,  Mr Speaker,  with the Leader pf the Opposition's words: 'Draft dodging is not a crime'. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  certainly knows that we are dealing with an offence. He has a Bill in his own name on the notice paper to amend the National Service Act. I find it inconceivable that this Bill was intended to do anything other than set out what changes the Opposition would make to the National Service Act. Did the  Deputy 
Leader of the Opposition propose to remove the offence of draft dodging? Not a bit of it.  His  amendment, which was consequent upon other amendments, was to insert an additional penalty of 1 year's imprisonment for the very offence I am talking about, draft dodging. Contrast those words,  Mr Speaker,  with the words: 'Draft dodging is not a crime'. The young man concerned in this matter regards draft dodging as an offence, and to his credit he is proud of it. He said in a television interview this Monday, 28th February: 
Well, if the warrant was carried out I'd be taken to court and gaoled for the 18 months' term. 
Again,  Sir, contrast  those words with the Leader of the Opposition's words: 'Draft dodging is not a crime'. Perhaps the inconsistencies can be explained. Perhaps the Leader of the Opposition meant something else. But what concerns me is the sheer pretence of it all - the pretence, merely by asserting it, that a provision in an Act passed by this Parliament in some way no longer has any effect, that some lofty dispensation has been given, and above all the clear innuendo that people subject to the National Service Act need not comply with it because the Leader of the Opposition has decided that there is no offence. 
Worse than that, it is nonsense according to the Leader of the Opposition to suggest that draft dodging is a crime. Honourable members will recall that when the interviewer asked the Leader of the Opposition: You say that draft dodging is not a crime?' he replied: 'How do you define draft dodging? Look, cut out all the nonsense about this. After this election there will be no draft'. So it is nonsense apparently that the law still stands, nonsense that there is an offence, nonsense that the law should be complied with, and apparently good sense for the Leader of the Opposition openly to pretend that the National Service Act does not create an offence and to encourage people not to comply with that law. 
I do not know what will be said in reply to all this. It may be said that the Leader of the Opposition was not referring to the law in general but only to the particular case of the man in question, who has not yet appeared in court. We have heard a lot of trivia from the Opposition in recent days about credibility. If the Leader of the Opposition asks us to believe that when he said draft dodging was not an offence in all the bald simplicity of that statement, he really meant not that at all but that one individual man is not guilty of draft dodging until he is convicted, then that stretches credibility to breaking point. I frankly find it incredible. And whether the man in question is guilty of an offence under section 51 of the National Service Act or not, the fact is that there is a warrant which has been issued for his arrest. The time has come for a clear statement on whether the Leader of the Opposition and his Party support this evasion of an arrest warrant or not. The young man himself clearly believes that he has the support of the Leader of the Opposition in what he is doing. When interviewed on the television programme he was asked: 
But how do you think  Mr Whitlam  feels about your candidacy?' 
He replied: 
I've mct Gough on this and he's always been most friendly and has vocally supported me.' 
If that statement was not accurate then it should be corrected and there is an opportunity for it to be corrected. But perhaps it is said - and it has been said in the Senate - that it is all the Attorney-General's fault for pursuing the matter and for making statements about it. I would remind honourable members opposite of the statement contained in chapter 33 of their own federal platform which sets out the functions of the AttorneyGeneral: 
The Attorney-General of the Commonwealth and public officers under his control to investigate breaches of Commonwealth law and to initiate proceedings for enforcement of laws, especially in areas such as consumer protection where such an action is beyond the resources of the citizen. 
In other words the platform clearly sets out that this is the very function of the AttorneyGeneral, namely to investigate breaches of the Commonwealth law, to pursue them and to institute proceedings where appropriate. That is the situation, the beginning and the end of the role of the Attorney-General in this matter. He has gone no further than the constitutional convention requires and obliges him to go in the fulfilment of his high office. 
The vice - perhaps the third vice - of this whole matter and, I suppose, why the matter is raised at this stage, is that it is not, as the lawyers say, a first offence. I do not seek to minimise the first offence. It was very serious indeed. The matter was debated at some length in this House and throughout the nation in September 1970 and they were the very serious statements made by the Leader of the Opposition in which he indicated that his view was that in certain circumstances young men subject to the National Service Act should not obey the law. Let me quote and it is wise that it should be quoted again to remind honourable members of what has gone before this most recent incident from what the Leader of the Opposition said on that occasion; 
I told the Caucus that if I were asked by a man. who objected to the Vietnam war as to the course he should take I would give this advice: He should register and at the time of doing so give written advice that if he was inducted and ordered to go to Vietnam he would not obey that order. If he was balloted in then he should present himself for his medical examination and if found fit and should be inducted, then he should give written advice that if he was ordered to go to Vietnam he would not obey the order. 
With obvious clarity and with the intention to confirm the matter and remove any doubt of interpretation whatsoever, the same statements and similar statements were repeated several times in the same interview. The Leader of the Opposition was asked: 
You should  give  written advice again that  it- 
He answered: 
That  if be was  ordered  to go  to Vietnam he would  not obey that order. 
Again he said in answer to a question: 
He should  obey  up to that point and then disobey. He should  at  the time he registers and the time he is inducted, he should give written advice that if he is ordered to go to Vietnam he will not obey the order. 
That was bad enough. The whole matter was debated and of course the House indicated its opinion, and the nation itself indicated its opinion of this incitement and encouragement to break the law. As if that were not enough, we have seen over recent days and I have referred to transcripts of evidence in support of this again the same type of advice, the same comment coming from someone who holds himself out to be an alternative Prime Minister of this country. I believe that it is reprehensible for a person in the position of the Leader of the Opposition to say to the nation whether with respect to the National Service Act or with respect to any other statute that has been passed by this Parliament and particularly to say to the people who are subject to the law itself:'There is no offence. You need not worry about it. Do not obey the law.' That is the basis of this motion and I urge the House to support it. 
My question to the Prime Minister concerns proposals by the State to hold a constitutional convention to modernise the Constitution. Will the Prime Minister assure the House that the Commonwealth will give full support and encouragement to the holding of this convention? Secondly, will he endeavour to have at the convention representation of local government authorities to give them an independent voice in decisions which directly affect the activities of local government which are so close to the people? Above all, will the Prime Minister ensure that at the convention every attempt is made by the Commonwealth, in cooperation with the States, to have allocated to the Commonwealth the full powers it needs in modern times to carry out its responsibilities? 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  a great deal of the speech that we have just heard from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  was concerned with an Australian schools commission which, according to him, has been proposed by the Opposition and is its solution to most of the education problems facing Australia. Perhaps he would excuse my doubt about the matter as to exactly how serious the Opposition is with this proposal, because when I look at public statements made by various spokesmen from the Opposition on this matter. I have some lingering doubt in my mind whether this really is the proposal that is being made by the Opposition. One can see a number of curious inconsistencies in statements from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and the honourable member in this House who has just been referred to as the Opposition's spokesman on education - the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley). 
I do not want to take too much of the time of the House unduly to explore these curious inconsistencies, but 3 short statements from the Opposition made within 9 days seem to make it apparent that the Opposition simply has no specific policy on whether or not this commission should be established and, if so, on what methods it will adopt to distribute government support for independent schools. The first of these statements is the one by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate who, on 1st December 1971, quoted a provision in the Australian Labor Party's platform for the establishment of an Australian schools commission. That is apparently going to work it all out for us. The part of the platform quoted by  Senator Murphy  reads as follows: 
In making recommendations for such grants to the States, the Commission shall have regard to - 
the primary obligation of governments to provide and maintain government school systems of the highest standard open to all children. 

 Senator Murphy explained what he meant by this by saying: 'That means government schools first.' The following day the Leader of the Opposition in this House took the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr MalcolmFraser)  to task for alleging that this schools commission would, as the Minister said, give assistance to government schools before it gave any to nongovernment schools. This would seem to me to be exactly the proposition put forward by  Senator Murphy  in different words. But according to the Leader of the Opposition himself, that is a wrong principle because, as he said: 
It may be that there are some non-government schools which fall further short on acceptable standards and have larger class sizes than government schools. 
In other words, it is not a case of 'that means government schools first', as  Senator Murphy  put it, but rather a case of 'perhaps non-government schools will come first but perhaps they will not'. I wish the Opposition would make up its mind about this matter. 
Finally, confusion was even worse confounded by the honourable member for Fremantle who, on 9th December last year, seemed to abandon the whole concept of the schools commission and advocated rather the establishment of separate authorities in each State, one for Catholic schools and one for other independent schools. Clearly, that proposal is quite inconsistent with the proposal for an Australian schools commission which, as it was put forward by the Leader of the Opposition, is to concern itself with all schools throughout the nation. Whether intended or not, at least the honourable member for Fremantle's proposal recognises the hopelessness of the task that his Leader would give to the schools commission. That is indeed a most curious collection of statements from the Opposition's spokesmen with, on the one hand, the Leader of the Opposition saying 'This is the proposal of the Opposition' and, on the other, his own spokesman on education saying 'It is not, and rather there should be separate authorities established in each State of the Commonwealth.' That, as I said, gives me very much doubt indeed as to whether the schools commission is the proposal of the Opposition on education in Australia. 
The other very curious matter that has been referred to by the Opposition, which again causes me some doubt as to exactly how closely the Opposition has studied this matter, is the assertion by the Leader of the Opposition that the needs commission, as it exists and operates in South Australia, is a model for the way in which the needs principle would operate at a Federal level. He looked at the system operating in South Australia and said: 'This is the model.' It is not as if he left it there. On 23rd February this year he said: 
The fact is, since the Minister mentions this, that in South Australia the neediest schools get more per pupil from the State Government than any school gets per pupil from any other State government 
It is not surprising, as the Leader of the Opposition said that, that he should also have said: 'Here is the model. This is the ideal situation in South Australia, because in South Australia the neediest schools get more per head of the population in the schools than in any other State.' Let us look at exactly what they do get in South 
Australia, and see whether or not it is the model that should be followed. In South Australia a $10 payment is made with respect to each pupil, and over and above that there are additional payments, calculated allegedly on this needs basis. And what is the result? Let us look at the neediest schools, those that have reached absolutely rock bottom. They are the schools that need the greatest aid. The pupils in those schools receive $34 per annum, including the basic $10. The extra $24 is paid because they are the neediest schools. They are as I said, at rock bottom. 
This is the model, as the honourable member for Mitchell has said. Going up and further away from these neediest schools, the amounts are $30 a head, then $15 a head, and the best schools apparently receive only $10. The most that is paid under this model system to the schools that are the neediest of all is $34 a head and that, as the Leader of the Opposition is quoted in Hansard as saying, is more than they receive in any other State of the Commonwealth. In New South Wales they receive $50. In Victoria they receive $40. In Queensland they receive $45 per head of population in a school per annum. Only in Western Australia and Tasmania do they receive less. In other words, in South Australia the neediest schools - those that are most deserving, those to which the needs commission has been most generous - are given less than in any State except Western Australia and Tasmania. And this is the model that is held out by the Opposition to the country as a model that should be followed in the Federal sphere. 
Let me turn to another aspect of the matter which is just as serious and which concerns trie very much indeed. That is the statement by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition that beyond any doubt at all the Opposition has now accepted at least the principle of Government support for independent schools. An interesting document has just been published, emanating from the Senate. It is a report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts. That body looked at the Commonwealth's role in teacher education. One of the interesting aspects of the report is the dissenting report by 2 
Opposition senators,  Senator James  McClelland and  Senator Milliner.  I will not quote the whole thing, but what those 2 gentlemen said in their report, amongst other things, was: 
We are not satisfied that a case has been made out to the Committee for additional Commonwealth assistance to non-government teacher training institutions. 
This is an extraordinary proposition coming from a party that, according to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, has accepted the principle beyond any doubt. The 2 senators went on in the dissenting report to say: 
There are different reasons for rejecting the plea for more Commonwealth assistance for Catholic teacher training institutions. 
Successive Commonwealth Governments have accepted the principle of 'State Aid' to Catholic schools and, whatever may be the philosophical merits of this principle, it is not in question in considering the subject which the Committee is charged by the Senate to consider, namely what should be the role of the Commonwealth In regard to teacher education throughout Australia. 
When they come to the part about government and Catholic schools and the situation with respect to training teachers for those schools - it is interesting when I read this paragraph to recall the absurd allegation made by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, that the Government is endeavouring to divide the community on this matter - they say: 
No persuasive reasons were advanced to the Committee as to why the maintenance of the Catholic school system should demand separate training of its teachers. The provision of continuing religious indoctrination which is undoubtedly prized by Catholics- 
I wonder who is endeavouring to divide the community - and which is their main justification for the perpetuation of their separate school system, is a matter to be entrusted to their own religious orders, and should not, in fact probably cannot under the Constitution, be a matter with which the Commonwealth Government can concern itself. 
Those statements seem to me to cast very much doubt on the proposition put forward by the Opposition that it accepts the principle of government aid for independent schools. Here above all in one of the most pressing areas of concern in education - teacher training - when there is such a desperate need for teachers and for better trained teachers, particularly in independent schools and particularly in the Catholic schools, we have 2 Opposition senators saying: 'It is Catholic indoctrination and nothing else, and we will not have anything to do with the Commonwealth giving any aid at all to encourage and train teachers who are going to teach in these particular schools'. Again there is a most curious inconsistency in the statements coming from the Opposition on this matter. Then we can look at what happens when the Labor Party has an opportunity to do something about it, an opportunity when Labor is in State government to put into practice the principles which its supporters say they will apply if they form a Federal government. 
Due, I would suggest, to the wise decision of the Government in February this year at the Premiers Conference very substantial amounts of money were made available to the States. It was made quite clear, among other things, that this money should be devoted to building and housing, particularly in the field of education. It is interesting to see which of the State Governments have devoted part of that money to education, how much of it 'has been devoted to education and which of the governments have not devoted any or perhaps only small amounts for education. In New South Wales about 20 per cent of this money has gone into education. In Victoria about 29 per cent has gone into education. As yet we have no return from Queensland. Tasmania has put 35 per cent of the money into education. But what about the model State of South Australia which of course has a Labor government in office? South Australia used 9 per cent for education. It is nothing like the 20 per cent which was devoted by the non-Labor governments in other States? And the grand result of all is in Western Australia where not one cent has been devoted to education. I think that these facts should cast doubts in some minds as to how serious the Opposition is about the implementation of these proposals in the field of education because here is proof of the pudding. This is an opportunity for Labor to put its policies into practice. 
When I mentioned Western Australia it makes me wonder about one thing - and of course there is a Labor government in office in that State - and that is that the Labor government in that State in its wisdom distributes Government aid to independent schools on a per capita basis across the board. The Western Australian Government has introduced one Budget since Labor came to power in that State. That was a chance to change that system and put into practice the glowing principles that have come from the Leader of the Opposition and his supporters but Labor has not done it in Western Australia. I wonder why. I issue a challenge to the Opposition to explain to me why, if it is such a desirable system, it has not been implemented in Western Australia. I ask further: What will happen if there is a Labor government in the Federal Parliament? Will the Opposition have the system of distribution across the board in Western Australia and a system of distribution by the needs commission or whatever it will be called in the Federal sphere? If so, how will the 2 work together? I would be interested in some answers to these questions from subsequent Opposition speakers in this debate. 
In dealing with what Government supporters have said in this debate I would remind the House of 3 challenges issued by the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  to the Leader of the Opposition. The 3 challenges were pertinent and relevant but they have gone completely unanswered by the Leader of the Opposition who as far as I could see - and I mean no offence - merely gave one of the normal speeches that he makes on this subject. The 3 challenges were: Firstly, to affirm the right of every child to assistance. That is an important challenge. It is not just a debating point. It is an important challenge because I would suggest that Opposition members who are taking part in this debate should make up their minds as to whether they accept the principle that every child in Australia has a right to be assisted by the Government in his education. If honourable members opposite accept that right then I ask them: 'How dare you seek to derogate from that right by diminishing the amount that any child in Australia may receive from the Government? If you end up giving them no assistance you will deny the right entirely and to the extent to which you diminish the amount paid with respect to any child in Australia so too you will correspondingly diminish your recognition of that right.' 
That is a challenge which was issued by -the Minister for Housing and it has gone unanswered. I join in the request for an answer to that challenge. 
Secondly, the Minister for Housing asked the Leader of the Opposition to recant from the absurd proposition that South Australia is a model for the distribution of state aid. I trust that I have demonstrated that that is, as I have described it, an absurd proposition. I am still interested to know how the Leader of the Opposition sought to justify the proposition. Thirdly, the Minister called on the Leader of the Opposition to cease dividing children and their parents along the lines that he outlined. This is where the nub is. This is where the division comes. I suggest that it is an attempt to divide the community into those who send their children to government schools and those who do not. It is as simple as that. Within that division there is perhaps an even more pernicious and more dangerous division and that is the division between parents who send their children to Catholic schools and those who send them to Protestant schools. That, as I have said, is .an even more pernicious division and I and the Government will  have . nothing of it. After all that is the answer to the argument that has been raised month after month in this place, the argument that aid to independent schools should be distributed upon a needs basis. How can this Government or the Opposition if it forms the government or any government, unless there is the ridiculous situation as there is in South Australia, allow the accusation to be made, whether it is true or not, that it is supporting schools conducted by one religion and not supporting schools conducted by another religion? It does not matter whether the accusation is valid or not. No government can be put in the position where the accusation could even be made. 
There were many other matters that I wished to draw attention to but time is against me in this debate. I will refer very briefly to some of them. Firstly, I welcome very much the provisions of this legislation, particularly the provision that increases per capita grants to independent schools to $50  a  year for primary school pupils and $68  a  year for secondary school pupils. I think this is a further recognition by the Government of the very important role played in education by independent school authorities. I think the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  summed it up very well when he announced the increased grant earlier this year and said that the increased grant recognised independent schools in many cases had been obliged to pay their teaching staff salaries that were significantly lower than those paid in government schools despite the fact that there were awards which had been made and which obliged them to pay higher salaries. The Prime Minister also indicated that there were serious impediments to an expansion in the independent schools sector, particularly in the primary school field. As I have said, one could go on and refer to many other aspects of this matter. 
Finally I want merely to pay some regard to some representations that I believe have been sent to all honourable members or at least honourable members representing Victorian electorates. The representations were sent by the Parents and Friends Federation of Victoria. I think the Federation put the matter fairly and squarely in perspective, and it has I think given a completely and wholly satisfactory answer to the allegation that the Government is already under the present system paying far too much to independent schools. What is the position in Victoria? The Victorian State Government spends $333 a year on primary school pupils and $31.50 for children in non-government schools. Is that an unjust system? Is that unfair? I think not. In the secondary field it is $607 as against $70. Is this lining the pockets of the rich, as the argument is always being put by the Opposition? It is not. The total payments made in Victoria by the State Government and by the Commonwealth Government for a primary school pupil is $81.50. That is what is paid for each pupil in an independent primary school and including the new grant it amounts to $155 in the case of the secondary school pupil. It is an absurd argument to suggest that the Government has been paying far too much to independent schools. I suggest it is a proper recognition of the role played by independent schools in the community and a proper recognition of the contribution that independent schools make and have made for many years to education in this country. 
Can the Prime Minister advise the House whether recent economic measures announced by  Mr Barber,  the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the United 
Kingdom, show what might be described as a healthy outward looking policy at this time, particularly towards the Commonwealth and particularly significant as the United Kingdom approaches European Common Market membership? Did the Prime Minister advocate such a policy attitude when he was in the United Kingdom, and can he say in that case whether Australia's voice is still respected overseas in such important matters despite extravagant statements by some persons that might have an opposite effect? 
I am indebted to the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  for his indulgence. He put the problem very concisely in his opening few sentences of the substantial part of his speech - not the part where he was more concerned with making comments about the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  The honourable member said that the Bill before the House at the moment basically accepts the Australian Labor Party point of view and indicates support by the Opposition for the principle of payment of pensions overseas. That surely is the vice - I do not think that is too strong a word - that surely is the basis of the reason why the Government cannot accept the legislation. The Bill does that, and no more. It merely indicates the support for a principle, and no more. The Government likewise supports that principle. Where the difference lies between the Government and the Opposition is on this point, that the Opposition seems to think that to put into the Bill a subscription to a principle is sufficient justification for passing the Bill before us in this form. In other words, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and those who are supporting him on this legislation seem to me at least to be saying that this is the principle, the Bill embodies this principle and that, therefore, is good enough. I would suggest it is not good enough in respect of this legislation or indeed of any other legislation. 
People's rights will be determined and assessed under this Bill if it becomes legislation. The Australian Treasury will be paying out very substantial sums of money under it and, not only in that respect but also in every other respect, it is important that the whole operation of the scheme that the Opposition wants implemented is spelt out. What the Government is endeavouring to convey to the Opposition is precisely and simply this: This Bill which the Opposition puts before us today and asks us to vote upon and pass today does not spell out the details of the scheme in anywhere near the degree of detail that is necessary. That is a principle which should apply not only to this Bill but to any legislation that comes before the House; and it is the reason why I for one cannot accept the Bill in this form. 
One point which is common ground between the Leader of the Opposition and his supporters and the Government is that we all support the general principle. In case there is any doubt about the Government's subscription to this principle, I refer briefly to 2 statements, one by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and one by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  which make it very clear that this principle is supported by the Government and that it will be operated upon. The first statement is that made by the Prime Minister when he announced that the principle bad been accepted. He said: 
My Government has decided to accept the principle of payment of pensions overseas. 
He went on: 
It had before it- 
The Government, that is - a submission from the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and the report of an interdepartmental committee which was completed late last year. 
We decided that age, invalid and widow's pensions should be payable in those overseas countries which made corresponding arrangements for their own pensions to be payable in Australia. 
I will not repeat any more of the statement made by the Prime Minister but I would suggest that what I have read is by itself enough to make the point that the Government does support the principle. The Minister for Social Services in a more detailed statement indicated likewise that this was a principle which the Government supported and would act upon. The Minister in his announcement referred to the decision that had already been made on the principle, and went on to say that preliminary contacts had been made with the representatives of several foreign governments through their embassies in Canberra. What the Minister said is important; it is germane to the whole issue under debate. He said: 
Australian pensions will be payable overseas in those countries which are prepared to make corresponding arrangements for their own . pensions to be payable in Australia. 
Obviously this is an involved matter; it is a detailed matter and the honourable member for Prospect quite rightly, I say with respect to him, raised one of the detailed issues, namely, that reciprocity is an important principle that should be subscribed to in this case. However, before I come to that, could I say briefly with reference to the statement made by the Minister for Social Services that he indicated that there were 3 stipulations which had so far been decided upon as the criteria for determining whether a pension would be payable overseas. These were, firstly, that the person concerned had to be receiving a pension in Australia before his departure. The second principle was that he had to be going to live in a country which had a reciprocal agreement. The third principle was that he had to have lived in Australia for at least 20 years after reaching the age of 16 years, except in the case of a widow whose husband died in Australia, or in the case of a person receiving a pension through invalidity which occurred in Australia. In those 2 cases, he said, there would not be a residence requirement. 
Today the Minister has gone on and has made it clear to anyone who has cared to listen and to pay attention to what he said 
There are 3 important points. The first is, as the Minister indicated, that this Bill applies only to Australian citizens. It is therefore more restrictive than the present rights as at present there is not that confinement in all cases to Austraiian citizenship as the criterion. We suggest that that is a restriction in this proposal. It is an unfair and unnecessary restriction. Why should there be a restriction of this nature on citizens? I suggest that at no time during any of the preceding speeches in this debate has a satisfactory answer been given to this question. 
The second important point is the reciprocity argument to which the honourable member for Prospect referred. He gave the example of Germany. Surely the clear answer to that example is, as he put in his own words, that pensions from West Germany are paid only to Germans who retain their nationality. The honourable member for Prospect does not seem to be interested. Perhaps there is no need for me to concern myself any further with the points that he has raised. In addition to the case of Germany which is, I still maintain, a valid example of justification for the reciprocity argument, I would refer him to the requirements in France. My authority is a volume publised by the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare which I obtained from the Parliamentary Library. The pension requirements of France are set out in it. The volume states clearly: 
Pensions not paid aliens while abroad, unless reciprocal agreement. 
I will look up the details on Nigeria, if the honourable member wishes. We could go on and look up the requirements of all other countries, but surely the gravamen of the Minister's remarks was that one does not go abroad and say in negotiations with a foreign country: 'We have given away by the passage of legislation all the arguing points with which we were to negotiate and to bargain.' One. does not do that and expect to get a satisfactory result. 
I come now to the third important point. Again I thought that the Minister explained this with his usual eloquence and clarity. It is hardly necessary for me to add to what he said. However, put briefly this is a proposal to deal with very large sums of the taxpayers' money. The legislation has to be framed in such a way that there is no opportunity for abuse and that there are no loopholes which will enable people to come, for instance, from the United Kingdom or New Zealand to stay for a short time, qualify for a pension, and then go to their former country to receive it. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I admire and respect your discretion in the matter,  Mr Acting Speaker.  Now that this debate is to continue after the Opposition's rather regrettable attempt to gag it, let me address a few remarks on the subject. It is only fair and proper that I should say at the outset that my personal position is that in principle I support the lowering of the voting age from 21 to 18 years. On this subject there are very substantial arguments on both sides. When one looks at the evidence and weighs up the issues involved I believe that one should come down in favour of the proposition that the franchise should be granted to those of 18 years of age. Before I develop that at more length let me direct a few remarks to some of the matters that were raised in this debate by earlier speakers. I want to refer to 2 matters raised by the 
Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  one raised by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  and one raised by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt). 
Honourable members will recall that during the debate the Leader of the Opposition suggested that the Government had abandoned the principle altogether. He said that although the Government at one stage might have supported the lowering of the voting age to 18 it had now abandoned that principle, no longer supported it and would do everything it could to prevent the voting age being lowered to 18 years. So far as I am aware there is no abandonment of the matter of principle; so far as I am aware there is no great division of opinion within Government ranks on this matter; and so far as I am concerned, and I say this quite openly, there is a quite substantial body of opinion on this side of the House in support of the proposition, although I recognise at the same time that there are people who hold a contrary view. So there is no abandonment of the principle. As I said at the outset, I certainly support it. 
The second matter to which I want to draw attention, arising from comments made by the Leader of the Opposition, is his call for a free vote on this matter. 
As the Leader of the Opposition said, there are people who have views on this matter and there are people on this side of the House - I have said I am one - who support the principle. So the Leader of the Opposition says: 'Let us have a free vote'. The honourable member for Batman  (Mr Garrick),  my electoral neighbour in the city of Melbourne, asked me by way of interjection whether I would go over on this issue. I presume he means would I vote for the Bill. I certainly would vote for it. 
The honourable member for Stuart whose contributions in these debates seem to be confined to puerile interjections, asks why I did not vote for it. I remind him that the issue being voted on in the last division was the attempt by the Opposition to gag the debate. It is not a vote on the substantive issue. If he wants to know whether I would support the Bill, let me say that I certainly would be glad to support the principle of it. The Leader of the Opposition said: 'Let us have a free vote'. I remind him that on another matter only a few weeks ago we on this side of the House were saying 'Let us have a free vote on the issue of the abolition of capital punishment'. Of course the Opposition would not allow a free vote on that issue. Does this mean that there are to be free votes on some issues of conscience and principle and not free votes on others? If it does mean that, does it mean also that the Opposition is to decide which are the issues on which there will be a free vote and which are issues on which there is not to be a free vote? If it is a valid argument that there should be a free vote on the lowering of the voting age, and I agree that a substantial case can be made out for that argument, what is the case against a free vote on the issue of capital punishment and its abolition? 
I come now to the honourable member for Grayndler and the contribution that he made to the debate. I say at the outset that I agree almost exclusively with what he said. I agree with the substantial arguments that were advanced by him. He put [hem to the House in an eloquent and persuasive manner. One of. the myths in this debate concerns the argument which unfortunately was raised by the honourable member for Grayndler about servicemen. It has been said to us on the Government side by some people inside and, on occasions, outside the Parliament: 'You have a national service system. You conscript people. You send them overseas when you decide it is necessary for them to go. They are under 21 when you do that and yet you do not allow them a vote'. It has been said that if people are old enough to go into the armed Services and old enough to go overseas and defend and fight for their country they are old enough to vote. 
Let me hasten to add that I agree with that proposition. I hasten also to add that the proposition already is embodied in the legislation. I would simply draw the attention of the honourable member for Grayndler and the House to the provisions of section 39a of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. That section provides in substance that where a person who is less than 21 years of age is a member of the defence forces and is on special service, which is defined, he is entitled, provided he meets the other qualifications, to he enrolled as a voter. The term 'special service' is defined in the Act. As honourable members will appreciate, this is a reference to another Act which defines in more detail special service overseas and special areas and the substance of the provision for the legislation is that when a man is in the defence forces and is overseas in a theatre of war, if one may refer to it in that compendious way, he is entitled to be enrolled as a voter. So, as I said earlier, it is a myth; it is not true. The legislation already provides for a person in such a case to be enrolled as a voter. As 1 said, I hope that this matter raised by the honourable member for Grayndler and some people outside the House will be laid to rest once and for all. 
Another matter which concerns me about this Bill and which I find rather a peculiar provision is that although it lowers the age at which a person may be enrolled for voting, it does not lower the age at which a person may stand as a candidate for election in this Parliament. Curiously enough, although the Bill that is now before the House goes through the sections of the Commonwealth Electoral Act which refer to 21 years of age and changes them to 18 years of age, it does not change the age for candidature. I recognise that a case could be made out for the proposition that a person should be more mature than 18 years and that he should be 21 years before he takes on the high responsibility of being a member of Parliament, for it is a high responsibility. However, it would seem to me that if it is a matter of principle and if in coming to a conclusion about that matter of principle we are looking at maturing ages and what has happened to young people over the last 10 or 20 years, one should come to the conclusion that if a person is entitled to vote at the age of 18 years, as I believe he should be, he should be entitled to stand as a candidate. All the arguments that have been advanced for enabling or justifying a person to enrol as a voter at 18 years are arguments that can just as validly be put in respect of the proposition that an 18- year old should be able to stand as a candidate for election to this Parliament. I put it no higher than that - that it is curious that there should be this dichotomy in the Bill that is now before the House between the age for enrolment and the age for candidature for election to this House. 
To the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  and other honourable members who have asked me by way of interjection why I did not cast my vote in a particular way I would say it is because this is at least one inconsistency in this Bill. Members of the Opposition should not think that just because an Opposition member introduces a private member's Bill on a matter of principle that some of us support, we will automatically vote for it in the form in which it is introduced into this Parliament because that simply will not happen. I would suggest that in some of the private members' legislation that has been introduced by Opposition members in this House, it unfortunately has been loosely drawn. It has been full of inconsistencies and it has not been legislation for which we should be obliged to vote. 
I should now like to mention some remarks which were made by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt).  Of course, he made a substantial contribution to this debate and with respect and, 1 hope, politely, 1 would like to disagree with him on one matter which he mentioned during the course of his remarks. He suggested that, in view of the fact that in Australia there is compulsory voting, it would in fact be imposing an obligation and a duty on 18-year olds if this legislation were passed when in fact they may not want to vote. I suggest that there are 2 completely separate issues involved here and. with respect to the Minister, I do not think that it is an answer to the case that has been put up for 18-year old voting to say that, because voting in Australia is compulsory, if 18- year-olds were given the vote it would compel them to vote. I do not think that that is an answer. I suggest that the proper approach to take is to decide as a matter of principle whether one supports 18-year old voting and. when we decide that we do support that principle we should implement the legislation and then go on to look at the next question of compulsory voting and whether it should remain on the statute book. I suggest that they are 2 separate questions which should not be confused and which should not be used as an argument against lowering the voting age. 
They are just some remarks that I wish to address to the House with respect to some of the points that have been raised by honourable members who have spoken in the debate. I want to develop perhaps at a little more length the basic proposition, namely that although there have been advanced quite persuasive arguments from both sides of the House, nevertheless my personal view is that the voting age should be lowered. In this place in recent years there have been 2 very interesting debac.es on this issue, one in 1968 and one in 1970. I must say that I have been very compelled by the contribution that was made in 1968 by the honourable member lor Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  now the Minister for External Territories. He drew attention in his remarks in that debate to the lowering maturity age of people these days and he drew on a large number of sources which substantiated that proposition. He drew attention to the investigation by the British Committee on the Age of Majority and to the conclusions to which that Committee came. 
At the risk of taking just a couple of minutes I should like to emphasise to honourable members that the report of the Committee on the Age of Majority is a very valuable document. It was published in the United Kingdom in 1967 and the whole issue of the age of majority is examined in great detail. The Committee did not concern itself with the voting age but with all the other aspects of the age of majority. It is interesting to look at some of the conclusions to which the British Committee came. In its report under '.he heading: 'General Conclusions' it was stated firstly: 
That the historical causes for 21 are not relevant to contemporary society. 
The Committee in another conclusion said: 
That most young people today mature earlier than in the past. 
In another conclusion the Committee said: 
That by 18 most young people are ready for these responsibilities and rights and would greatly profit by them as would the teaching authorities, the business community, the administration of justice, and the community as a whole. 
They are some of the general conclusions reached by the British Committee after taking evidence and investigating the mat ter in great detail and I emphasise compendiously that its conclusions tended towards lowering the age of majority. 
When one looks at the particular recommendations that the Committee made in particular areas, one again sees consistently a recommendation for lowering the age for marriage, for wardship, for contracts, lor the inheritance of property and so on. I would strongly suggest to honourable members that they should look at in is report because it goes into the matter in great detail. Some of the particular areas where it is suggested that the age should be lowered are, as I have mentioned, marriage, wardship in children's cases, contracts and the whole area of property, where it is suggested that a person should be able to hold a legal estate in land at '.he age of 18 years. The Committee went on to concern itself with wills, income tax law and even down to details such as blood donations and passports. But the point to be made and understood by the House is that they are consistent recommendations for a lowering of the relevant age because of an earlier maturity, and this is the basic point about the whole matter. 
They are arguments for the lowering of the voting age. There are other arguments tending against the passage of this legislation in this form. I have mentioned one of them already - the fact that the age for nomination for candidates for election to this Parliament is not touched by this legislation and I would like to know why. It is not an unanswerable case. I think it deserves some reply from the Opposition. The other substantial matter - and I suppose that it is the matter on which this whole debate finally centres at this stage - is that the Government has said that the matter is detailed and involved and requires closer and more detailed examination than has been given to it so far. I emphasise that that is what has been said by the Goverment. I think it is fairly clear that a law could be passed now to lower the voting age without any more being done. It could be done as a matter of law and it would be effective as a matter of law. But the substantive point that should be understood - and I ask honourable members to try to accept this - is that there are other consequences. If the voting age is lowered to 18 years then there will be consequences in other areas of Government activity and in other areas of law. I emphasise that a law could be passed at this stage to lower the voting age, but one must go on and concede that to do so without considering the implications in other areas of law would be very unwise indeed. 
I want to mention some of the areas where legislation will have to be amended and where the whole question of the relevant age will have to be investigated before the whole matter can be completed in toto and all of these areas of law put in a consistent form on the statute book. I mention some of them: The law relating to bankruptcy, bills of exchange, employees' compensation, powers of attorney and estate duty; the whole law relating to the inheritance of property; the law relating to legal proceedings brought by infants, as they are called under the law today, although that is perhaps an unfortunate term; and the law relating to marriage, divorce proceedings concerning people under the age of 21 years, social services, superannuation and many other matters. 
As well as these substantive areas of law there is a whole range of detailed legislation which operates in the Commonwealth Territories. Clearly all of this will have to be investigated in detail and amended. My time has almost expired. I merely want to conclude on the substantive point that we cannot lower the voting age without recognising that it must have other and very wide consequences in many other areas of law. lt would be very unwise - indeed it would be reckless - to lower the voting age, ignoring these other areas of law which would have to be changed, investigated in detail, and made consistent with our attitude on the law of majority. 
After some preliminary remarks I should like to come back to the concluding comments of the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  with respect to some of the forces at work in Asia and particularly in South East Asia at this time. I substantially agree with him that if one is trying to articulate and determine a sensible policy towards Asia one must identify these forces - in some cases the forces of neutralism that are at work in South East Asia - to understand them fully and to take them into account. But more of that later. 
I was very disappointed to hear the honourable member for St George downgrade the Five Power defence arrangements that apply with respect to Singapore and Malaysia. It was very disappointing to hear him endorse, with approval, statements by an American academic that the Five Power defence arrangements were meaningless and farcical. Both of these statements are quite incorrect. The arrangements are neither meaningless nor farcical. They are a very substantial contribution to the defence of those 2 countries and they are a very substantial contribution to the forces of stability and cautious, sensible progress in this region in which we live. 
I was also disappointed to hear the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  say that Indonesia was not a democracy. I suppose it all depends on the inter pretation or definition that one gives to the word 'democracy'. But what we should not be doing in this national Parliament is pointing the finger at one of our Asian neighbours and saying: 'You are not a democracy. You do not live up to the same high standards of parliamentary democracy that prevail in this country.' What we should be doing, surely, is recognising that there are democratic forces at work in Indonesia, and that they have been catered for by the present Indonesian Government. We should also recognise, acknowledge and approve publicly that, after ail, there has been an election in Indonesia, that that election was conducted with candidates, that there were political parties involved, that there was a fairly hot contest in that election and that it was run along fairly democratic lines. One also should say publicly that we recognise that the Indonesian Government has had the courage, in view of its recent history, to hold the election along generally democratic lines. To the credit of that Government it does not pretend that the election was completely democratic, using the definition of 'democratic' that we would use in Australia. What it has said is that now it has achieved a measure of stability, now that it has come through an election along generally democratic lines, it will continue at each subsequent election along those lines until there is a completely civilianised and democratic government in that country. I should like to think that more honourable members of this Parliament would stand and commend the Indonesian Government for taking that courageous stand. 
I turn now to some other issues and leave this region to discuss another region that perhaps does not get very much attention - the region of Africa. This area is considerably overlooked in Australia, particularly in debates on foreign affairs. It is an area where the great issue of our times is being thrashed out and determined. It is perhaps unfortunate that the Australian Government does not make more public statements on this particularly important area of the world. I made a speech in this House- 
If the honourable member will contain himself for a few minutes he will be able to speak himself. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member for Sturt will cease his constant stream of interjections. 
1 can excuse interjections if they have some relevance to the debate. Some time ago I made a speech in this House on the importance of establishing closer relations with some of the countries of Africa with which we do not presently have relations. Of course we have relations with South Africa, but not with many of the other countries of Africa. As I have said before, the great issue of our times is being determined in Africa. Frankly - I know it is not easy to say this sort of thing - I am not at all happy with the policy of the Government towards South Africa and Rhodesia. I am not at all convinced that it is wise, in Australia's interests, to be identified in the way it is on some occasions, and when broad issues arise, with the forces of the reactionary Government of South Africa. I am not at all satisfied that we take as strong a stand as we should on the issue of Rhodesia. 1 do not want to go into the involved complicated and detailed resolutions of the Security Council relating to Rhodesia, but I do want to draw the attention of the House to the resolution that was passed by the Security Council in 1970; that is, Resolution 277. In paragraphs 2, 3 and 9 (a) of that resolution there are set out the obligations of member states so far as relations with this regime are concerned. Paragraph 2 reads: 
Decides that Member States shall refrain from recognising this illegal regime or from rendering any assistance to it; 
I suggest that the operative words are 'any assistance'. Paragraph 3 states: 
Calls upon Member States to take appropriate measures, at the national level, to ensure that any act performed by officials and institutions of the illegal regime in Southern Rhodesia shall not be accorded any recognition, official or otherwise, including judicial notice, by the competent organs of their State; 
Paragraph 9 reads: 
Decides, in accordance with Article 41 of the Charter and in furthering the objective of ending the rebellion, that Member States shall: 
Immediately sever all diplomatic, consular, trade, military and other relations that they may have with the illegal regime in South ern Rhodesia, and terminate any representation that they may maintain in the Territory; 
I apologise for taking up the time of the House in reading those paragraphs of that resolution, but I think they are particularly important. I do not know, and I would cot presume to know, what detailed investigations the Government made when it was considering the position of the Rhodesian Information Centre in Sydney, but 1 hope that the Government, if it has not already done so, will look very closely at the wording of those paragraphs and consider whether perhaps we are offering some succour or some assistance to the Rhodesian authorities or the regime, as it is at the moment, by allowing that office to remain open. 
I know that there is a case for saying that there should be a complete and untrammelled introduction of material and literature so that people in Australia can weigh both sides of the argument - the Rhodesian argument or any other argument on domestic or international politics. That is a very persuasive argument. But I am also very concerned about this fact: We are a member of the United Nations and we realise that it is important for us to play our role in the world by remaining a member of the United Nations. It is a simple matter: If we are to remain a member of the United Nations we must act in accordance with the resolutions passed by the United Nations, in accordance with the letter and the spirit of its resolutions. Quite frankly, I am not at all convinced that that is what we are doing at the moment. So, I hope that the Government will have another look at this very important matter. I again make the plea that I made on an earlier occasion; that is, that Africa is the continent where one of the great issues of our time is being determined and I venture to say that Australia will be assessed by the world substantially on the stand Australia takes on that issue in that very significant continent. 
I turn now to another region which is closer to home - the region of Asia.I will make a few remarks about it. I do not want to go into the Vietnam debate because, if I did, it would take up the time allotted to me in this debate. But I suggest that there are 3 lessons that we should learn from the Vietnam experience. The first is the importance of local military involvement rather than leaving military involvement completely or almost completely to outside forces. I suggest that this is the type of attitude that is now reflected in the Five-Power Defence Arrangement and it is perhaps a pity that it was not seen and recognised earlier in the case of Vietnam. The second important lesson is that we must encourage governments in South East Asia to introduce more democratic reforms and to introduce them more quickly than has been done in the past. 
The third lesson is this: The unfortunate thing about the Vietnam debate in Australia is that it was conducted in too simplistic terms. Unfortunately, the domino theory was put forward by some people as if it were something like this: Mao Tsetung would pirouette his way through South East Asia and suddenly appear on Bondi Beach. It is not, of course, as simple as that. The lesson we should have learned from this whole unhappy exercise in Vietnam is that what happens in one Asian country, particularly one South East Asian country, inevitably affects what happens in another country and in neighbouring countries. One can see that in the case of Vietnam in the effect what has happened in Vietnam has had on Laos and Cambodia. Who knows, we may yet live to see an unfortunate consequence in other neighbouring countries of South East Asia. So, it is important for us to look at this part of the world as a region and to recognise that forces at work in one country, such as South Vietnam, may and probably will have very definite consequences in neighbouring countries. I hope that those 3 lessons have been learned from the whole history of the Vietnam experience. 
I want finally to turn to another aspect of our attitude towards Asia. Honourable members will recall that I indicated that if we are to articulate a sensible and practical policy towards Asia, particularly South East Asia, we must have regard to and recognise the forces that are at work in that region. I would like to mention 4 of them. Each of these 4 forces or present situations in South East Asia, can, I think, be coloured by a general attitude held by Asian countries, particularly South East Asian countries. The attitude is that they are very concerned to determine their own destiny. I have visited many of those countries and a common theme that comes from all of them is that they want to determine for themselves what happens in their own country; they want to determine for themselves what are the forces at work in the region; and they want to determine for themselves the economic, social and political structure of the region and of their own country. 
I turn to these 4 examples; that is really what they are once one understands the basic proposition of the concern of the people in the region for determining their own future. The first of them is the issue of neutralisation of South East Asia. This proposal has been put forward principally by Malaysia and has been accepted in varying degrees by all of the other member states of the Association of South East Asian Nations - Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand and Singapore. It is true that one of the ingredients of this proposal is a very healthy dose of idealism. Nevertheless, it must be recognised that the Malaysian Government has accepted this principle of Neutralisation, that it intends to pursue it and that other countries in South East Asia support the principle. It will be pursued, and it would be wise for us to take into account that policy of the Malaysian Government. 
The second is the proposal for a peace zone in the Indian Ocean. This has been put forward principally by Ceylon. It was pursued by that country at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Conference in Singapore last year; it was pursued at the recent session of the United Nations General Assembly; and it was pursued and, indeed, adopted at the 1970 Lusaka conference of non-aligned nations. Again, this is perhaps a long way from achievement, but it should be recognised that many countries in the region recognise that the Indian Ocean can become a competing playground for big power involvement and that countries in the region are not happy about it. That again is a factor that should be taken into account. The Ceylonese Government said in its official statement on this matter: 
It also means that the Great Powers will likewise voluntarily limit their involvement in collective security arrangements and will not seek or use any facilities for militarising the Indian Ocean. 
The third of these aspects is the very existence of the Association of South East Asian Nations, or ASEAN. This Association consists of Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines and Thailand. It has developed beyond what it started out as - a regional economic and cultural union - into a body that is becoming increasingly concerned with foreign affairs and security issues. It is important to consider the proposals that come forward from that body. It is important to consider that it is a responsible and respected body in the region. We should take account of it and of its policy attitudes. 
Finally, there is the proposal for a declaration by Malaysia and Indonesia that the Straits of Malacca are territorial waters. This again, I suggest, is an indication by just 2 of the countries - it is a small example, but it is an indication - of their attitude of determining for themselves the sequence of events in this region. Unfortunately I cannot elaborate on these matters any further. I merely emphasise, as I did earlier, the point that there are forces at work within the countries of Asia, particularly South East Asia, which we must recognise if we are to articulate a sensible and practical policy towards that region. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for External Territories, relates to the Gazelle Local Government Council which in the past has been a focal point for dissension on the Gazelle Peninsula. Can the Minister confirm reports that that Council has been disbanded? If that is so, why has it come about? What, if anything, does the Government intend to do about it? 
I direct a question without notice to the Prime Minister. I ask whether he is aware of the large number of citizens throughout the Commonwealth who are concerned about the nature and extent of poverty within Australia? Is it not so that something in the nature of a national inquiry into poverty in Australia would help the nation and governments to ascertain  ibo  extent and nature of poverty in this country? If so, will the Prime Minister reconsider the Government's decision with respect to holding such an inquiry with a view to ensuring that a national inquiry into poverty is conducted? 

 Mr McMahon  Yesterday I received a letter from the honourable gentleman advising me that he intended to ask in the House a question relating to this problem. I can assure him that- 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and Science. Is he aware of the visit to Canberra today of a comparatively large number of parents and citizens from Victoria to express their interest in and concern about the standard and quality of education in Victorian government schools in particular? Also, has the Minister received a deputation from amongst those parents and citizens? If so, during the course of his meeting with this deputation was he able to throw any light on what the Commonwealth in fact has achieved and has been doing in the field of education? In particular, in view of the fact that such citizens look primarily to the Commonwealth Government to remedy some of the defects in education, was the Minister able to hold out any hope of further Commonwealth assistance in this field? 
 This Bill must be passed and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in the course of bis remarks conceded that. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  towards the end of his speech gave additional and more substantive reasons why it should be passed. That much should be beyond any doubt at all at this stage. As a result of the decision of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court a very serious state of affairs has arisen with respect to the operation of ordinances, regulations and other instruments in this Territory. All I want to do is to attempt to put the matter into perspective, in view, if 1 might say so, of some of the inflammatory remarks of the Leader of the Opposition on 2 occasions when he has spoken on this subject today. I want to put the matter into perspective just to see exactly what we will be dealing with when this Bill is passed to rectify this unfortunate situation which has arisen. 
One way - and I do not pretend that it is necessarily of any vast substance - of putting this matter into perspective is to look at the number of arguments raised by the plaintiffs in the action in the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court, other than the technical and formal arguments on which the case was eventually resolved. If honourable members read the judgment, as I hope they will, they will see that a number of arguments was raised by the plaintiffs. They will notice that first of all it was argued as a very basic proposition that section 12(1.) of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act was, to quote the words of  Mr Justice  Fox, 'so wide and general in its terms that it offends against a principle that it is for Parliament, and not the Executive, to legislate for the people of the Commonwealth'. That is a very basic and substantial argument which was raised by the plaintiffs but it was rejected by the court. 
Then as a further submission it was argued that there was a provision of the Constitution that had been contravened, that section 52 (J .) of the Constitution contained a provision that the Parliament had exclusive power to make laws with respect to the Seat of Government and that that provision of the Constitution had not been complied with. That also was a very basic and substantive argument but it was also rejected. The third argument that was put on behalf of the plaintiffs was that because of the operation of section 12 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act the ordinance was not in operation at all at the time. That again was a substantive argument, not a technical or formal argument, but it was rejected by the court. lt was further submitted that the ordinance did not apply to the land in question. One could not think of an argument of more substance than that in this case but it likewise was rejected. So too were rejected the other submissions that were raised by the plaintiffs, one submission being that the ordinance was invalid because it was unreasonable. After that was investigated the court likewise came to the same conclusion. 
A further submission put on behalf of the defendants in the action was that the ordinance was not notified in the prescribed manner, that is, as prescribed under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act and therefore was not operative at the relevant time. It is here that we come to the gravamen of the issue that has been debated today. It is this argument that  Mr Justice  Fox rejected because in his view the notice that was originally contained in the Government Gazette stated with reasonable clarity that the ordinance had been made. So the issue was whether notification had been given that the ordinance in question had been made. The other 2 judges, of course, accepted the submission that was put on that particular argument. They decided that there was no proper notification as was required by the Seat of Government (Administration) Act. 
It is on this matter, of course, that my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  addressed some remarks. I want to refer to them because I think, with all respect to the honourable member, that he did not put enough emphasis on what, in fact, was contained in that original notification. It is true that the notification referred to what was described as the 'AGPS' which was described as being in Canberra, Melbourne, Perth and Sydney. But I do not think that honourable members should overlook the fact that the notification did also state that the ordinance could be obtained by post, as was indicated by the honourable member for Moreton, but, more particularly, by post from the Assistant Director, Sales and Distribution of the Australian Government Publishing Service. I would have thought that when one has that expression set out in full in the notice, it really detracts somewhat from the argument that was put by the honourable member for Moreton, namely, that when the initials of the organisation where the document can be purchased are given that is just a hollow and synthetic reference - a casual reference - to the place where the ordinance can be purchased. I just put that, as I said originally, to try to put some perspective on the matter; not to argue against the conclusion that was reached by the majority of judges in the case, but merely to put it into perspective. 
The decision has been given and the court has held that this was not sufficient and adequate notice of the making of the ordinance or of the place where the copies could be obtained. It is important that it should be put into perspective. I say that both with respect to the notification and the indication that was given as to where a copy of the ordinance could be obtained. Let us remember again other things that were contained in the original unacceptable notification because the heading did state, after all - I quote from it: 
Notification of the making of ordinances. 
It did, after all, give the number of the ordinance; it did, after all, give the title of the ordinance and it did, after all, give the price of the ordinance. I would have thought that anyone just looking at it, from my own point of view, would, in fact, find his way to the Commonwealth Government Gazette. Anyone who, in fact, understood what the purpose of the general notice was in the Gazette could not have come to any conclusion, having read it, other than that this particular ordinance had been made, that it had this number, that it was priced at 10c and that it was available in the places which were referred to in the notice. But, as I say, I am not attempting to put it any higher than that because the court has held that this was not a notification which complied with the provisions of the Act and, of course, it was of no effect. But it is important to bear it in mind and to put it into perspective when one considers some of the things that have been said in the course of this debate so far. 
Finally, and this is the only other thing that I want to say, I think it has been overlooked and deserves to be mentioned, and deserves to be emphasised, that this is a matter of formality and a matter of some technicality. It is true, beyond any doubt, that the operation of that technical objection was that the ordinance was not effective and was not in operation at the relevant time. But let us remember that it was a technical act to bring it into operation. Let us remember that, above all, when we hear comments such as some of those made by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  about bringing laws into operation in the middle of the night in some sort of secret way. This is a technical matter that had to be complied with and it was not complied with on the original occasion. It should be remembered, above all, that this is as far as it goes. It certainly does not go - the court did not go as far as to say that anything went - -to the actual validity of the ordinance itself. So, I think it should be borne in mind, as 1 have said, that these are matters which should be put into perspective. It is as well to bear this in mind in view of the comments, some of which in my view were unfortunate, that have been made in the course of this debate. 
It is not often that we hear the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  in a quiet, reflective, expansive mood. I must say it is a very pleasant change. I think that on this occasion we should express our appreciation to the honourable member for drawing our attention to the favourable situation that exists in South Australia, at least at the moment, so far as these facilities are concerned and thank him for what I understand to be the implied if not the almost expressed recognition of the. work of  Mr Ian  Wilson and his distinguished father in this field. I think the honourable member is to be commended for his generosity in that regard. In the course of this lively debate I think there has already been enough detail given as to the operation of the scheme envisaged by the 2 pieces of legislation which are before the House at the moment. I will not go over them again. Suffice it to say, very briefly and really just for the purposes of history when this speech of mine comes to be considered, that the Aged Persons Homes Bill increases from $5 to $10 a week the subsidy paid to non-profit homes caring for people over 80 years of age to provide personal attention for these people. 
The Aged Persons Hostels Bill provides for very substantial appropriations by the Commonwealth Government for the provision of hostel accommodation. I mention briefly - nevertheless I think it is significant - that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  expressed a hope in the course of his second reading speech that the legislation with respect to the subsidy increase from $5 to $10 would have the effect of enabling aged persons homes organisations to balance their books in view of the very precarious situation in which a lot of them have been. There is only one such organisation with Which I have had association myself. I do not profess, as has probably become apparent already, to be an expert in this field. However, there is one such organisation and one such home that I have had something to do with, namely, the Judge Book Memorial Village in Eltham which is run by the Community Welfare Foundation of Melbourne. I have spoken to officials of that organisation and I must say that they are very pleased indeed at the legislation with which the Government is now proceeding. They have indicated that this measure to increase the subsidies will quite clearly bring about a very substantial improvement in the situation at the Judge Book Village. This, of course, has been assessed already, at least in general terms and the officials can see the very real contribution that the Government has made to the effective continuing operation of the organisation of the Judge Book Village and they are, of course, most appreciative. It would seem quite clearly that the Minister's hope will be justified. He deserves every congratulation that has been given to him by previous speakers for his work on this important step forward. 
Finally, because I think it is important that we should put these things into perspective, I turn once again, but briefly, to the honourable member for Sturt and some of his comments in reply to my colleague, the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer).  Honourable members will recall that the honourable member for Bennelong drew attention to. the fact that the vast series of measures for the benefit of aged persons in this field were new. The point he was making was that it was a new programme in a new field and that new benefits had been conferred in recent years under these schemes. The honourable member for Sturt took issue with him on this. All I say is that the facts stand for themselves. If the honourable member for Sturt and other honourable members will look at the record in this field they will see quite clearly - I can see your own approval of this proposition,  Mr Deputy Speaker  - that these are new schemes with new benefits that have been introduced by this Government. 
One can take this further, I refer briefly to this aspect because I do not want to get too far from the subject  of  the debate, but it is important to regard these measures that we are considering within the whole context of social services. Quite clearly in Australia comparatively few social service measures have been introduced by Labor governments in the history of this country. Indeed, one could say that the most desirable social service measures always have been introduced by non-Labor governments. If we look through these measures and at the various types  of  facilities that we are discussing, such as the Meals on Wheels programme, assistance to handicapped children, sheltered workshops and the home care programme, we see,  of  course, that they were all introduced by this present Government or its immediate predecessors. I think this should be borne in mind in view of the comments that come from members of the Opposition suggesting that the Government is not concerned with social welfare. This is absolute nonsense. As I have said, it can be easily demonstrated that the most worthwhile measures have been introduced by this Government and its predecessors. 

 Mr FOSTER (Sturt)- I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
 The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has made, with respect, a thoughtful speech in which he has approved of the scheme which is before the House. He has suggested a number of reforms and improvements which he has asked the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  to examine. As I say, the honourable member made a thoughtful speech on this matter. It puts him on one side of the extraordinary division of opinion exhibited by Opposition speakers in this debate today. As I understand it, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith is on the side of those who say that, although this scheme is good in that it gives considerable benefits to people, it is not perfect. He has suggested, as have a number of his colleagues, that it could be improved. However, there are other honourable members on the Opposition side who have scoffed at the scheme, derided it and used phrases such as 'a magic trick', 'an election gimmick' and 'a thimble and pea act' to describe the operation of the homes savings grant scheme. This, as I see it, is quite an extraordinary division of opinion between some members of the Opposition in the attitude they take towards this scheme. 1 think the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  in particular deserves singling out in this regard because he and some of his colleagues have sought to fail back on the socialist panacea to solve the problems that they see in the areas of home ownership and the price of land and houses in Australia. They have fallen back on this socialist panacea and said: 'Let the Government compulsorily acquire land and engage in some socialist scheme under which that land will be redistributed'. As they see it, it is a panacea to the whole situation. As one listened to the honourable member for Reid one could not help but remember some other words of his. They were not spoken words but words he has put down in a scholarly book which has only just hit - when I say 'hit' I mean it literally - the bookshops. The book is entitled 'Towards a New Australia', and in it the honourable member for Reid said: 
We  socialists have  always been dreamers. 
They were the words the honourable member used and one could not help but reflect on that expression of opinion as one listened to what he had to say today. 
 No, one could not possibly argue with the proposition that they have been dreamers when they can pluck out of the air an absurd proposition such as the one which has been put forward, namely, the compulsory acquisition of property by government and then the redistribution of it through this socialist scheme which it is thought will solve some of the problems of home ownership that we have in this country today. 
Before I continue with my general remarks I would like to set the record straight in relation to a matter that the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  raised in one of his less deranged speeches. Honourable members will recall that he took to task the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  for the views he expressed in the debate in 1970. I think the honourable member for Sturt doubted the bona fides of the honourable member for Cook nd said that he had changed his opinion between 1970 and the present time. He said that the honourable member for Cook had opposed the Opposition's amendment in 1970 which sought to remove the restrictions on credit unions so far as the homes savings grant scheme is concerned. With respect, the honourable member for Sturt was utterly and completely wrong in what be said about that amendment moved in 1970, and he was unjustified in criticising the honourable member for Cook because the amendment moved by the Opposition in 1970 in relation to credit unions was in the following terms:  that the clauses of the Bill relating to credit unions should be redrafted to give credit union savings complete and unconditional recognition under the Act; 
The honourable member for Sturt had the impertinence to say that this is what the Government is proposing now. For the honourable member to say that the amendment moved by the Opposition in 1970 and rejected by the Government at that time is now acceptable to the Government is absolutely ridiculous and absurd. If honourable members will look at the Minister's second reading speech they will see that there are still reasonable and necessary restrictions so far as credit unions are concerned. One restriction, if I can use that word, is that a credit union must show that not less than 20 per cent of the total amount lent to its members in the most recently completed financial year has been in the form of housing loans, and it must undertake to maintain that 20 per cent proportion in each subsequent financial year. If it complies with those requirements it will be approved for the purposes of the Homes Savings Grant Act. On the one hand, the Opposition put up an amendment that there should be complete and unconditional recognition of credit unions and, on the other hand, the Government has now proposed - it will become law - that 20 per cent of money lent by credit unions must be for housing loans. The credit unions themselves have never suggested that they should be completely and unconditionally recognised, as I understand it, and I wonder why they have never suggested it. They have never suggested it because they realise what an absurd proposition it would be. 
Leaving the honourable member for Sturt lo one side, I now turn to some of the more substantive points that I would like to make in relation to this matter. It is not my intention to go over the details of the legislation because these have been gone over already on numerous occasions. 
However, I want to say something about some of the principles exhibited by this legislation and exhibited in the debate that has taken place today. 
I want to say something about the scheme itself. It was introduced in 1964 as an incentive to young couples to save for their own homes and was a reward for doing so. It is interesting to reflect on the extent of the operation of the scheme since 1964. During that period over $108m has been made available by the Commonwealth Government to successful applicants for homes savings grants. There have been 248,000 grants made in those enormous dimensions under the homes savings grants scheme. When one reflects on these figures, how absurd were the comments of some members of the Opposition when they said that the scheme was merely an expediency and that the Government was throwing money away as a bribe to induce people to vote for the Government when they would not otherwise have done so. How absurd to suggest, when one looks at statistics of those dimensions, that people would fall for such a trick if it were a trick. The figures show something of the extent of the operation of the scheme. 
I have been pleased to notice - I read the speeches of the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  attentively and closely whenever they are issued - from some of his more recent speeches that the Government remains firmly committed to the achievement of the highest possible level of home ownership in Australia. Who, in his right mind, can deny that this scheme we are debating today is a very substantial and real contribution to achieving the highest possible level of home ownership? I believe that in the 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Government since 1949 that record has been continually sustained. When one considers the activities of the Commonwealth Government in regard to war service homes and the provision of low interest finance to the State housing authorities for welfare housing construction it becomes obvious that the Government has played a very important and necessary role in the housing industry of Australia. But it should be said here that the growth of the housing industry has been achieved only by co-operation between private enterprise and governments. This bears great relevance to what 1 will have to say later about the housing policies of the Labor Party. This co-operation between private lending institutions and governments is not only  a  significant fact but I would suggest that  also  this is the only way in which it  can  be achieved. 
This legislation is concerned with methods of housing finance. It is appropriate that one should say something about that. I am very proud to be supporting a government that has free enterprise as its very basis and which puts that free enterprise into practice by seeking this cooperation between public and private authorities. The fact that building societies, banks and other private enterprise institutions are lending record amounts for housing is an indication of what can be achieved by cooperation between government and free enterprise in regard to housing. In the last financial year these private institutions lent a record of SI, 677m for housing. This represented some 168,000 separate loans. In the previous financial year, 1970-71, these institutions approved 140,000 loans  to  a total value of $ 1,250m. The increase in the number of loans and the amount made available in such a short space of one year surely is an indication of the useful and valuable role that these institutions are playing in the growth of the housing industry. Yet the Labor Party proposes as a matter of policy to reduce private housing activity in Australia by  a  socialist style of approach to the problems of housing. 
Let there be no doubt that a Labor government would cause stagnation in private enterprise housing activity. One has only to read the various speeches of the  Honourable  member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  if one feels up to it, to appreciate his approach to the housing question. One very clear example of this was revealed at the Launceston Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party in June last year. At that conference, on the recommendation of the committee chaired by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and including the honourable member for Reid and  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, it was resolved that a Federal Labor government would establish a homes finance division of the Commonwealth Bank to pro vide finance at 3J per cent up to a limit of Si 5,000 for housing purposes. If this division of the Commonwealth Bank were to lend at 31 per cent, where would that leave the free enterprise banks, the building societies and the credit unions who have made and are continuing to make such a substantial contribution to the availability of housing finance and such a substantial contribution to encouraging and enabling people to acquire their own homes? Almost overnight those institutions would be knocked out of the field of housing finance and that would be despite the very valuable contribution that they have made. 
Finally, I draw attention to a few comments that have been made by some members of the Opposition at various times in respect of the operation of this scheme. Honourable members will recall the very compelling and powerful speech made by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  this afternoon - a very substantial contribution it was. He said that the Opposition would seek to abolish the homes savings grant scheme. One can understand the honourable member for Bennelong expressing that view because, as I said before, some members of the Opposition in quite a strong way have expressed almost that view today. They have spoken so strongly about the scheme, so strongly against it - they have used such language about the scheme by describing it as a magic trick and an election gimmick - that one could be excused for coming to the conclusion that the Opposition had in fact decided to abolish the scheme. But, of course, this shows the incredible state of confusion that the Opposition is in over the matter, lt is set out in the printed policy or platform of the Opposition that one of the policy objectives is, to continue the homes savings grant scheme. It refers to anomalies that it says should be rectified, but nevertheless there it is. Not only is that in the platform but also there is the other provision that the Party would establish a home finance division of the Commonwealth Bank incorporating architectural, inspection and insurance services and providing finance at 31 per cent to a limit of $15,000. 
The Opposition has the impertinence to accuse us of political expediency aud using magic tricks and yet it has both of these provisions in its platform: First, that the homes savings grant scheme will continue and, secondly, that there will be this enormous amount of money available at 3) per cent interest. How can there be such an inconsistency in policy attitudes and objectives which the Opposition wants to achieve? How can it at the same time say that both of these will be its policy objectives? As I say, this is an extraordinary inconsistency in the attitude of the Opposition and it deserves to be emphasised. 
One can go on to look in detail at specific attempts that the honourable member for Reid and some of his colleagues have made to dredge up, from the bottom of nowhere, a housing policy. As they have plucked these things out put them forward the Minister for Housing has drawn attention to the enormous inconsistencies between them and has drawn attention to their impracticality. As soon as he has done that they have been abandoned and we have heard no more of them. For instance, we have heard no more of the proposal made some time ago that the Opposition, if it became the government, would reduce the cost of constructing a home by between $4,000 and $6,000. This was challenged by the Minister for Housing and all we have heard about it since have been profound bursts of silence. One could go on in detail but I do not want to take up the time of the House unduly on these matters. I merely make the general proposition, which can be borne out if one looks at the facts in detail, that the Opposition has no concerted, responsible and substantial housing policy to put up to match the very real achievements that the Government has made in this area which we are discussing today. 
The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  in the course of his very interesting remarks referred to a principle, of law, namely, that there should not be one law for the rich and another for the poor. I entirely agree with that principle. I recall making substantial losses when undertaking, with considerable willingness and enthusiasm, quite a number of legal aid briefs, quite often in the divorce and matrimonial causes jurisdictions. This is still done at least in the State sphere and I think that, although one can draw attention to exorbitant legal expenses on occasions, one should also on those same occasions draw attention to those barristers and solicitors who do an enormous amount of legal work in all the capital cities in Australia for very small fees or in many cases no fees at all. I think one should always bear that in mind. 
A large number of barristers and solicitors. I want to make some remarks about that same principle to which the honourable member for Hunter drew attention, namely, that there should not be one law for the rich and one for the poor. To put it in different words, the law should apply to all without favour to one section of the community or another and without exempting one section of the community or another from its operation. This is the basic principle of law. Indeed it would be hard to find a more basic principle of any judicial system than that the law should apply to all. This Government supports that principle and in the administration of the Attorney-General's Department and the structure of courts and generally the structure of law within this Commonwealth this is a principle which is adhered to and put into practise. 
No. I did not think that it would be questioned until I had occasion to read the Labor Party platform containing the proposals which Labor would put into practice if it formed a government. I think it is wise when we are considering this principle to look at what the alternative is, and the alternative is contained in chapter XIV of the Australian Labor Party's platform. It reads: 
It is proposed that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and Regulations be amended to provide for - 
the immunity of unions from action for tort in respect of torts alleged to have been committed by or on behalf of a trade union in contemplation of furtherance of a trade dispute. 
I think it is well that we should draw attention - and I see from the reaction of some members of the Opposition that they may have been surprised that such an extraordinary provision should be contained in their own platform - to that proposal. At present, the law of torts - that is, civil wrongs - applies throughout the length and breadth of the land. It applies to all people. People who are injured may go to the courts and seek some redress. Now, one exception - and it is a notable exception - is proposed to the law by the Labor Party, and that is in the case of trade unions. It is said that trade unions should not be subject to the law and that if a tort is committed by trade union members then the people responsible for it should not have to indemnify those whom they have harmed in the course of breaking the law of torts. 
The honourable member for Boothby asks what type of laws are involved, and this is very appropriate. For instance there is the law relating to assault and battery. This is covered by the law of torts with respect to damaging private property. To take the honourable member's interjection a little further and to give an example, I ask the honourable member and other honourable members to imagine a building site where work is in progress and some trade union officials decide to visit that site - I use the word 'visit* in the euphemistic sense - to see what is in progress on the building site. In the course of their visit they attack and beat up any other people who happen to be on the site; they destroy property which belongs to private citizens and of course trespass may be committed and property may be damaged. 
This gives rise to all sorts of legal consequences, only some of which would be the rights of those who have been injured both in their persons and in their property to seek redress under the normal law of torts applying throughout the country. But of course if the proposal of the Labor Party were implemented - if it became legislation and part of the law of the land - the torts law would not apply. In other words there would be an exemption in only one case and that is the case of trade unions. What I suggest to the Committee is that this is a very flagrant proposed departure from a very basic principle of law and the administration of justice. 
The second of these 2 principles to which I wish to refer is another basic principle, and that is that those people occupying judicial and semi-judicial positions should hold those positions free from the threat or the fear of a threat by the government for the time being that they might beremoved or not reappointed. In other words, that a judge who is occupying a position in any court should be free to act impartially, should be free from the threat or fear that he might be removed by a government or not reappointed if his appointment were for a short time. It is for that reason that when appointments are made, for instance to the High Court, those appointments are forlife; or, when appointments are made to the Supreme Court of Victoria, the judge is appointed until the gentleman reaches a certain age whichI think is 72 years. What is proposed by the Opposition as an alternative to this is contained again in chapter XIV, section 2 (b), of the platform. I will read the exact words. Referring to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, it reads:  lt is proposed that the Act be amended to provide for - 
fixed term appointments for members of the Commission and conciliators; 
In other words, it is proposed by the Labor Party that the people who occupy the Arbitration Commission bench and the conciliators should be appointed for a fixed term and that then their appointment should be subject to approval, one way or the other, by the government in office for the time being. 
I will table the document, certainly. 
It contains your platform. 
The Opposition members who are interjecting are so shocked to hear such an outrageous suggestion as this one that they now doubt that I am reading from their platform. 
I am reading from a document headed 'Platform of the Australian Labor Party'. It was printed and published in June of this year, after the Launceston conference. 
In Melbourne. There is in this publication a photograph of a gentleman whom I believe is the leader of honourable members opposite or, at least, one of their leaders. Lest it be thought that I am putting an ungracious interpretation on this clause of the Labor Party's platform let me read what was said on the occasion it was introduced into its platform by the gentleman who was responsible, namely the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who is the shadow Minister for Labour and National Service, that is if a Labor government would have that portfolio, but certainly the shadow Minister for Labour. I will quote from the Melbourne Age' of 24th June 1971, the time of the Launceston Conference, when this was inserted. He said:  lt is time members of the Commission were told that if they act in ways contrary to the best interests of the working people they may not be reappointed. 
In other words, they will not be impartial; they will have to do what they are told and if they do not do what a Labor government tells them to do they may not be reappointed. That is a substantial departure from the very basic principle of the administration of justice. 
Sitting suspended from 6.14 to 8 p.m. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Customs and Excise and relates to reports to the seizure of some $100,000 worth of hashish in Melbourne yesterday. I ask the Minister whether he is disturbed about what appeared in those reports concerning international connections in this matter. Can the Minister confirm that there is no evidence of international drug running into Australia? On the other hand, if there is evidence of an international syndicate operating, can he assure the House that this matter is under control and advise honourable members of what steps are being taken to eradicate this problem? 
With all respect to the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  I think we have heard a most extraordinary speech from him, because the proposition which he put forward as the basis for his speech was clearly erroneous and the evidence which he put forward in support of it was virtually non-existent. The honourable member's contention was that Australia deliberately kept away from Asia; that we kept the people of Australia away from contact with Asia and an appreciation of Asia. He, of course, put the blame on the Government for this state of affairs. He said that we like to keep apart from Asia.  I  just do not know what appreciation the honourable member for Maribyrnong has of the very positive steps taken in recent years by the Government to bring Australia as a nation closer to Asia and to bring the Australian people closer to Asia. So the basic proposition that the honourable member makes is clearly wrong. 
As I was just sitting here in the last few minutes listening to the honourable member's speech  1  merely jotted down  7  points indicating the continuing closeness between Australia and Asian countries. First of all there is the increasing involvement of the Department of Foreign Affairs in Asian countries and the increased number of diplomatic missions that we have. Frequent visits are made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  to Asian countries, forging bonds between ourselves and those countries. Secondly, there are the very considerable Government proposals and support for the teaching of Asian languages and culture in Australian schools. Thirdly, there is the enormous foreign aid budget.  I  do not know whether the honourable member for Maribyrnong understands the extent and nature of our foreign aid budget, but in terms of the percentage of gross national product we are fourth in the world. In terms of general expenditure on foreign aid and in terms of aid following specific catastrophes that occur from time to time Australia cannot be described in any other way than as a generous foreign aid donor both in the extent of aid we give and in the absence of strings which are attached to the aid which we give. I really cannot understand how the honourable member for Maribyrnong could make the comments he made about our foreign aid programme. 
Fourthly, there is a very healthy trend amongst private organisations to establish links between Australia and Asian countries. I mention for one the Law Asia 
Association. Fifthly, there are, of course, an increasing number of associations of Asian and South East Asian countries of which Australia has become a member. I think in particular of ASPAC and the part that Australia has played in this organisation, particularly with the establishment of the registry of experts. Sixthly, I think immediately of our wider involvement in Asia in terms of a contribution in almost every area of Government activity that one cares to name. There must be very few Australian Government departments that do not now participate in some way in assisting Asian countries and the people of those countries. I believe we can do more, particularly in the field of foreign aid, but with respect to the honourable member for Maribyrnong I think it is very unfair to make the deprecatory remarks that he made about the Government's attitude and involvement in its relationship with and closeness towards the countries of our region. So I reject the basic proposition made by the honourable member for Maribyrnong and I draw attention to the complete lack of any evidence to support the extraordinary proposition that he made. 
The main comments that I want to make are with respect to the speech made by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison),  which probably exceeded that made by his colleague, the honourable member for Maribyrnong, in its extreme nature, lack of authority and peculiarities of origin. The honourable member for St George seemed to be taking to task the Prime Minister for some statements that he made on a television programme last night. What is extraordinary is that the honourable member drew attention to some comments made by the Prime Minister with respect to some future possible, hypothetical military involvement by Australia in Asia. He completely overlooked the fact that Tun Razak's proposals for the neutralisation of South East Asia have now and always have had at the very basis of those proposals the guarantee of neutralisation by the powers in the region. He has emphasised on every occasion that I know when he has spoken about this subject that the great powers must guarantee the neutralisation of South East Asia, otherwise that neutralisation will be purely illusory and of no value whatsoever. The Prime Minister merely looked forward to a time when, of course at the wish and with the consent of some Asian countries, we may have a limited military involvement still in that region. 
What is equally extraordinary is that the honourable member for St George gave no credit at all to the Prime Minister and paid no regard at all to the fact that the Prime Minister and the Government on this and previous occasions have spoken in favourable terms of the proposal for neutralisation. The Prime Minister and other Ministers have said that neutralisation is a desirable thing. Peace is a good thing. We look forward to peace. We look forward to neutralisation. But it is illusory merely to pretend that you can say: 'From tomorrow we will have neutralisation. Everything will be fine after that. No guarantees will be necessary. We can rely on the good faith of some countries in Asia which have not shown much good faith in the past, and everything will be perfect.' This is mere idealism. As Tun Razak himself has said on numerous occasions, you cannot have neutralisation of South East Asia without guarantees by the great powers. 
It is about time that the honourable member for St George and some of his colleagues drew attention to the fact that this Government has supported this proposal and has supported proposals that have come from Asian leaders, who of course are concerned themselves about the military activity which has been so prominent in their region. I think attention should be drawn to that aspect rather than to seeking to criticise the Prime Minister for merely pointing out the possible future military role that Australia might play as one of the sub-guarantors of such a neutralisation arrangement. What is more pernicious is that this is not just an instant observation by the honourable member. It is part of a whole range of attitudes adopted by him and his colleagues in the Opposition who would seek to divorce Australia from the region in which it is situated. They seek to take away any substance that might be given to the Five Power defence arrangement by wanting to withdraw our limited military involvement in the region. 
They would seek to bring our involvement with the South East Asia Collective Defence Treaty to an end and to convert the ANZUS Treaty to what they are pleased to call an instrument for peace and justice. They will not face up to the fact that it is a military treaty. They will not accept it on those terms. They seek to convert it into what they call an instrument for peace and justice. They might bear in mind that their own youth association, the Young Labor Association, has condemned the Federal Conference of the Labor Party for what it termed putting blind faith in the ANZUS Treaty as an instrument for peace and justice. The Young Labor Association urged that Australia should align itself with the national liberation fronts operating in Asia. That is the real attitude adopted by the Opposition and those who support the Opposition. They would end our defence arranagements on which we and our allies rely. We are parties to these agreements and we should live up to the obligation that that involves. They make a very substantial contribution to Australia's role in Asia and a substantial contribution to improving stability in the region in which we live. 
Progress reported. 
I would like to address a few impromptu remarks to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  I use the word 'impromptu' because we have had not more than an hour or so to examine this latest Labor Party bousing proposal. I think the first point that should be made about this amendment is that it is yet another instalment in the seemingly never ending saga of Labor Party housing proposals. Scarcely a month goes by these days without some new amendment to a policy or, indeed, some completely new policy being put forward by the Labor Party to the Australian people for their acceptance. I think that is the first point that should be made clear. Who could possibly accept that the Labor Party has any coherent, considered housing policy when there has been such a consistent flow of conflicting and changing policies. 
Let me make a few points about the proposals contained in this amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid. It is well that we remember the basic points contained in this amendment. First of all, there is the proposition that land should be acquired by what are referred to as public land development commissions and that their function should be to acquire land. Let us not forget that this is the basic proposal put forward in this amendment. As my colleague the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  has explained quite clearly, this is a purely socialist proposal. 
The honourable member for Burke chimes in with his ready acceptance of my proposition that it is a socialist proposal. If the Labor Party wants to put it forward and argue in support of it, let it do so. But let us not avoid the obvious fact that it is a socialist proposal. The proposal is that a Government authority should be established and that it should acquire all necessary land. Presumably the necessary land referred to is all of that land which will be needed in Australia henceforth for young married couples to occupy and upon which to build their homes. I presume that is the necessary land to which the amendment refers, and that is virtually all the land that will be needed in the community henceforth. So let us get that point straight first of all. 
The second proposal is that this land will be held on a leasehold basis. It is important that we remember that this is a proposal to take Australia away from the basic principle that has served Australia so well at least over the last 23 years, and that is that Australian citizens should have the opportunity to acquire - that is, to own - their own land and to build their own homes upon that land. The proposal now before us is that that system should come to an end and that henceforth land should be held in leasehold tenure by the Government. Let me take this a little further. If there is a proposal for leasehold tenure, as the Labor Party has put forward, let us remember that with every lease there must be a landlord, that with every tenant there must be a corresponding owner of the land who will enter into some sort of contractual relationship with the tenant, who will be the Australian citizen. There can be no doubt whatsoever that what is proposed is that the Government should be the owner, that the Government should be the landlord, and that the Government should stand in that relationship as landlord to the ordinary Australian citizen who occupies the house built upon that land. Let us not forget that this proposal also advocates that henceforward the Commonwealth Government will determine, down to the most minute detail, all of the terms and conditions in the relationship that will exist between the owner of the land - the Government - and the people who occupy the land. So let us get that point fixed clearly in our minds before we vote upon this proposal. 
A suggestion is also contained in this amendment that what is sought to be obtained is the reduction of interest rates. 1 suppose this part of the proposal harks back to either the fifth or sixth last Labor Party housing proposal. I presume that the honourable member for Reid is referring to the proposal to reduce interest rates by 2 per cent, which was put forward a few months ago, and not the 3 per cent proposal which was advocated today. I presume he is not referring to the proposal to reduce the cost of a piece of land and a house by several thousand dollars, which was put forward a few months ago but which I gather has now been abandoned. I must apologise for my confusion on these matters,  Mr Chairman.  Perhaps you are confused and the Committee is confused also. But it is getting very difficult to be clear about these things when we have this succession of conflicting proposals. 
But assuming that what has been referred to is the proposal contained in the Labor Party platform and which was accepted at the Federal Conference, namely, the proposal that a subsidy should be given to institutional lenders to reduce interest rates by 2 per cent, let us have a look at some of the defects of that proposal, because they are numerous. I mention just 2 of them. The first of them is that this proposal will act quite contrary to the efforts of those young Australian citizens who seek to pay off their own home - who seek to discharge a mortgage within 10 years. Many young couples seek to do that. All of them would like to do that. But this 2 per cent interest reduction proposal which is contained in the Labor Party platform in fact would impose a penalty on those people who seek to pay off their mortgage within 10 years; it provides a subsidy for those who do not. In other words, it provides a penalty for those who do pay off their mortgage, and that is an absurd and inconsistent proposal and one which will penalise young people in Australia. 
The second defect I wish to mention - there are many that one could mention - is that the provisions contained in the proposal will apply only when the housing loan is made by an institutional lender and the terms of the proposal will not apply when the housing loan is made available by a lender other than an institutional lender. It has been said, and there is a great deal of evidence to support it, that about 30 per cent of the home acquirers in Australia obtain finance to acquire their homes through channels other than those provided by institutional lenders; in other words, they obtain money from the trust accounts of solicitors and accountants or from other private sources. It is important, as I have said, to recall when considering this proposal that no subsidy will be available for the 30 per cent of people who acquire their homes by that means. I repeat that there will be a subsidy for those who acquire homes by borrowing money through institutional sources but a penalty will be imposed on those who do not. 
One could go on, as the honourable member for Bennelong did, and draw attention to the attempt to impose a centralised method of home acquisition and a centralised method of determining building codes, standards and practices across the whole length and breadth of Australia, quite irrespective of the different conditions and circumstances that may prevail, but I do not want to pursue that matter because the honourable member for Bennelong has exposed it for what it is. What I do want to do is to conclude by making a few remarks about a matter of importance that was not referred to by the honourable member for Reid, that is, the home savings grant. The attitude of the 
Labor Party to the home savings grant - particularly that of the honourable member for Reid, who is now about to leave the chamber for about the 17th time since I started to speak - has now been made plain. The Labor Party has described it as a bribe, a fraud and a sham. As has been pointed out, there are 2 parties to a bribe, namely, the party which offers the bribe and the party which accepts it. In my view the party which is the most culpable and reprehensible is the party which accepts the bribe. 
Who are the people who have accepted the bribe of the home savings grant? They are the 249,000 married couples which have applied for and received home savings grants since the scheme was introduced. They are the ones who have received $108m in borne savings grants. The accusation that was made against all of those people is that they have accepted a bribe which is morally reprehensible and that they have been foolish to accept it as a bribe and not see through it for what it is, that is, according to the Opposition, a bribe. I have been reminded by the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  of a very significant event which occurred just a few days ago, namely, the awarding - happily to 2 of my constituents - of the first home savings grant under the new, increasingly improved scheme. 
I wish to contribute only a few brief remarks to this debate on the amendment to the Restrictive Trade Practices 
Act. I suppose that what could be said about the speech of the honourable member for Newscastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  is that at least he was consistent because it was very much the line that has been put abroad by members of the Opposition in speaking on this subject. But I think that honourable members might be excused for imagining that this was a debate on shipping rates, judging from the speech that we have just heard. Of course, it is not a debate on shipping rates at all; it is a debate on an amendment to the Restrictive Trade Practices Act designed to make it work, to make it operative - indeed, to do exactly what I understood the honourable member for Newscastle to be saying, namely, to give the Act some teeth. The purpose of the amendment now before the House is to give the Act those teeth that it perhaps does not have at the moment because of the situation that has arisen in regard to shipper bodies. I think that one could go further and say that the honourable member for Newscastle has made out a very good case why this amendment to the Act should be passed as soon as possible. 
But what are we concerned about in this debate? We are concerned about the operation of Part XII of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act in view of the situation that has arisen with respect to shipper bodies. Of course, the shipper bodies themselves play an integral part in the scheme of the legislation laid down in Part XII. Briefly, the scheme of the legislation is that the Act provides that this Part of the Act operates with respect to agreements and the agreements that are referred to and are subject to the operation of the Act are set out in some detail. They are, not surprisingly, agreements that are related to the fixing or regulation of freight rates, agreements under which there are given to the shippers of goods or withheld from shippers special rates or special privileges or advantages, agreements concerning the pooling or apportioning of earnings, losses or traffic and so on. Generally speaking, one could describe them as restrictive provisions. So, basically that is what we are concerned with in the operation of this Act - agreements between shipping companies which have within them restrictive provisions. 
The scheme of the legislation goes on to provide the machinery for examining these agreements with a view to achieving the result that is sought, which is that sought by the whole operation of the Restrictive Trades Practices Act, namely, an increasing competition and freedom in trade and commerce and, generally, a healthier climate for business activity. The type of examination or procedure to which these agreements are subjected is that which is sought under the Act, namely, negotiations. There is ample scope in the Act for negotiations between the parties to the Conference shipping agreements and the shippers. When I refer to the shippers, this brings me to the whole crux of the problem that has arisen. The problem arises not so much by the wording of the legislation as it has been but rather by virtue of the situation that exists with respect to the shipper bodies themselves. I would have thought, from an examination of the second reading speech of the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  that the problem that has arisen has been described very concisely and clearly. During the course of his second reading speech, the Minister said that, to overcome the difficulties which militated against the formation of separate shipper bodies in each trade, the study group that was appointed to examine this problem recommended to him that the existing legislative provisions be amended to allow a nationally constituted Australian Shippers Council to be the one designated body for negotiations in all Trades. 
It will be seen, of course, that what needed to be established under the legislation, as it was, was a separate shipper body with respect to each trade that was conducted from Australia. In his speech, the Minister for Trade and Industry made it clear that 5 of those shipper bodies had been established but that, nevertheless, there were other outgoing trades from Australia that were not as yet covered by shipper bodies. So, as the Minister explained when the Bill was introduced, it has become clear that what is necessary is the establishment of what he referred to as a nationally constituted Australian Shippers Council'. Of course, this Shippers Council will be the one shipper body which will be referred to henceforth in the legislation and with which negotiations will take place. It is fairly clear from that very brief outline of it that the machinery will be operated much more efficiently and practically with the one shippers council which will act as a party in these negotiations. 1 think that really is, quite simply, the sole problem which has arisen in this field. 
May I return to that part of the speech made by the honourable member for NewCastle. Where he referred at considerable length to the increases that have taken place in freight rates. What he did not say, or perhaps what he did not appreciate, was that the cases of substantial freight rate increases that he cited were ones in which there had been no shipper body or even in which there is still no shipper body. One very good example that the honourable member for Newcastle gave was that of the east coast of North America trade. It is a good example because it shows the situation that existed before the shipper body was established and the situation which has existed since the establishment of such a body. As I understand it, in 1971 on the east coast of North America trade there was no shipper body and, consequently, none of these negotiations which are an integral part of the operation of this Part Of the Act could take place. The result was that there was a freight rate increase of 25 per cent. However, in 1972, when there is  a  shipper body on that route, the increase has been only 6.5 per cent. 1 would have thought that from that example and, indeed, from the other examples that the honourable member for Newcastle gave one could see quite clearly that there is an advantage in having the one shipper body because, in the absence of a specific shipper body dealing with the particular area of trade, the negotiations which are so basic to the operation of this Act cannot take place. Although expressed in fairly concise terms, that is the situation. It is the reason and the explanation why this legislation is necessary. I would have thought that Part XII of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act provided a framework for a very effective trade practices system. Indeed, I think that one could make out quite a case for saying that this Part of the Act already has more potential teeth than the other parts of the Act. But, of course, only the framework is there in the legislation and if, because of this legislation, Part XII of the Act can be made to operate effectively - if it is given the raw material to act effectively - that would seem to me to make a very substantial contribution to increasing trade competition which, after all, is the very purpose of any restrictive trade practices legislation. 
I mentioned before that the basis of Part XII of the Act was negotiations, and that is so. What is directed in Part XII of the Act is that there will be negotiations between the shippers' bodies on the one hand and parties to the conference shipping agreements on the other. The Act as it is at the moment looks for specific and separate shippers' bodies, and when the Act is amended when this Bill becomes legislation there will merely be one designated shippers' body, and consequently those negotiations that are looked for in the legislation will be able to take place, and take place efficiently and practically. Let us not forget, especially when we hear the honourable member for Newcastle refer to the weakness of this legislation, that the consequences of noncompliance with these provisions of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act are very serious consequences indeed, because the Government has the power under this legislation, if the provisions of it are not complied with, to bring the conference shipping agreements to an end. It is worthwhile having a look at section 117 of the Act to see just how far those consequences go. When one looks at section 117 of the Act one sees that the Government - the Governor-General, as it is expressed in the Act - 'may by order disapprove a conference agreement'. That means that he may disapprove a conference agreement whether or not the particulars of the agreement have been filed under the Act. He may do so on any one of a number of grounds. 
He may do so on the ground that the parties to the agreement have not appointed an agent for the purpose of negotiations as they are required to do under the legislation. The agreement may be disapproved on an alternative ground that the parties to the agreement have not complied with a request from the Minister that an undertaking should be given that open and frank negotiations and discussions take place. That is an obligation imposed by the legislation on parties to the agreement, and if that undertaking is not given that is a ground for disapproving the conference agreement. If on a report from the Trade Practices Tribunal, the Minister is satisfied that the agreement - I paraphase slightly - is one that will not give rise in its terms or ils operation to efficient, economical or adequate competition the agreement may be disapproved. Without going on, one can say that there are very clearly provisions in this part of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act which can be very effective indeed so long as they can be put into operation. What has stopped this part of the Act from being put into operation is the problem I have described as the problem of having appropriate shippers' bodies established with which the negotiations can take place. As I have said, it is sought by this legislation to have designated as one shippers' body the Australian Shippers Council and that henceforth that will be the body which will be a party to these very important negotiations. When this amendment is made this legislation should be very effective. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he and his Ministers will be, over the next few weeks, explaining to the people of Australia for achievements of the Government and its policies for the future. Assuming that this is so, will the Prime Minister give an assurance that those policies and achievements will be put forward solely by people who are elected by the people of Australia and responsible to the people through this Parliament? Has the Prime Minister noticed that another political party seems to be departing from that principle - thus giving some concern to some sections of the community and, indeed, to sections even within that party - and will he give an assurance that that practice will not be followed within his own Party or the coalition? 
My question, which is addressed to the Attorney-General, relates to legal aid. I ask him whether he appreciates the importance of having a wide ranging legal aid scheme which adequately caters for the needs of all people in Australia who genuinely are in need of legal aid. Is it also important that such a legal aid scheme should be one where duplication is not the hallmark, as seems to be the case with legal aid as it exists today? In particular I ask the AttorneyGeneral: What is the future of the Australian Legal Aid Office? Can the Attorney give an undertaking that the Australian Legal Aid Office will not be abolished without there having been held beforehand an inquiry by a joint committee of both Houses of the Parliament to consider the important legal, social and constitutional issues involved? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker- 

-Like many other honourable members,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to convey my congratulations to you and through you to the  Speaker  upon your election to your respective high offices. At a time when the parliamentary system is under challenge both here and overseas there is indeed a very heavy responsibility upon you both. I am confident that you will carry out and exercise that responsibility in the best traditions of those offices that you hold and to preserve the democratic government system under which we live. 
The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  has moved an amendment to the principal motion before the House. I wish by way of introduction to address a few remarks to the House about that amendment. The honourable member said that he was not moaning. I accept him at face value on that. But, with respect, it does seem to be yet another instalment of the continuing whinge about the great constitutional issue that rocked Australia last year. I do not object to speaking about this issue, but before we analyse it I do wish we could get some basic principles into perspective. The most basic principle of all about this issue is that the Opposition, when it was in government, was intending and attempting to govern as an executive without the approval of this Parliament. The then Prime Minister, like some petulant Stuart king, was endeavouring to govern this country with money raised not through proper appropriations of the Parliament but by any means that he could to obtain the money with which to govern. He was prepared to use the Audit Act; he was prepared to borrow money from the banks; he was prepared to go on governing without any new appropriation of any form. No matter where the money came from he was prepared to govern as long as he could remain in office. 
If there is a safeguard in our parliamentary system of government- and there is- it is the reserve power that exists in the GovernorGeneral to dismiss a government when it persists in attempting to govern without appropriations from the Parliament. Let us not forget that as a basic principle of our system. In the Australian context, let us not forget that there is an equally important principle, that is, that the Parliament in this country consists not only of the House of Representatives but of the Queen, the Senate and the House of Representatives. It is through that procedure that appropriation legislation must pass before any executive government can continue governing this country. That is what the constitutional issue is and that is where the breach of the Constitution by the previous 
Government took place. One could say a great deal about this issue. One could quote academic lawyers, some of whom I regret to say were in the pay of the previous Government although they held themselves out as being independent. One could quote textbooks and opinions until the cows come home, if honourable members will excuse that rural expression. 
I want to refer to an extract which seems to me to sum up the whole constitutional issue. It is a one sentence observation made by the prestigious English magazine  The Economist.  It was written only a few days after the previous Government was dismissed and I suggest to the House that it summarises the whole of the constitution issue. 
A society in which the government of the day can do almost anything it likes with the support of a transient majority in a single assembly is more vulnerable to the abuse of power than one in which government is circumscribed by countervailing institutions such as a strong upper House. 
I ask honourable members to put that in the context of Australia in November and December last year. That Government certainly was vulnerable to the abuse of power. It would have become more vulnerable to the abuse of power if the Governor-General had not exercised the reserve power in him to insist that a government cannot continue to govern unless it passes appropriation legislation through the Parliament. The Parliament, as I said, consists of the Queen, the Senate and the House of Representatives. One could go on arguing about this all day. I mention these points because they are basic principles. Before one can discuss the argument contained in the amendment, one must understand that they are the basic principles upon which the Australian constitutional and parliamentary system exists. 
The honourable member for Wimmera, who interjected earlier, said that this was my second maiden speech. It is not. There must be some expression to describe a speech made by someone who has been absent from the Parliament for 3 years, as I have. There must be some expression other than 'maiden speech' which can be used. Although I have searched the dictionary of antonyms I cannot find such an expression. Nevertheless, I think it is wise to remember that one who has been absent from the Parliament during the salutary experience of being out of office for 3 years is probably in a valuable position to see from the outside the way in which society has changed and the way government has gone during his absence. I trust that the House will excuse me if I make some general observations about what has happened to this country and to our society during the last 3 years. 
One can learn a lot during the salutary experience of being out of Parliament. The odd thing, however, about some people in politics, some political parties and above all some leaders of political parties, is that they do not seem to learn very much from a period of government or a period of opposition. If one looks at the speech made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  just 2 days ago one might be excused for reaching the conclusion that he does not seem to have learned very much over the last 3 years, nor does his Party. One can analyse that speech in detail, but I do not wish to do so. I suggest that there are 2 touchstones, 2 keys in that speech which indicate the Labor Party's attitude to society and government. There are 2 themes that run through it which show why the Labor Party is on the other side of the House now and why it will probably remain threre. The first of these themes is the economic issue and,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you will recall that the Leader of the Opposition, in his speech the other night said that we on this side of the Parliament were the men who 'obstructed all economic and social reforms'. These were the economic and social reforms which apparently took place in the last 3 years while I was absent from the Parliament. 
Let us look at what these reforms are. I was intrigued when I heard the expression used by the Leader of the Opposition. What are the economic reforms that took place during the last 3 years? Was one the record unemployment that racked this country and above all damaged the very people, the small people to whom the honourable member for Scullin referred in his amendment? Was that one of the reforms? Was one the inflation that continued through that 3-year period and which ate into the savings of those very same people whom the honourable member for Scullin mentions in his amendment? Were the reforms the decay of our great rural industries over the last 3 years and the rising interest rates that affected us all? Was one of them the increasing taxation burden which has sapped the initiative of all people who rely on their own effort and self-help to earn a living? Was one of the reforms the new wave of tariff cuts that almost destroyed a number of industries in Australia such as the textile industry, the clothing industry and the footwear industry? Was that an economic reform that came into operation over the last 3 years? Was the doubling of the Federal Budget in 3 years one of the reforms? It is extraordinary that a Leader of the Opposition can stand up at a time when he has gone out of office, having brought the country to the brink of economic disaster, and say that during his period of government economic reforms were introduced, and then go on and have the impertinence to say that we obstructed those economic reforms. That is quite extraordinary. 
Again one can see from the Leader of the Opposition's speech just what attitude he takes towards the dynamic forces in our society which can restore the economy of Australia to what it was. He refers to the encouragement of enterprise. How does he describe the encouragement of enterprise? He describes that as a cliche. It is not an inbuilt strength in the economy which can revitalise industry, which can increase employment, which can tend to lower inflation, it is none of that to the Leader of the Opposition; to him it is a cliche. It is bureaucratic domination, with the enormous increase in the Federal Budget. If we point to bureaucratic domination he describes that as a cliche. That is a fairly good indication of the way in which the Leader of the Opposition sees this country and this society. 
The same principles are not confined only to economic matters; they go further than that. They go to the whole realm of the individual's involvement in society. It is well that we should bear in mind the concern of people these days that they should have some involvement in the power structure that surrounds them. The other day the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  eloquently referred to the desire of people to participate in their field of employment. That is not the only field in which the individual wishes to participate. He wishes to participate in his government; he wishes to make sure that the democratic system under which he is governed is a system that enables him to express his views and opinions and to have those views respected by a government which can carry them out. Above all he wants to have some involvement in his trade union if he is a unionist. One honourable member made some brief remarks about the proposal that secret ballots should be introduced for the election of office bearers in trade unions. We have committed ourselves to that principle. 
It is very enlightening, I would suggest, and very instructive to see what is said by those who are opposed to that principle of secret ballots for the election of union office bearers. Of course, one of the most vocal opponents of this proposal is  Mr Halfpenny  of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. He, like some other people on the other side of the House and in the trade union movement, says: 'We already have secret ballots'. Such people point to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and say that an organisation cannot be registered unless provision is made in its rules for the election of its office bearers by secret ballot. Of course the office bearers of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union are elected by a secret ballot. What sort of secret ballot is it? It is a ballot conducted in the union offices. We want secret ballots conducted by the Commonwealth Electoral Office to ensure that the individual member of a trade union has a free and unqualified opportunity to express his view on who should govern him in that power structure known as his trade union. That is vital. 
What is the situation with regard to the conduct of trade union ballots in that union of which I am speaking? They are conducted by a returning officer- not an outside independent personwho is an official of the union. The election takes place in the union offices. I do not know much about the internal workings of the offices of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union but I think it would take a high degree of charity to regard them as anything like the implementation of a proper system of democratic elections. It is extremely unlikely that that union's election of office bearers is conducted on any democratic principles at all. No doubt  Mr Halfpenny  and his colleagues would point again to the rules of their organisation which say that not only is the election of office bearers to be conducted by a secret ballot but also there is an enforcement provision; there is- to use that dreadful expression- a penal clause in the rules of that union to guarantee that the election is conducted properly. What exactly does that clause state? It states that if there is any attempt to intimidate people in the course of their voting or if there is any attempt to manipulate the election, a fine shall be imposed on the person responsible. The minimum fine is the grand sum of 25c and the maximum is $2. One can imagine how the prospect of a fine of 25c or $2 would terrorise anyone in that union who might be tempted to exert any influence over the conduct of an election in that union. 
We say that individual trade unionists have the right to have a proper say in the governing of the affairs of their trade union. They can have that say only if they have a free and unqualified opportunity to elect the office bearers of their union by a free ballot conducted under the supervision of the Commonwealth Electoral Office. Until they have that say we cannot describe the election of those office bearers as a democratic process. I say that because it is important, particularly in this day and age, that individuals should have an opportunity to have some participation in the power structure which surrounds them, whether it is the Government, their trade union or their place of employment. 
-Or the Liberal Party. What a contrast our organisation is to the organisation with which the honourable member is involved. 
-I understand that a new ballot will be conducted in the Labor Party Caucus room in the very near future. I return briefly to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Scullin. In my submission it should be rejected by this House. In his amendment the honourable member said:  . . . the Speech- 
That is the Governor-General 's Speech-  makes no acknowledgement of the financial pre-eminence of the House of Representatives . . . 
The honourable member might realise that the Budget is introduced into the House of Representatives. He might have noticed, if he had been in the chamber earlier today, that there were pieces of financial legislation introduced into the House of Representatives. He might know that from here those Bills will go to the Senate. If that does not illustrate the financial pre-eminence of the House of Representatives, I do not know what it does. In his amendment the honourable member for Scullin went on to say that:  ... the speech makes no reference to the need for action to ensure that there cannot be a recurrence of the Constitutional crisis which threatens the continuation of the Australian Parliamentary system . . . 
If there is a threat to the continuation of the parliamentary system it is the threat imposed by those who will not work through the parliamentary system. That system requires government by the Senate and by the House of Representatives. The reason for the downfall of the previous Government was that it was not prepared to work through that dual system of government. Finally, the amendment of the honourable member for Scullin stated:  ... the proposals outlined in the Speech are so framed as to cause a major transfer of resources from the middle and low income families to those on higher income levels. 
What an absurd proposition that is. Probably it occurred under the previous Government. The people most harmed by the inflationary excessed, by the high unemployment and by the high interest rates that existed over the last 3 years were those very people, the middle and low income families. Those on higher incomes were able to a large extent to protect themselves. It was the people on the low and middle incomes who were not able to protect themselves and who suffered most from the excesses of the previous Government. The workers in the textile factories, the workers in the footwear factories and the workers in the clothing factories would laugh themselves stupid if they saw this part of the amendment. As I said at the outset, it is interesting to see what has happened to the country, to the Government of this country and to the economy of this country during the last 3 years. My distress and disappointment at what happened to this country over the last 3 years is relieved, I am happy to say, by an unqualified confidence that the next 3 years will not only right those wrongs, will not only put this country back onto a sound economic footing, but also will take this country to the greatness that I think is in store for it. 
-I direct to the Prime Minister a question concerning the matter raised by the honourable member for Franklin on Tuesday, namely, income tax. Has the Prime Minister had drawn to his attention the contents of a speech made on Monday by  Mr Carnegie,  the  chairman  of the Conzine Riotinto of Australia group of companies, in which  Mr Carnegie  very persuasively advocated the important need for substantial reductions in income tax on the incomes of skilled tradesmen and managerial and executive level employees? I ask the Prime Minister whether, in addition to the comforting news that there will be no increase in income tax, he can possibly hold out any reasonable hope for at least a substantial and close review leading to the possibility of reductions in income tax for these sections of the community, which more than any other section of the community contribute to increases in productivity. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many Social Security Appeals Tribunals are there. 
Who are the members of each Tribunal. 
On what date was each member appointed. 
What is the tenure of office of each member. 
What are the terms and conditions of appointment of each member. 
What salary or other emoluments are paid to each member. 
What sum of money has been paid to each member. 
What are the entitlements and privileges, other than monetary, of each member. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, the Government has a number of pressing and urgent matters to attend to and it is for that reason that I have been asked to speak for only about 5 minutes on this subject. That I agreed to do with some regret, because this is a matter of very great interest and importance and the subject of almost daily conversation where I come from. This is a piece of legislation which, as the Opposition has indicated, should be given a speedy passage through the House because it introduces a reform in the citation of statutes with which one could not disagree. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  already has described amply the nature of the reform. Very briefly, to take the example referred to by the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  in his second reading speech, the reform is to avoid the necessity to cite a statute by reference, as in the case of the Customs Act, to the years 1901-1974. It is desirable to amend that citation because the citation tells the reader nothing whatsoever about any amendments that may have been made since 1974. Indeed, it is no exaggeration to say that the citation in fact might be misleading. So it is felt by the Government, for very good reason, that it is desirable to refer to statutes in other statutes by reference solely to the year in which the Bill became an Act. One could not disagree with the proposition that that is a reform. 
However, with respect, I think that one question does arise which the Attorney-General might answer for me. That question is: What advantage does that have over a system by which one refers, for example, to the Customs Act 1901? One would have thought that if one referred to the Customs Act  simpliciter  without any year appearing after the name of the Act, that would achieve the same purpose and would remove any doubt whatsoever as to whether one should look in the statutes of a particular year to find what had happened to that statute. It would avoid the necessity of tracing through the subsequent history of the statute. In other words, when one sees a reference to the Act as the Customs Act 1901 one is really in no better position than if one saw a reference to the Act as the Customs Act  simpliciter  Nevertheless, it is undoubtedly a reform in the manner in which it has been proposed, and one cannot argue against the proposition that it is a reform and that consequently it should be supported by the House. 
The question of the citation of the Act is not of course the end of the matter. One would hope that this would be the first step in a series of reforms which I hope the Attorney-General will initiate in the whole area of the drafting of statutes, in references to statutes, to the raw materials and source material available, to inform the reader as to what amendments have been made and where those amendments can be found. It is a soul-destroying task, as I have found in the past, and which may mean to the public hours of very expensive labour, to ascertain what amendments have been made to Acts, where those amendments are to be found and what those amendments contain. It was, for that reason, very pleasing to me to find that the Commonwealth has published a consolidation of the statutes up to and including 1 973. 1 should like to read briefly some words contained in the foreword to the first volume of that consolidation by the then Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy.  He said a lot of course which is best forgotten, but I think that the remarks he made in this foreword are worthy of remembering. The then AttorneyGeneral said: 
It is essential that the publication of our laws be kept up to date so that those interested can find out quickly and easily what the law is. 
He went on to say: 
The Australian Government believes that this consolidation will achieve that purpose. These volumes will be uncluttered by those Acts of the Parliament which have expired or become inoperative. 
At a later stage in the same foreword he said: 
Our Government believes that consolidations should occur at intervals of about 5 years. 
I agree with the that proposition and I hope that that is one reform of the previous Government which will be continued by the present Government and future governments. The law should be available to the citizen and to the lawyer and they should both be able to find the law without the present Herculean task of ploughing through volumes of dusty statutes to find out what the current law is and what it provides. I hope that some consideration will be given to the Victorian practice of publishing at frequent intervals reprints of individual statutes, which are kept in a loose-leaf volume. Practitioners of the law subscribe to the publication, and every now and again they get reprints of statutes which bring them up to date with all of the amendments. So a person need refer merely to one statute in his volume and there is the whole of the law on that one subject. That would seem to me to be a very desirable reform which should be introduced for Commonwealth legislation. 
Nevertheless I come back to the basic Bill which is presently before the House and remind the House that, as I said at the outset, this is undoubtedly a reform which is introduced by the Bill, and a reform with which one could not disagree. Apart from commending the Bill, I repeat what I said at the outset, that I only regret that the Government's busy program prevents me from speaking longer on this gripping and enthralling subject. 
My question which is addressed to the Prime Minister concerns taxation. Has the Government made a firm commitment to introduce tax indexation? If it has, when will it be introduced and when will it be announced that it will be introduced? More importantly, can the Prime Minister advise whether tax indexation will give immediate taxation relief to taxpayers in Australia or will give relief only in the years following its introduction? Finally, can the Prime Minister tell me what reasonable expectations, if any, the taxpayer may have of reforms to taxation over and above and quite separate from tax indexation? 
-I can see that during my 3 years absence from the Parliament not very much has changed because we have just heard from the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  the sort of speech that was frequently delivered by honourable members of the Opposition when I was here previously. We heard the same turgid, ponderous cliches trotted out one after the other; the same impossibility to recognise what really makes the country operate; the same failure to realise what is at the roots cause of the economic problems facing this country. 
Indeed, as my colleague the honourable member for Berowra said, that is why they are sitting on the other side of the House. The speech of the honourable member for Reid was very enlightening. As I comprehend it, he was saying that he is opposed to the investment allowance being introduced for a number of reasons. The first reason he advanced was that it was just an attempt to prop up the capitalist system in this country which had broken down. I suppose there is a great deal of truth in that because the economic infrastructure of this country certainly broke down over the last 3 years. I remind the honourable member and those opposite of the decisions taken by their Government, such as its tariff decisions, irresponsibly taken and quite indifferent to the consequences in individual industries; the wholesale attack on business and commerce that took place during its time in power; the attempt to finance its grandiose schemes through outrageous and uncontrolled rates of taxation which crucified people who showed any incentive whatsoever; and its wholesale attack on the rural industries. Without mentioning any more of its endeavours over the previous 3 years they are enough in themselves to show that if anyone is responsible for the imminent decay of the system in this country it is the people who presently sit on the other side of the House. 
The honourable member for Reid said that he was also opposed to the investment allowance because it was a wholesale attack on the workers and on the Labor movement. How on earth and by what curious cerebral processes he reaches that conclusion, I fail to see. I remind him that when the coalition parties left government in 1972 just under 100 000 people were unemployed. That number rocketed to 300 000 during the time that we were in Opposition. When we introduce measures in the Parliament to stimulate investment, to increase productivity, to provide jobs for the unemployed so that they can look after themselves and their families, what is the reaction? The measures are described as being a wholesale attack on the workers. They are not a wholesale attack on the workers; they are a wholesale attempt to get more people in this country working. 
Again we hear from the honourable member for Reid the universal socialist panacea- public spending. That is the solution to all problems. According to the socialists, we should not worry about the sections of the economy that provide three out of four jobs; we should not worry about sections of the economy in which there arc people who show some initiative and who are prepared to work and improve their positions. The socialists say we should solve all our problems by increasing the percentage of total resources going in to the public sector and there will be no worries; there will be no tomorrows. Who will produce the goods and services? We are never told. Who will pay for the grandiose schemes? We are never told. So it goes on- the same tedious panacea. 'Solve all your problems' they say 'by increasing government expenditure'. 
The investment allowance which we are debating tonight is very commendable and should be supported by all members in this House. Like all measures it is not perfect and I hope to draw attention to some of the minor defects of it at a later stage; but it is a commendable provision in my view as it will, as has been explained, stimulate investment in the private sector once again. I remind honourable members of the simple statistic referred to by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his second reading speech, in which he pointed out that during the period from 1972-73 to 1974-75 the share of private non-dwelling investment, which is the private investment sector, in total expenditure of gross domestic product was 10.7 per cent. Not only was it 10.7 per cent; it was also the lowest recorded share for at least 20 years. That is the situation this country has got into- one of declining investment and declining productivity, a situation in which there is no incentive or encouragement to the private sector to invest, expand and create job opportunities. The investment allowance is a commendable attempt to reverse that trend and it should be supported for that reason. 
I wanted to quote at some length from the explanatory paper accompanying this Bill but I will not do so, save to say that in the explanatory paper which has been put forward by the 
Treasurer together with the Bill, the investment allowance is explained in all the necessary detail. It is a wide-ranging scheme. As the House would know, in essence it is a taxation deduction of 40 per cent, or 20 per cent in the long term period, of the cost of certain defined plant and equipment, purchased or leased and put to productive use. As I have said, it is an attempt to restore investment confidence in the country. The honourable member for Reid and other honourable members on the other side of the House seem to have some doubts as to whether it will work. To cite one example of the way in which it is already working I refer to a statement in the  Australian Financial Review  of 28 April 1976. It is a statement of a report given by  Mr Harry,  who is the  chairman  of Vickers Australia Ltd. He praised the investment allowance that is being introduced by the Government for this reason: 
It encourages us to give priority to a feasibility study to see whether we should not compress into the next 3 years capital expenditure on machine tools which would normally be made over the next 6 years. 
Australian engineering industry would benefit significantly from such a program on our pan, for we know from past experience that quite extraordinary productivity gains can flow from the use of modern machine tools. 
That is the sort of sign that we want to see from industry. It is the sort of sign that we will see from industry, more so when the investment allowance becomes more widely known and when it is used by people to acquire, whether by purchase or by lease, new plant and equipment, and when they start to put that to productive use. 
I said that like most programs this one is not without blemish. I want to make some constructive comments about some of the defects in the scheme which I hope the Government will have a further look at with a view to amending or changing them at some later stage after the scheme is in operation. The first is that when the scheme was originally proposed by the Treasurer, there was a bottom limit of $1,000, that is to say, plant and equipment costing less than $1,000 would not be eligible for the investment allowance. A number of us on this side of the House who are concerned about the state of small business and concerned that there should be more incentive and encouragement given to small business made representations to the Treasurer, as a result of which that $1,000 limit has been reduced to $500. There is a shading-in stage between the $500 and the $ 1,000 limit. But with respect, it would seem to me that there is a very strong case for abolishing the $500 bottom limit altogether. I hope that the Government will consider this. 
There are a number of reasons why this should be so. The first is the fact that there is much plant and equipment which would otherwise be eligible under this scheme and which in fact costs less than $500. 1 think for instance of some of the machinery that one would find used in small factories, such as spinning equipment. Quite often, even despite inflation over the last 3 years, it still costs less than $500. It would seem to me that this is an area where more incentive should be given to acquire plant and equipment costing less than $500. The second reason is that there are many deductions which are claimed for taxation purposes which are very small indeed and certainly much smaller than $500. The whole range of taxation deductions is open to those who can establish that the deduction has been incurred. There is no normal $500 bottom limit so far as taxation concessions are concerned. 
I fail to be persuaded by the argument which I gather is advanced as to why there is a $500 limit, namely that of administrative convenience. It is said, I understand, that there is an administrative difficulty in calculating the allowance on items costing less than $500 and that for that reason the limit should be $500. I am not persuaded by that. It would seem to me no more difficult to calculate the allowance on items costing less than $500 than on items costing more. The other argument which I put forward quite seriously- and I am sure  Mr Deputy Speaker  that you would have had the experience that most other people have had- is that the taxation Commissioner himself is not renowned for ignoring items of income which happen to be small. In fact these days there seems to be a concern to place a very close scrutiny on all sources of income- all items and heads of income- no matter how small they may be. It would seem to me that if we are concerned with a situation as we are with taxation as it is in Australia where we calculate all sources of income then calculate all areas of deductions, then what is appropriate so far as income is concerned is equally appropriate so far as deductions are concerned. Accordingly I hope that the Government will have another look at this matter, if not before the legislation is passed then at a later stage after the scheme has been in operation for some time to see whether there is not some way of reducing the limit further or indeed of abolishing the bottom limit of $500. 1 believe that to do so would be a very powerful incentive so far as small business is concerned. 
I mention another of the areas which I think should be looked at more closely. It is certainly an area which does not require amendment at this stage before the legislation is passed, but it is an area which should be looked at very closely indeed when the scheme is under operation. That is the very commendable provision of the Bill, extending the investment allowance to plant and equipment which is leased rather than purchased right out. It is a recognition of commercial reality that these days companies and businessmen lease much plant and equipment rather than buy it straight out. Why do we shy away from the fact that they do so in many cases because the leasing charges are deductible? It is a recognition of commercial reality that this is a very large area of activity where people lease equipment rather than buy it right out. It is therefore very appropriate that the investment allowance should apply just as much to leased property as it should to purchased property. But what I am very concerned with is that the Government should make a very close scrutiny to see that the advantages of this investment allowance scheme are really passed on to the lessee. It is the lessee who will use the equipment; it is the lessee who will put the equipment to productive use; it is the lessee who will employ people in the use of that equipment. It is therefore very important to see that the totality of the benefit of the investment allowance is received by the lessee. I put this very seriously to the Treasurer who is not at the table that the Government should give very close scrutiny to this matter to ensure that the scheme is implemented properly. 
I return to one principal matter so far as the substance of the investment allowance is concerned. The investment allowance has had a very chequered history. It has been introduced, it has been taken away and it has now been restored on a more generous and long term basis. I venture to suggest that the predictions that were made by the present Government when the investment allowance was abolished by the socialists have in fact come true. In the Budget in 1973, the former Treasurer, that is to say the most recent Treasurer's predecessor twice removed, announced that the investment allowance was to be abolished. He announced that it was to be abolished on a very strange ground. The ground he advanced was that it would encourage uneconomic activity to allow the investment allowance to continue. The present  Speaker  of the House who was then the Leader of the Opposition spoke in opposition to the removal of the investment allowance. It is very significant to read what the then Leader of the Opposition said about the abolition of the investment allowance and the consequences that were in store for the economy of the country as a result of that abolition. It must be very comforting to him to know that this prediction, like a number of his predictions on economic matters, have come true.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I trust that you will convey this to him when next you see him. The then Leader of the Opposition said on that occasion: 
A further disincentive directly affecting the manufacturing industry is the discontinuation of the investment allowance on the installed cost of new manufacturing plant and equipment in the first year after installation. 
He went on to say: 
The effect of this will be to deter investment in new plant. Manufacturing capacity, implementation of new technology and productivity improvement will be badly affected. 
One might say: 'How right he was'. Since the abolition of the investment allowance, although not solely for that reason, manufacturing capacity did decline. We saw that the implementation of new technology and productivity improvement was badly affected. They were the consequences not only of the abolition of the investment allowance- I concede that at the outsetbut they were also the consequences of a wholesale attack on any step by government to encourage investment in the private sector of the economy. The abolition of the investment allowance was just one illustration of the way in which the previous Government launched that wholesale attack on the private sector. 
Finally,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  with your indulgence I should like to make a few brief remarks about an area of taxation which is not directly related to the investment allowance, but which is relevant because we are concerned with a Bill on income tax. The proposition that I would make in the very few moments left to me is that there are many areas of taxation which are in desperate need of urgent attention and reform. We are to introduce tax indexation, and that will be of great benefit. But let us not fool ourselves that that is going to be a solution to many of the problems and many of the hardships imposed by the present system and structure of taxation. The first matter that will have to be attended to is the iniquitous system of provisional income tax. If it were not for the onerous burdens that I have had in my electorate recently I would have prepared an amendment either to abolish or to substantially reform and restrict the implementation of the system of provisional income tax. I mention this matter at this stage to give the Government and the Treasury officials time to prepare before the next appropriate occasion, a defence, if there is one, to this indefensible system of taxation. 
I want to give one final example of the way in which personal income tax is adversely affecting people. This afternoon I received a letter from a constituent of mine who has a part-time teaching job. Last month he received $337.60 gross for his teaching. The tax on that was $159.15. He was left with $178.45. He is being taxed at a rate of 47 per cent. He has a wife and 6 children. He is trying to improve himself and his condition in the world; he is trying to get ahead. But he is being held back and being crucified by being taxed at the rate of 47 per cent. Last month he was taxed at the rate of 33 per cent; this month it is 47 per cent. That is iniquitous. In my submission it is quite indefensible and the system should be the subject of instant reform. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications upon notice: 
Has the Australian Postal Commission engaged a firm of public relations consultants. 
If so, what is the name of the firm. 
On what date did the Commission engage the firm. 
Des the Commission pay a retainer to the firm; if so, what is the amount of the retainer. 
) What fees, other than by way of retainer, are paid on a regular basis by the Commission to the firm. 
What sum has been paid by the Commission to the firm by way of (a) retainer, (b) fees other than retainer and (c) other emoluments. 
Is the firm retained by the Commission pursuant to an agreement or contract. 
8 ) If so, what are the terms of the agreement or contract. 
What is the duration of the agreement or contract. 
10) What work has been done by the firm for the Commission since the commencement of its retainer. 
What work is regularly performed by the firm for the Commission. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister seen the statement in the Report of the  President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for the year ending 13 August 1975 that accommodation for the Commission in Brisbane is completely inadequate and quite unsuitable. 
Has the Government taken any action to provide the Commission with adequate and suitable accommodation in Brisbane; if so, what action. 
Has the Government any plans to provide the Commission with adequate and suitable accommodation in Brisbane; if so, what are they. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) In what manner is the policy of the Australian Postal Commission relating to the official opening of new Post Offices applied. 
What is the practice of the Commission with respect to the actual person who officially opens new Post Offices. 
) Was it the practice of the former Postmaster-General 's Department that the Member of the House of Representatives within whose Electoral Division a new Post Office was situated should officially open the Post Office. 
Has that practice of the former Postmaster-General's Department been abandoned or altered; if so, in what way and for what reason. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
How many new Post Offices have been officially opened since the inception of the Australian Postal Commission. 
What is the location of each of these Post Offices. 
What actual person officially opened each of these Post Offices. 
-The Ombudsman Bill establishes the Commonwealth Ombudsman. It is a Bill which I am pleased to see meets with the general support of the Opposition. It should also be supported by all outside the Parliament who are concerned with public administration in Australia and the scrutiny to which that public administration should be subjected. It is important in these days that there should be some means by which complaints which individual citizens have against governments can be properly examined and rectified if, on examination, some rectification appears necessary. The need for such a system seems to me, with respect, to increase day by day as government becomes larger, more involved, more expensive and more ubiquitous and which seeks to control almost every aspect of our lives. It is inevitable that as the size and complexity of government expands, so the number and complexity of complaints against governments will also increase. Accordingly, there is today more of a need for an ombudsman and a wide-ranging system of review of administrative decisions than there has ever been previously. 
The functions of the Ombudsman will be, as has already been explained, to investigate allegations that are made by individuals against administrative discretion and the way in which it has been exercised, to ascertain whether an injustice has been done to the individual citizen and, if there is an injustice, to initiate steps that will result in rectifying it. There is no doubt that the appointment of the Commonwealth Ombudsman under this legislation is a substantial step towards ensuring that any Australian citizen who suffers an alleged injustice at the hands of the Federal Government or its agencies will have that alleged injustice investigated and, if an injustice is established, he will have it rectified. It is easy to point to specific provisions of this Bill and to argue that the Ombudsman should be given wider and more stringent powers. Those who argue along those lines may well have some merits on their side, but it is important to realise that an ombudsman is still comparatively new in the Australian experience. It is only sensible to see how the Ombudsman works in practice for some years so that the strengths and weaknesses of the office can be assessed. It is important, I believe, to establish the office of Commonwealth Ombudsman as soon as possible and in the manner set out in the Bill, to get it working, to study its operation in detail and then, on the basis of that experience, to implement whatever improvements are necessary to make the Ombudsman even more effective. 
One may well ask what are the criteria that have to be satisfied to have an effective ombudsman. I believe that these criteria were adequately and accurately set out by the present Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  when the Bill was last before this House on 4 June 1975. The Minister said, firstly, that the Ombudsman should be independent, secondly that he should be impartial, thirdly that he should have a thorough understanding of government, fourthly that he should be accessible, and, fifthly, that he should have powers to recommend and to publicise but not to overrule and to change. This Bill certainly meets those criteria which, as I say, are the essential criteria for an effective ombudsman. 
The main structure of this Bill is to establish the office of Commonwealth Ombudsman and to declare that his functions are to investigate complaints made to him concerning action relating to matters of administration by departments or public authorities and to investigate administrative action taken by departments or public authorities. The Ombudsman will have a discretion not to investigate some complaints which could best be described as stale claims, frivolous or vexatious complaints and complaints where the complainant does not have a sufficient interest in the matter. The Ombudsman will be obliged to inform the Minister and the principal officer of the department or authority concerned that some action of the department or authority is to be investigated. The Ombudsman will have power to obtain information from such persons and to make such inquiry as he thinks fit. This is a valuable provision as it will enable the Ombudsman to find his own way, especially in the early stages of his work and to work with flexibility depending on the circumstances of each particular case and the circumstances of the department or authority where the alleged injustice took place. 
The Ombudsman must have a degree of power to translate his investigations into actions if he discovers conduct that deserves some sort of censure or admonishment. Accordingly, in the first place, if he discovers that an officer has been guilty of a breach of duty or of misconduct he may bring it to the notice of the responsible officer or department. Subsequently, if the Ombudsman concludes that the action he is investigating is contrary to the law, unreasonable, unjust, oppressive, improperly discriminatory,, based on a mistake of law or fact, or just plain wrong, he is to report to the department or authority and may request it to report to him on action it proposes to take on the Ombudsman 's recommendation. If no action is taken on his recommendations the Ombudsman may inform the Prime Minister. The Ombudsman may take similar action if a discretionary power has been exercised for an improper purpose or on irrelevant grounds. 
It may be argued that the Ombudsman will not have sufficient sanctions or power to rectify the injustices or administrative transgressions that he discovers and that this reporting process is a poor substitute for giving the Ombudsman executive power to rectify those injustices or transgressions. However, there are Several considerations which suggest that the powers given to the Ombudsman by the Bill are substantial. He will be obliged, in effect, to give the Minister or departmental head advance notice that trouble is brewing in his department. Clearly, some injustices calling for rectification will be rectified at this early stage. Further, the Ombudsman may make recommendations on rectifying objectionable decisions that he has discovered. It would be a bold Minister or permanent head or other official who did not give very serious consideration to such recommendations. The Ombudsman may then take it further and report to the Prime Minister- the final resort in the executive structure. If some proper rectification is not made by then the department or authority fully deserves the exposure to the public eye which it will receive when the Ombudsman exercises his ultimate power to report on the issue to the Parliament. He will have that power and no doubt he will use it in appropriate cases. The ultimate spotlight of exposure in the Parliament, and hence to the world at large, is a very powerful sanction which the Ombudsman will have. No doubt it is a power that he will use only as a last resort, but it is a very real power which bureaucrats know can be exercised, and it will act as a very powerful inducement to them to comply with the reasonable recommendations of the Ombudsman. 
The Ombudsman also must report to the Parliament on his operations each year and may put in other reports for parts of the year. This will give him even further power to place the operations of government before the public scrutiny and report to the Parliament on how the system is working. It is quite likely that by these means most complaints investigated by the Ombudsman will be rectified in the course of the invesigation itself. This has been the experience in Sweden where ombudsmen have the ultimate power to engage in litigation to rectify wrongs which they discover. In fact that ultimate power is exercised very rarely. For instance, in 1966 the Swedish ombudsmen settled some 1700 cases and took legal proceedings in only 3 cases. Ninetenths of the complaints that they received proved to be quite unfounded or without any evidence at all. Likewise, I suggest it would be reasonable to expect in our case in Australia that most of the complaints discovered by the Ombudsman will be rectified in the course of his investigation or when he makes his recommendations. 
It remains to be said that the Ombudsman will not stand alone, but that he is part of a trifurcated framework of review of administrative decisions. In the first place, the office of Ombudsman is one that will complement the Administrative Appeals Tribunal which allows for appeals against decisions of Ministers and officials in certain specified cases. The Tribunal has now been established and is in the early stages of operation. The third part of the review structure is carried out in the courts of law by means of the prerogative writs, the ancient writs of prohibition,  certiorari, mandamus  and  quo warranto  which draw on the inherent reserve power of justice which resides in the Crown. 
These cumbersome procedures are groaning under the burden of being used for modern applications for which they are not intended, and never were intended and for which they certainly are not appropriate under modern conditions. It is no exaggeration to say that in most cases before the courts, when an application is made for one of the prerogative writs a great deal of the case is occupied by argument as to whether these ancient remedies can be granted at all in the case that is before the court, while the substantive merits or the justice or the substance of the case is deferred as almost an appendage for later argument. The prerogative writs are now under active review by the Attorney-General's Department, and their reform will be a milestone in the establishment of a modern and practical method of reviewing administrative decisions in the courts. Accordingly, after the establishment of the Ombudsman and after the proper and detailed review of the prerogative writs there will be this threefold structure under which individuals' complaints against any governments can properly be investigated. Firstly there will be the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, secondly the Ombudsman, and thirdly the prerogative writs. 
There are 2 matters to which I wish to refer briefly, although both are important. First I wish to pay a tribute to the 2 distinguished committees chaired, respectively, by  Sir John  Kerr and  Sir Henry  Bland, whose research and recommendations led to the establishment of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, the Ombudsman and the review of the prerogative writs. Their recommendations will long be remembered as major reforms leading to the establishment of a practicable and workable system of supervision of government activities which can serve only to preserve and advance the rights and liberties of the individual citizen. The people of Australia owe far more to the work of these committees than they realise. 
I now address a few remarks to the substance of the Opposition's proposed amendments. Naturally the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  will be examining them and will put the Government's view on them at a later stage. It seems to me that they raise 2 matters of substance. Neither of the proposed amendments would rectify those matters of substance. The first proposed amendment provides that actions taken by delegates of a Minister will remain subject to the examination of the Ombudsman. There is no doubt that the exclusion from the powers of the Ombudsman of actions taken by a Minister may give rise to some difficulties. Individual members of this House will take up matters on behalf of their constituents. Those matters may be rejected by departments. Honourable members may then take the complaints to the Minister. The question arises whether, if the Minister also rejects the application, request or representation, the entire case is outside the examination of the Ombudsman. It could be argued that it is outside the examination of the Ombudsman for the reason that the final rejection by the Minister is an action taken by a Minister. Consequently it could be said that in such a case the Ombudsman has no jurisdiction. All I can say is that I think that is a problem about the precise limitations of the power of the Ombudsman. With respect, it seems to me that it is no clarification of the situation to say that actions taken by delegates of Ministers shall remain within the examination of the Ombudsman. All civil servants, all bureaucrats are to a greater or lesser extent delegates of a Minister. To include an amendment such as this proposed amendment would create the possibility of including within the jurisidiction of the Ombudsman almost every activity of government. I do not think that is the intention of the Opposition. I hope it is not. Certainly that intention is open on one construction of its first amendment. 
I turn now to the second proposed amendment. The honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  also said that when the Bill was before the House on the last occasion the coalition parties moved an amendment to the effect that both Houses of Parliament would have some direct say in the appointment of the Ombudsman. As I understand the position, the Opposition now seeks to move an amendment to the effect that the Ombudsman 'shall be a person whose appointment has been recommended by resolutions of both Houses of the Parliament'. I say 2 things about the suggestion. The first is that the then Attorney-General,  Mr Enderby,  rejected a proposal that the Houses of Parliament have a direct say in the appointment of the Ombudsman. On 20 August 1 975 he said: 
We suggest that the principle is quite wrong and that it would be quite unworkable. 
At a later stage he showed why the principle would be wrong and unworkable. He said: 
I suggest to the honourable member with the greatest respect that it would be asking too much of a Senate, an upper House divided as it is in certain times of a nation's history and often under the control- if I may say this- of an alliance of influences with Opposition and Independent senators holding views which are not reflected in the House of Representatives. The appointment of such a serious or important position as ombudsman could become a plaything of party politics and could be abused. I do not want to turn the debate on this matter into a party harangue. I think that would be quite wrong. I invite honourable gentlemen to reflect on how such a situation could be abused by party politics in the other place. I put to the honourable gentlemen: What would happen if the House of Representatives took a view about candidate A and the Senate took a view different from that and put forward candidate B? How would that difference of opinion be resolved according to the amendment which the Opposition has proposed? It would be a deadlock and we would not have an ombudsman. 
That is what the then Attorney-General said about the proposal that the Houses of Parliament have a direct say in the appointment of the Ombudsman. It seems very strange to me that the present Opposition can raise the argument which was argued against by the then AttorneyGeneral and which he destroyed, I would have thought, so persuasively. 
There is a further and final objection to the Opposition's proposed amendment, and that is that its proposal is not the proposal that was put by the present Government when it was in Opposition. The Labor Party's proposal is that the appointee would be someone who has been recommended by resolutions of both Houses of the Parliament. Presumably the Governor-General or the Executive Government could not proceed to deal with the appointment of an Ombudsman until the matter had been raised in one of the Houses of Parliament, the other House of Parliament having approved the appointment, and a recommendation on the appointment having gone to the Executive Government. In other words, the proposed amendment looks to a situation in which the actual appointment is initiated in one or other Houses of Parliament and in which that recommendation is sanctioned by both Houses. Our proposal, when we were in Opposition, was quite different. We let the Executive Government make the initial appointment, which was then subject to approval by both Houses of the Parliament. With respect, to me it is quite inconceivable that the Opposition could now put forward the proposal which it does that the recommendation for the appointment of the Ombudsman be by both Houses of the Parliament when, in substance, that was what it argued against so persuasively when it was in government. I conclude by repeating the substantial point which I made at the beginning, and that is that this proposal for a Commonwealth Ombudsman is a very forward step and one which can help to guarantee the rights and liberties of the individual citizen in the continuing confrontation that the citizen has these days with government in all its ramifications. 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether he has seen reports that Monash University does not wish him to return to the University to complete the task that he was prevented from performing on Monday. Has the University expressed that view to the Prime Minister? If so, what steps can be taken by the Government to prevent a situation in which an elected person, or a non-elected person for that matter, who is the target of minority interests is not free to move around the country without bearing the brunt of violent disturbances? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister seen the statement in the report of the  President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for the year ending 13 August 197S that in Hobart the Commission has no accommodation of its own and that it would be desirable if this were treated as a matter of urgency. 
Has the Government taken any action to provide the Commission with accommodation of its own in Hobart; if so, what action. 
Has the Government any plans to provide the Commission with accommodation of its own in Hobart; if so, what are they. 
-I direct a question to the Attorney-General. The Leader of the Opposition would be wise to listen to my question. I refer the Attorney-General to the answer he gave yesterday about documents relating to the Lockheed aircraft matter. I ask him whether in fact there was a remark made in the course of his answer that it would not wash in Japan. I ask: In view of the seriousness of the original allegations in this matter whether he, his Department, the Solicitor-General or any other person connected with his Department has been involved in a whitewash of this matter or whether we have now had a full and complete disclosure of the very important matters concerned with the original allegations? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that an Australian citizen, Miss Susan Day, presently employed by the Government of the People's Republic of China as a teacher, has applied to the Chinese authorities for permission to marry a Chinese citizen? So far as the Prime Minister knows, has that permission not yet been given? Will the Prime Minister be prepared to use his good offices to encourage the Chinese authorities to give permission for that marriage to take place? 
It is often said in Australia that we should have a bipartisan foreign policy. Very few people who take an active interest in foreign affairs would disagree with that proposition. The Government certainly made its contribution towards achieving a bipartisan foreign policy with the statement delivered yesterday by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock).  I say that because the Minister's statement was balanced and reasonable. It is, however, very unfortunate that in response to that balanced and reasonable assessment of foreign affairs, all we had from the Opposition, so far as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  is concerned anyway, was something over an hour of abuse. 
I should like to take some examples of the reaction that the Leader of the Opposition had to the Minister's speech because they seem to me to be very worthy of highlighting. The first and, I think, the most pernicious was the series of remarks made by the Leader of the Opposition with respect to our attitude to the problems of Africa. With respect, I would have thought that the Government and particularly a number of honourable members on the back bench of this side of the House had made it abundantly clear that we have no truck with the present situation in South Africa and with the present situation in Rhodesia. 
-It is kind of the Minister to refer to my article. But it is appropriate that he should do so because it is one example of what I am saying. They were views that were put forward some years ago. Apparently the Leader of the Opposition did not read the article. Apparently he does not listen to remarks made by the Minister, by me or by other people on this side of the House. What we have said is that we do not support apartheid in South Africa. We have said in the United Nations and in other places that we condemn that policy. We have said that we will have no military alliance or contact with South Africa. We have said that we do not support the Bantustans as separate and independent nation states. We have also said that we will not support or welcome to Australia sporting teams which are selected on a racial basis. All that the Leader of the Opposition can do on this subject is abuse honourable members on this side of the House for being Smith's friends. I assume by that expression he meant to convey that on this side of the House we are supporters of the present regime in South Africa and its policies and of the present regime in Rhodesia. I should like to speak on this point at length but I say very concisely that the Government and its supporters reject that allegation without any equivocation. 
Not only was the Leader of the Opposition given to abuse in his remarks yesterday but he was highly selective in some of the evidence that he sought to put forward for the views that he expressed. The most glaring example of that was his reliance on a speech made by the former Secretary of State,  Dr Kissinger.  Honourable members will recall that the remarks that were made on that occasion by the Leader of the Opposition were directed to the Indian Ocean issue. The general tenor of the argument put forward by the Leader of the Opposition, as I understood it, was that we had been deflated in our policy towards the Indian Ocean because of certain remarks made recently by  President  Carter. As I understood  President  Carter, he said that he and his Administration supported a bilateral arms limitation in the Indian Ocean. The Leader of the Opposition sought to say: 'Well, there you are. Your policy so far as the Indian Ocean is concerned is in ruins'. In any case, in effect he went on to say that the policy had never had any basis in the past anyway. He sought to draw some comfort for that proposition from remarks made by the former Secretary of State,  Dr Kissinger.  He relied on a statement from a speech made by  Dr Kissinger  known as the Alastair Buchan Memorial Lecture, which was delivered in London on 25 June last year. He said that  Dr Kissinger  had made this statement: its - 
That is, the Soviet Union's-  naval power ... is far weaker than combined Allied naval strength in terms of tonnage, firepower, range, access to the sea, experience and seamanship. 
Always being very doubtful about the sources used by the Leader of the Opposition, I took the trouble to extract  Dr Kissinger's  speech on that occasion. I found, I must say not altogether to my surprise, that  Dr Kissinger  did not say what the Leader of the Opposition quoted. He used those words which were used by the Leader of the Opposition, but he also used additional words which were left out by the Leader of the Opposition without any indication that he was leaving out part of the speech. Let me read what  Dr Kissinger  said. He said: 
Its naval power, while a growing and serious problem, is far weaker than combined Allied naval strength in terms of tonnage, fire power, range, access to the sea, experience and seamanship. 
So the Leader of the Opposition omitted a reference in  Dr Kissinger's  speech to the view that  Dr Kissinger  presumably held that Soviet naval power was increasing- not only that it was increasing but that it was posing a serious problem. Let us listen to what  Dr Kissinger  also said on that occasion. He said: 
Beneath the nuclear umbrella, the temptation to probe with regional forces or proxy wars increases. The steady growth of Soviet conventional military and naval power and its expanding global reach cannot be ignored. 
The Leader of the Opposition omitted that.  Dr Kissinger  also said: 
And we must conduct a prudent and forceful foreign policy that is prepared to use our strength to block expansionism. 
It would seem to me, with respect, that if one puts a fair interpretation on  Dr Kissinger's  speech one would come to the conclusion that he was drawing attention to the potential problems to which the present Australian Government is drawing attention- that is to say,  Dr Kissinger  and we both draw attention to the fact that there is a substantial Soviet naval presence in the Indian Ocean and that not only is it a substantial presence but that it is increasing. He and we both draw attention to the fact that not only is that power increasing but that it poses problems so far as the strategic balance of the region is concerned. As I said at the outset of these remarks on this part of the issue, all that  President  Carter has said is that he wants a bilateral arms limitation in the region. So do we want a bilateral arms limitation in the region. As I understand it, we have always said that. We have also said that we want that guaranteed by the big powers. We want the military presence to be as small as possible. We want it to be balanced. We want to see a situation in which, if there is a limitation on military presence in the region, it is guaranteed by the big powers. Until it is guaranteed, Australia must have regard to its own defence situation. We must ensure that we have proper defence installations and proper military associations and connections with our allies to ensure the security of Australia. 
There are a number of other areas- in fact, many- in the Minister's speech to which I would like to address some remarks. Time makes that difficult to do. May I content myself by referring to some of them. The Minister rightly drew attention to the importance of the United Nations and to the importance of Australia having a proper and substantial working relationship with and role in the United Nations. We cannot be too sanguine in our hope that the United Nations will solve all international problems, because the United Nations and any other organisation will not be able to solve all international problems. The advantage of the United Nations is that it brings countries together. It keeps them talking, and in the course of debating serious international problems usually some compromise can be reached. As the House knows, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and I had the privilege last year of being the 2 parliamentary members of our delegation to the United Nations. It was an honour to be travelling in the company of a former Minister who was widely known and held in very high regard in international circles. One of the intriguing features of the honourable member for Hindmarsh, as far as some overseas people were concerned, was that here was a former Minister who had clearly had some difficulties with a former Prime Minister. They were very concerned to see what sort of man the honourable member for Hindmarsh was. 
-Yes. It seems to be the season for analysing the issue of personalities on the other side of the House. The interesting thing was that foreign observers came to the conclusion, as I think most of us have, that the honourable member for Hindmarsh had made a substantial contribution to his country. He had been balanced, restrained and sensible in most of the things he had done. Perhaps inquiries should be directed at the Leader of the Opposition to see why he had the problems that he had with the honourable member for Hindmarsh. Perhaps that is one of the reasons that the Labor Party is looking to get rid its present Leader. 
I depart from the subject. To return to it, no one who goes to the United Nations can come away with any view, I would have thought, other than that the United Nations serves a very useful purpose. It cannot be expected to solve all international problems, but it is a very useful venue for debate and discussion and for providing a vehicle by which compromise can be reached. There is one aspect of our relationship with the United Nations to which I would draw attention. We are a member of a group called WEOGWestern European and Other Group. We are one of the others. I would like to see the Government investigate the possibility of our forming a separate group within the United Nations. Australia is a leader in this part of the world. We are widely respected by nations in South East Asia and in the Pacific. We could be a leader of that group at the United Nations. I hope therefore that the Government will investigate the possibility of our having a closer working and voting relationship with the nations of South East Asia and the Pacific so far as our activity in the United Nations is concerned. 
The Minister has reminded me that we have an association with those countries. He referred to that in his speech. However, it would seem to me that there is perhaps scope for an even closer and even more formalised relationship with those countries. 
Attention should be drawn to the situation in respect of refugees. Australia has taken many refugees from the world's trouble spots. These days Australia seems to be one of the very few countries to which people apparently want to come rather than leave. I emphasise this because, although the Government has done a great deal to receive refugees, I believe it should do more. The Minister has drawn attention to the fact that his colleague the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  will be making a statement on this matter. I will wait for that with interest. We have a enormous and an overwhelming humanitarian responsibility to people who are being rooted out of their own countries, cast upon the seas, almost literally in many cases. I hope we can translate that very deep responsibility into positive action. There are many subjects on which I would like to speak in this debate, but time makes that impossible. Finally, I congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs for what I described before as a very responsible and substantial contribution to foreign affairs discussion in Australia. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I ask whether he is aware that there is now a very long delay in the hearing of cases in the Family Court- a matter which has been made the subject of remarks by  His  Honour,  Mr Justice  Emery, and a number of members of the profession who are concerned about the delay? Is the Minister concerned about the delay, particularly in the hearing of defended cases in Melbourne, so much so that the view has been expressed that some of these cases may never be heard? Will he do his best to alleviate that delay by the appointment of new judges or by the introduction of other procedures which may result in speeding up the procedures for the hearing of these cases? 

 - Mr Speaker, on the point of order, the question asked by the honourable member relates to the Australian Legal Aid Office. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
1 ) Which of the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration have been implemented. 
What administrative steps have been taken to implement those recommendations. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 March 1977. 
1 ) At which airports in Australia does Avis Rent-A-Car System Pty Ltd have a concession to operate within airport terminal buildings. 
With respect to each such concession to which the company is presently entitled 
on what date did the company acquire the concession; 
b ) on what date will the concession expire and 
what are the terms and conditions of each concession. 
3 ) What payments is the company obliged to make to the Commonwealth under the terms of each concession to which it is presently entitled. 
What procedure will be adopted for the renewal of each concession on its expiration. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
1 ) Has any company, firm or person other than Avis Rent -A-Car System Pty Ltd ever applied to the Commonwealth or a Department or agency of the Commonwealth for a concession to operate as a motor vehicle hiring business within airport terminal buildings. 
If so, 
what companies, firms or persons have made the application. 
b) on what dates were the applications made, 
c ) to whom were the applications made, 
in relation to which airports were the applications made, 
what was the outcome of each application, and 
with respect of each application that was refused, on what grounds was the application made. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 March 1977 : 
Are companies, businesses or persons other than Avis Rent-A-Car System Pty Ltd permitted to operate motor vehicle hiring businesses in terminal buildings at airports in Australia; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 22 March 1 977: 
1 ) What is the entire complement of officers employed in his Department. 
How many officers of each Division of the Commonwealth Public Service are presently employed in his Department? 
What salaries are paid to officers in each of these Divisions? 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
1 ) What projects is his Department presently engaged upon which are directed towards increasing productivity. 
How are increases in productivity measured. 
Has productivity in Australia increased since the establishment of his Department: if so by what measure. 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to a recent article in the  New Statesman  magazine, which he may read, discussing the role of Parliament and, amongst other things, opposition within Parliament? I ask the Prime Minister whether he is satisfied with the opposition within the community to his Government's policies; whether he would like to see that opposition strengthened or coming from some other quarter, or whether he can think of any other way in which opposition, as an important part of the process, can be improved? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 March 1976: 
1 ) Does the Australian Broadcasting Commission have a panel of speakers for its radio program  Notes on the News. 
) If so, what are the names of the persons who presently comprise that panel. 
What are the names of the persons who have been added to or deleted from the panel since 30 June 1976. 
What fee is normally paid to persons who contribute to the program. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 March 1976: 
Does the Australian Broadcasting Commission have a panel of speakers Tor its radio program  News Commentary. 
) If so, what are the names of the persons who presently comprise that panel. 
What are the names of the persons who have been added to or deleted from the panel since 30 June 1 976. 
What fee is normally paid to persons who contribute to the program. 
-In support of the motion I wish to make a few brief remarks with respect to the report of the 2 parliamentary advisers that is attached to the report of the delegation as an appendix. The House may be wondering why there is a separate report of the parliamentary advisers as part of the delegation's report. The reason why a separate report has been appended is set out in the first paragraph of the report. I shall take a brief moment to read it out, as it makes it plain why the separate report has been appended. It states: 
The purpose of this report is to acquaint members of both Houses of our experience as the parliamentary advisers to Australia's delegation to the General Assembly of the United Nations. We feel that we have an obligation to report to the Parliament and also to make some suggestions which we believe will improve the quality of parliamentary representation on the delegation in the future. 
There are 2 reasons why the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and I felt that there should be a separate report from the 2 parliamentary representatives. Firstly, we felt that we had an obligation to report to the Parliament. Secondly, we felt that out remarks could possibly improve the quality of parliamentary representation in the future. 
Those honourable members who read the report- I commend it to all honourable memberswill see that it covers a number of matters. It covers, firstly, the number of parliamentary advisers and suggests that the membership of the delegation should be increased. The second matter referred to is the value of parliamentary representation on the delegation. The view is expressed there by both of us that the presence of members of Parliament on the delegation cannot but improve the quality of the representation that Australia has in the United Nations. The next matter that is dealt with is the preparation that should be undertaken by parliamentary members of the delegation before they proceed to New York. We have put forward the view that further preparations should be made so that parliamentary members of the delegation may prepare themselves properly for the General Assembly and better acquit themselves while they are in New York. 
There is also a paragraph in the report dealing with our work with the delegation. The point is made in that respect that both the honourable member for Hindmarsh and I took, we would hope, a fairly active part in the work of the delegation. We venture to express the view that the contributions we made were valuable. The report also makes some remarks about the operations of the mission in New York to which I will come back at a later stage. We make some general remarks also on the value of the United Nations itself and on the facilities which are available for members of Parliament who are members of the delegation. As the report says, we raised that matter with some trepidation because inevitably when the issue of facilities for members of Parliament is raised in any context the accusation, of course, is made that members of Parliament are interested only in their own comfort, welfare or convenience. But the view we expressed was that if members of Parliament are to be part of our delegation to the United Nations and if members are to perform their functions properly, they must be properly equipped and facilities must be provided to enable them properly to carry out their functions. We suggest in that part of the report a number of specific matters that should be attended to before the next delegation proceeds to New York. 
The conclusion to the report is probably the most important part. I take leave for a moment to read out that part of the section of the report which states: 
We believe it is of great importance that when Australia 's foreign policy is being discussed in public, the people, through their elected representatives, should be present and should participate. It is for that reason that we have Parliamentary Advisers as members of our Delegation to the United Nations. It is for the same reason that we believe strongly that there should be parliamentary representatives at all major international conferences in which Australia takes pan. The most obvious one is the Law of the Sea Conference, but there are several others. 
The report goes on to say: 
The public has the right to be represented at such conferences and to make its own contribution. The only practical way in which this can be done is for Members of Parliament to be members of our delegations to those conferences. 
We recommend that the Parliament pursues this proposal with vigour. It would considerably enhance the standing of the Parliament and improve the quality of Australia's representation at these significant international meetings. 
They are the remarks that we make at the conclusion to our report and I want to emphasise them here. They relate to a tremendously important matter at a time when the argument is being advanced that Parliament is becoming increasingly irrelevant and when it is said that important matters facing this country are being determined outside and not within the Parliament, that members of Parliament should have an active part to play in the determination of the very vital issues which are facing this country. Clearly this is so in respect of domestic matters. We believe it is equally so in foreign and defence matters which of course cannot be determined solely by the Parliament because they necessarily involve negotiations with the representatives of other countries; they necessarily involve participation in international conferences. What can be done is that members of Parliament, who represent the people, can actively participate in those conferences and express a parliamentary view or, if you like, a public view channelled through them. 
I have mentioned one case where we think participation by members of Parliament is particularly important, and that is in respect of conferences on the law of the sea. However, there are others which are equally as important. I venture to suggest that members of Parliament probably should have been members of Australian delegations to meetings of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. Future UNCTAD conferences should include parliamentary representation. There are many other international conferences which are taking place and probably more which will take place in the future which are concerned with issues which are of vital and tremendous importance to Australia. The issues in the whole energy area, whether they be uranium or other aspects of energy, of course are probably the most important that this country will face this century. Those matters are of such overwhelming importance that we venture to suggest that Parliament is falling down on its job if it does not give urgent consideration to proper and full parliamentary representation on the Australian delegations that go to these international conferences. We will be failing in our functions if we do not address our minds to that important matter. 
There is another particular matter to which I would like to make some brief reference; namely that matter set out in paragraph 6 of our joint report under the heading 'The Operation of the Mission'. The problem arises, of course, from the fact that the United Nations is in New York and our Government is here. As a result the question arises: How does the Government convey its decisions to our delegation in New York? I happen to hold the view firmly that all decisions that are made by this Government and all decisions that are conveyed through the United Nations to the world are decisions which should be made here in Canberra. The view, of course, is expressed by some that the delegation is in New York and therefore is on the spot. Consequently, so it is argued, it is more in tune with what is going on in New York and within the international community and as a result, so it is said, the delegation in New York is more able than are people in Canberra to make decisions as to what Australia's position should be. I do not subscribe to that view. I do not wish to make any aspertions against the very highly qualified members of the delegation that we have had in New York and which no doubt we will have in the future. But I emphasise that membership of the delegation will change. Also, many members of the delegation in New York are officers who, although of course highly qualified, nevertheless have limited experience in terms of time. Consequently I feel that it is very important that issues are referred back to Canberra so that the government can give full and proper consideration to them before it makes a decision as to what our position will be in New York and before we translate that decision into action in the form of a vote in New York. 
Finally, although not the least important, I wish to pay particular respect and regard to the honourable member for Hindmarsh who was, of course, a pleasant travelling companion and a very valuable member of the delegation. The honourable member spoke a number of times in New York and impressed delegations from other countries and the other significant international figures who were present at the time. In fact they were so impressed by the honourable member that they must have asked themselves a few questions about his Leader because there is no doubt as to the quality of the representation which the Australian Labor Party sent to New York in the form of the honourable member. 
Also I would like to reiterate the remarks we made in the report by way of acknowledgement and thanks to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  for his excellent leadership of the delegation and for the high quality of the speech which he delivered to the General Assembly, it being one of the comparatively few interesting speeches delivered in the General Assembly, and for the hospitality he extended to us on a number of occasions. As a result of this hospitality we were given the opportunity to meet a number of significant leaders of the international community whom the Minister of course already knew but whom we did not know. Also, they were given the opportunity to meet us and to listen to some of the interesting views which the honourable member for Hindmarsh had put forward on the structure of the economies of western societies which they found educational and interesting, even if they were not the views which they would necessarily accept. 
Although all honourable members are not in the chamber at the moment I commend the report of the parliamentary advisers to honourable members. I urge them to read and consider what we have said because we feel that not only does the report raise some interesting issues about the United Nations and the Parliamentary representation at the United Nations but also it raises some very important issues as to just exactly what is the role of Parliament and members of Parliament in the conduct of international affairs in this country. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
1 ) What are the purposes for which the Department of Productivity was established. 
What are the present responsibilities of that Department 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
1 ) What Proclamations have been made under subsection 2 (2 ) of the  Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment  /fr/ 1976. 
) Where is each Proclamation to be found. 
3 ) What dates were fixed by each Proclamation. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
Which organisations have consulted with the Industrial Registrar pursuant to sub-section 133 (4D) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
On what date or dates did each of these organisations consult with the Industrial Registrar. 
Has the Industrial Registrar made any determinations of alterations to the rules of any organisations pursuant to sub-section 133 (4D) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 
If so, on what date or dates did the Industrial Registrar make the determinations and what was the substance of each. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
How many applications to the Industrial Registrar have been made pursuant to sub-section 133aa(3) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act.. 
) On what date was each application made. 
3) By what organisation was each application made. 
What decision was made by the Industrial Registrar on each application. 
Have any organisations conducted an election or ballot for any office since the date upon which the Industrial Registrar made his decision with respect to each application; if so, what organisations, and for what offices. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Was a conference held recently in Moscow relating to military restraint in the Indian Ocean? Who took part in that conference and what was the outcome of it? Were there any implications for Australia arising from that conference and, if so, what were they? What has Australia done about making its views known on that subject? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
How many secret postal ballots of the type referred to in sub-section 133AA( 1 ) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act have been conducted since 9 June 1976. 
On what date was each ballot conducted. 
For election to what office within what organisation was each ballot conducted. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
1 ) How many elections have been conducted pursuant to the regulations referred to in sub-section 133AA(2) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act since 9 June 1976. 
On what date was each such election conducted. 
For election to what office within what organisation was each such election conducted. 
If the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  had shown one ounce of concern for the social and economic consequences of unemployment, which he has been talking about for the last 15 minutes, and if he had suggested one means by which some of these problems could be rectified we would have supported the matter of public importance with enthusiasm. Indeed it looked to me when I read the daily program that this was to be something of a bipartisan suggestion to deal with some of these great social problems. But it seems that all we are faced with is yet another debate about the causes of unemployment- who caused it, Liberal, Labor or whatever? What a turgid, dull experience this is going to be once again. If we are going to have an argument about unemployment and about the causes of unemployment then let us have it. 
I put it to the House that it is abundantly clear that the increases in unemployment started to set in in this country in the three years of the Australian Labor Party's rule. I promise not to bore the House with statistics, as the honourable member for Gellibrand did, but there is one simple statistic which should put an end to the whole of this argument. I ask the honourable member for Gellibrand and other honourable members supporting him to deny it if it is not true. When we left office at the end of 1972 the economy of this country was in a very healthy state. There were 136,000 people unemployed. When the Labor Party left office there were 328,000 people unemployed in this country. Unemployment had more than doubled as a result of the economic policies that that party adopted when it was in power. When one looks at a basis statistic such as that, one sees what a completely meretricious matter of public importance this one is. Unemployment started its upward movement during those three years and it is very clear that the wholesale damage done to the economy during those three years has been a major contributing factor to the continuous unemployment we have had. 
I put it to honourable members that the economic policies that were adopted during that time were almost calculated policies which certainly resulted in substantial unemployment during that period. We have only to look at some of the policies. We could talk of them for hours but let us just look at one or two. There was the 25 per cent tariff cut which was brought in with, I would think, an almost complete indifference to its consequences for the individuals concerned. It was from that time until the present that our industries such as the clothing, textiles, plastic and rubber industries and many others started their decline. It was from the time of the 25 per cent tariff cut that the rot started to set in. Quite apart from the economic damage caused by that decision and quite apart from the wholesale assault on those industries, what concerns me far more than all of them is the indifference that was shown on that occasion to the individual men and women in those industries. What was the attitude of the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who was the responsible Minister at that stage?  His  attitude and the Government's attitude were that these people could be bought off, that all that had to be done was to establish yet another government scheme, to give it a fancy name such as Structural Adjustment Assistance, to pour in millions of dollars if they could be found and to buy off those exemployees. What a callous, indifferent and heartless attitude that was towards the ordinary men and women working in those industries whom the Labor Party continually pretends that it represents. 
That is just one of the economic decisions made by the Labor Party at that time which led to the substantial increases in unemployment during Labor's term of office. I hasten to add, in case the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  says this when he speaks, that unemployment was not solely the result of the Labor Government. It must take a major share of blame for it, but it is not solely Labor's responsibility. Certainly other forces are at work in the society which also lead to unemployment, and it is wise that we should recognise them. The first of them is the wage structure which exists in this country. I put it as a simple basic proposition that, because of -the wage structure existing in this country, many industries have priced themselves out of world markets. As they have priced themselves out of world markets, the employees have priced themselves out of jobs. It is all very well for the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, under the system that we have now, to fix wages and salaries which it says are going to apply in the market place. It is a completely different situation when employers in the market place have to make a decision whether they can employ people at the wage and salary rates which are fixed by the Arbitration Commission. Until we grapple with the problem Australia will continue to be faced with unemployment and will continue to price itself out of world markets, and the economy will not revive. 
Our Minister for Special Trade Negotiations  (Mr Howard)  is beating his way around Europe and trying to find new markets for some of our manufactured goods and our primary products. No doubt this will be a successful enterprise. But the fact remains that while the major cost increases in our manufactured goods- wage and salary increases-remain and continue, the Minister is engaged upon a herculean task and he will not meet with unqualified success. I want to put forward the suggestion- I hope that it is a helpful suggestion and something that the Opposition may like to consider- that we should be looking at the structure of the Arbitration Commission. Quite apart from the fact that there are State wage tribunals, it is the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that sets the pace. Its function is to solve industrial disputes which come before it, and most of those disputes concern applications for wage increases. 
I suggest that we should be looking at a restructuring of the Arbitration Commission to widen its functions. We cannot continue the present situation where all that exists is a fixation of wages and salaries and then it is left to the market place to employ or, as is often the case, not to employ individuals subject to those wages and salaries, for the simple reason that employers cannot afford to employ people at those wages and salaries which are fixed by the Commission. I would like to see a situation whereby on the Commission as it is constituted there are individuals who are aware of the market consequences of decisions made by the Arbitration Commission. That is the first thing. There should be individuals on the Commission who because of their experience are able to contribute something to this very vexed decision as to whether employers will be able to employ and as to whether industries will be able to survive at the wage and salary rates fixed by the Arbitration Commission. 
We have done something like this with the Industries Assistance Commission, so it is not a novel idea. I would like to see it applied in the Arbitration Commission also so that we do not have this absurd division between the Arbitration Commission, on the one hand, on some remote cloud, fixing what it thinks is appropriate as wage and salary levels and, on the other hand, the real world of industry and commerce which has to translate those decisions into practice and which has to face the real decision of whether industry and commerce can afford to employ people at the wages and salaries which are fixed by the Commission. Therefore I hope that we can look at the question of restructuring the Arbitration Commission. 
There is another area which concerns me very much and it is something for which again I say the Opposition is not primarily responsible. Indeed the Opposition may have no responsibility for it at all except that that party has been in government and was unable then to solve the problem that I am about to mention. It is this: I venture to suggest that there is something wrong with our education system when so many people leave the system and are, to put it bluntly, unemployable. There are people who even after several years of secondary education are barely literate. They have no conception of how to apply for jobs. They have almost no initiative and almost no conception of how to go about applying for a job and how to present themselve to a prospective employer. 
One of the notable improvements which the present Government has made to this is the introduction of the Community Youth Support scheme. It at least makes an effort to get young people into a position where they have something to offer the employers. They know how to apply for a job and how to present themselves for a job. That is a step in the right direction but it is nowhere near a solution to the whole problem. 
What is wrong with our education system when year after year we produce people who are virtually unemployable or who, if they do obtain jobs, obtain jobs in fields which are quite unsatisfying to them? I see that the Commonwealth has an inquiry investigating this matter. I think  Mr Justice  Williams is responsible for this investigation. It is extraordinary that we should be investigating this matter at such a late stage. Why has no previous government embarked upon such an exercise when it is so obvious that the education system we have is not one which produces individuals who are able to find satisfying, fruitful and productive work in the economy? 
The honourable member for Gellibrand said in support of the subject of this matter of public importance that the Government is doing nothing about the economic and social consequences. I have already mentioned the Community Youth Support scheme, which is a very substantial improvement along the lines of rectifying unemployment and of improving the opportunities available to the unemployed to find employment. If the honourable member would like to read that part of the Budget Speech which is set out on page SO of  Hansard  he will see more details of what the Government is doing with respect to retraining schemes. He will obtain also from other sources details of the education program for unemployed youth. If he looks elsewhere he will see details of the Special Youth Employment Training program. 
He should know also about the Commonwealth Rebate Apprenticeship Full-time Training scheme and about the improvements which the Government has made to the National Employment and Training scheme. No doubt when that scheme was first thought up it was a very desirable initiative, but at that stage when I was not in this House but was an ordinary member of the community it seemed to me that a large number of people at public expense were learning macrame work, attending pottery classes and social welfare courses and a few other things which no doubt in an ideal society might be desirable things for them to pursue. Indeed, as a result of the NEAT scheme as it operated then there is one thing that we can be sure about, that is, that this country will never be short of social workers. 
I suggest that what the present Government has done is an improvement. What it has done has been to provide on the job training in the real world of commerce and industry for individuals who qualify under the NEAT scheme. Not only is it a better system because it provides on the job training, but it is a scheme which now provides coverage to many many thousands more people than previously were eligible to be covered. That is an improvement. I think it represents a very serious and genuine attempt by the Government to take up some of the slack in unemployment. 
Apart from all that we come back to the basic point, which is that the rate of unemployment will start to go down when the economy starts to improve and continues the momentum which has already been achieved since the present Government embarked on its economic policies. When the economy has improved there will be no problem so far as unemployment is concerned. When we revitalise the private sector, which still after all the assaults to which it has been subjected employs three out of four people in Australia, then there will be more employment opportunities for the people. 
We will improve the economy of this country by continuing with the economic policies of the present Government and not by adopting the over-idealistic proposals to spend more government money which still come from the Labor Party. That is the standard tedious suggestion that comes forward. Nothing constructive other than that comes forward from the Labor Party; indeed, I very much regret to say that nothing constructive has come out of this discussion on this matter of public importance which has been raised by the honourable member for Gellibrand. 
-Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs noticed the recent and increasing interest in matters relating to the Antarctic territory, particularly as far as Australian jurisdiction and conservation matters are concerned? Was Australia 's position on these or any other matters related to the Antarctic recently clarified at the meeting of parties to the Antarctic Treaty in London? 
There is no doubt about the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  and the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  In this particular matter they both seem to be quite convinced pessimists. They seem convinced even at this stage that the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations  (Mr Howard)  will be unsuccessful in his mission. With respect, I should have thought that what the Opposition should be doing is to give credit to the Government on this particular matter because credit is certainly due. The Opposition asks why a special Minister has been appointed. I should have thought it was clear that the appointment of a special Minister to deal with this matter of trade negotiations with Europe is a recognition of the overwhelming importance that the Government places on achieving a more rational and sensible trade relationship with Europe. At the same time, of course, the previous two Opposition speakers certainly are quite right when they say that there are enormous trade opportunities for us in Asia. That is certainly the other important area at which we should be looking to expand our trade. I return to the first point to remind the honourable member for Adelaide again that he should not be too pessimistic about the Minister's exercise in Europe. The Government believes he will be successful and certainly if it does nothing more, his trip to Europe will show the Europeans that we are serious in the dealings that we are having with them on their trade barriers. 
I want to address some brief remarks on the estimates for the Department of Overseas Trade. It is in this particular area that there are two transactions to which I think attention should be given which would probably be described in the popular Press these days as rip-offs. Before I give the Committee an outline of both these transactions I should say that they both have three deleterious consequences. In the first place they will result in importers of goods into Australia paying out far more than they need, which undoubtedly increases the cost to importers of the goods that they import. What flows from that, of course, is that they naturally charge more on the resale of their goods if they are importers engaging in the resale of goods. The second unfortunate consequence of both these transactions that I intend to outline is that they both increase the quantity of money flowing out of the country and, hence, our invisibles, which I gather now are at about $3 billion a year. The third consequenceI suppose this is really why I raise the matter- is the fact that importers of goods into Australia are paying more than they need on the transactions in which they are engaged, which is, of course, wrong. It is wrong that they should be doing that without being aware of it. 
What are these two transactions? The first comes from a situation where an overseas forwarding agent is responsible for several shipments of goods from overseas to Australia, all of which are conveyed in one container. This matter is concerned solely with container shipping. On the carriage of these goods charges are levied by the shipping company. The forwarding agent pays those charges in advance. He pays for freight and he pays the wharfage dues that are charged in Australia but which, are in fact, paid overseas. Both of those amounts eventually are paid by the Australian importer. The forwarding agent also pays charges for stacking and unpacking the container once it arrives in Australia. Likewise, that charge also is paid in Australia and is borne by the importer of the goods. They are three areas of payment that are borne by the importer in this particular transaction and which are paid by the overseas forwarding agent. 
The goods arrive in Australia and the forwarding agent's own representative in Australia, after the container is broken up, makes out a separate account which is sent to each of the individual consignees who own parts of the cargo. The individual consignee is not given a detailed composite account of the total amount of charges associated with that container and which are paid out by the forwarding agent for the whole container load. The importer is given only those charges which are said to apply to his own consignment. He is not given the cost of the entire container load. He is merely given a bill relating to his own customs clearing charges and freight. No doubt the forwarding agent's justification for this is that he is not obliged to reveal to the consignee the details of the charges for the whole of the container when the consignee is importing only part of the contents of that container. That may be the justification but it is also the avenue for the forwarding agent to make his illicit gainbecause that is what it is- in this transaction. 
For example, the total charges for a particular container may be $1,000. The contents of the container are in five separate parcels for five individual consignees. One would expect that each of the consignees would pay $200 towards the total charges for the container. But, they are each charged $1,000. The overseas forwarding agent, having paid out a disbursement of $1,000 is reimbursed $5,000 and makes a profit of $4,000 under the guise of merely being reimbursed what he has paid out. Of course, none of the five individual consignees know the total charges on the whole container. All the individual consignee knows is that he has a bill from the forwarding agent for $ 1 ,000 and that if he does not pay he will not be able to take delivery of his goods. Naturally he must pass this charge on and this increases the price of the goods. It should be said clearly that this is the doing of the overseas forwarding agent and its branch in Australia or its Australian agent. It is not the doing or the responsibility of the shipping line itself. 
The second device to which I want to refer relates particularly to the conference shipping line. The procedure starts again with the foreign forwarding agent shipping the goods to Australia either in a container or as loose cargo carried on a ship owned by a company which is a member of the conference line. The shipping lines in the conference charge basic freight rates, bunkering charges, currency adjustments and other charges, including, most importantly, because this is where the whole problem springs from, a 10 per cent extra surcharge called a primage surcharge. That is calculated at 10 per cent of the freight charge. The majority of importers buy freight on board conditions, and all of the charges that I have mentioned, including the 10 per cent primage surcharge, are paid from Australia by the importer. The charges are collected by the agent of the shipping lines in Australia. After the goods have arrived an account for the charges is sent by the agent to the consignee or the agent of the importer, and that includes the 10 per cent additional freight charge which has been imposed. 
The vice arises in these circumstances in that six months after the goods arrive in Australia the overseas forwarding agent is entitled to ask for a rebate of that 10 per cent primage charge from the shipping line. He will be entitled to that rebate, which is called at that stage a loyalty rebate, if in fact the ship that has been used for the conveyance of the goods is owned by a shipping line which is a member of the conference line. Of course, when that happens, the refund is paid to the forwarding agent and not to the importer of the goods. One would have thought, of course, that once that transaction was completed the 10 per cent additional charge which has been paid would be repaid to the importer because it came from his pocket in the first place. But again, surprise, surprise! No, the 10 per cent is not refunded; the 10 per cent remains in the pocket of the overseas forwarding agent who receives, as well as his normal commission and his normal profit, what amounts in fact to an additional 10 per cent illegal profit. 
That is a situation which I can summarise briefly by saying that it is outrageous. If the facts which I have recounted to the Committee this afternoon are facts which are denied by those involved in this matter, no doubt they will come forward and deny them. They are facts that have been brought to my notice, and I think they deserve an airing. As far as I am concerned, they are factual matters which will remain factual matters until they are denied. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Ian Robinson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is difficult to know where to start replying to the speech of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  because in the half hour tirade that he launched against the Government for introducing the legislation he did not seem to have time to address any remarks to the provisions of the Bill. One would have thought that the purpose of a parliamentary debate was to address remarks to the provisions of the Bill before the Parliament. 
It is appropriate to state, as a general proposition, before looking at some of the provisions of the Bill, that is is certainly time for some stiffening up of the industrial relations legislation in this country. Not only is it so because of the current situation with which we are faced in Victoria; not only is it so because of the specific industrial disputes that are presently troubling the country and which have troubled the country for the last few months in particular; not only is it so because of the damage done to individual citizens of this country, whether they are employees or in business- not only is it so for those reasons, but it is appropriate that we should now be looking at some very basic principles of industrial relations in Australia. It is time that some basic principles are laid down for this system. This Bill deserves the support of the Parliament because it goes some distance towards laying down some of those basic principles. 
Let us look at some of them. The first principle is this: There is in Australia a structure set up for the resolution of industrial disputes. It is a structure in which industrial disputes can be settled. By and large, it is a good and fair system. If there is any imbalance in the system as it operates in Australia today, it certainly operates in favour of unions and employees. The system can certainly not accurately be described as one which benefits employers. The important point about this principle is that organisations must work within the system. If they will not work within the system voluntarily they must be obliged to work within the system. They cannot use the system when it suits them, when their advantage will be served by using the system, and opt out of it and use direct action to achieve their ends when that method suits them. If there is to be a system for the resolution of industrial disputes- as I have said, there is a system which is a good and working system, one which is fair to both sides- both sides should work within that system. If they will not it is the responsibility of the Government to oblige them to do so. 
Let me illustrate that proposition by citing a specific case which arose recently in the building industry. I suppose I should declare my interest in this matter. I appeared in the case when it was before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. What happened was that the Builders Labourers Federation was on the warpath again. A 1.9 per cent increase had been awarded in the national wage case. The Federation said to the Commission: 'We work within the system. We are a registered organisation. We are subject to the awards of the Commission. We are entitled to the 1.9 per cent increase because we work within the system'. At the same time that the Federation was doing that, of course, it had on foot a log of claims demanding an extra $35 a week in wages, a 35-hour week, and numerous other claims which were contained in that log. The Federation said so far as that log is concerned: 'We will not work within the system to get our demands under that log; we will work outside the system. We want the 1.9 per cent which the Full Bench has awarded in the national wage case. Because we work within the system we are entitled to that. With respect to our other log which contains the major claims, we are entitled to have strikes, we are entitled to have bans and limitations, we are entitled to use any means we want to achieve those demands outside the system'. We cannot tolerate a system that operates in that way. 
If organisations make demands within the arbitration system, if they get the benefits from operating within that system, they should be obliged to process all their claims within that system. Until they proceed to do that there will continue to be industrial disputation in Australia. This applies, I should say, equally to employer organisations as it does to unions. No doubt we will be hearing later from the other side that this legislation is directed against the unions. That allegation is quite without any foundation whatsoever. This legislation applies equally to employer organisations as it does to unions. Both operate within the system. Both are subject to the pains and penalties, if that is how they are described, which are imposed under the legislation. That is the first principle, namely, that there is a system operating within Australia and that organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act must and should process thenclaims within that system. 
The second principle is that unions in Australia I am talking now specifically about unions and not employer organisations- are in a very privileged position. They obtain that privileged position by virtue of their registration under the Act. That system of registration gives unions a large number of very considerable advantages. It is sometimes not realised just how extensive those advantages are. The unions have the advantage, for instance, under section 47 of the Act of obtaining preference for their members. What does that mean? It means, to take one example, if there are two employees, one who is a member of a union and one who is not, the one who is a member must be given preference in the case of employment, in the case of termination and in the case of any other provisions under the award in which a decision must be made as to who will benefit. It means that if a competent, willing, devoted employee who is prepared to work for wages fixed properly under the system, fixed properly according to arbitration, is not a member of a union, he suffers. The person who gets the advantage, the person who gets the benefit, the person who gets the preference, as it is called under the Act, is the member of a union whether he is competent, whether he is able or whether he meets the requirements of the employer. Despite any other criteria, he gets the benefit. That is one enormous advantage to unions which are registered under the Act. They obtain the benefits of the preference clause for which they are entitled to apply under the Act. 
It is likewise not realised that section 142 A of the Act can give to one union the exclusive rights of representation in industrial matters in a particular industry or part of an industry. That means that not only is that union entitled to operate within that industry but that no other union is entitled to operate within that industry. That is an enormous and very valuable advantage to unions which are registered under the Act. The important point about this principle is that it must be given balance. Hence, if advantages of these sorts are to be given to unions which apply for preference or which obtain this exclusive right of representation, that system must operate in such a way that those who are not members of the organisation are not prejudiced. It must also be a system which will operate so that those who are members of the organisation are not prejudiced. 
It is for those reasons that the conscientious objector provisions which are in the legislation and which are widened by this Bill are so desirable. I gather from the honourable member for Gellibrand that there is opposition in the House to this principle. If there is union opposition to these provisions relating to conscientious objectors, if there is opposition coming from the Labor Party or from the trade union movement, I suggest that that opposition comes because what they want is universal domination. They do not want people to be joining unions because the union provides a benefit, because the union is so good that it attracts people voluntarily to join it; they want people to be obliged to join compulsorily. They want universal dominion on the part of the union, aided in some cases by tyranny. 
They want to bludgeon non-unionists into joining unions. 
Because unions are in a privileged position once they are registered, because of preference and because of the right of exclusive representation, this system must be given balance. It must be a system which gives rights also to those who do not want to join unions and who object to joining unions on the grounds of conscientious objection. That is the justification for the conscientious provisions in the Bill. 
It is also the justification for the amendment being made to section 142 A by virtue of clause 19 of the Bill because it limits to some extent the right of exclusive representation given to an industrial organisation under the Act. It is quite right and proper that in appropriate circumstances there should be some restrictions imposed on that exclusive right of representation to an organisation in a particular industry. 
Not only should there be some preservation of the rights of people who do not want to join unions but likewise there must be a recognition that people who are members of the organisation have rights. They pay their dues; they surrender a lot of their responsibility to the union and it is only right and proper that the Government should take steps to ensure that the union acts properly towards its own members. Accordingly it is right and proper that this Bill should make some quite stringent provisions for the keeping of accounts and for the auditing of those accounts. It is quite right and proper that those accounts, when they are audited, should be submitted to the Industrial Registrar where they will be available for inspection. It is quite right and 
E roper that those accounts, when audited, should e available to the members of the organisation so that they can see what is happening to the union dues which they pay to the organisation and which are supposed to be spent on their behalf. Consequently, the provisions relating to accounts and those relating to secret ballots are just and fair and it is right and proper that they should be included in the legislation. 
I would have thought that there is an obligation on a government to ensure that there is a legislative framework to ensure that there is a proper and fair ballot for the election of office bearers of an organisation. That is the second principle. 
The third principle is this: If unions- again I am talking solely about unions on this occasion- do not act responsibly, if they do not use the machinery which is available to them under the Act, they must face the reality of deregistration. They get privileges from registration and I have mentioned some of them already. They are put in a tremendously privileged position by virtue of registration under the Act, particularly if they obtain the benefits of preference and particularly if they obtain the benefits of exclusive representation in an industry or a section of an industry. If they do not act responsibly, if they do not use the machinery which is set up to process their claims, they must face the reality that there is a possibility that they will be deregistered, that there is a possibility that they will be denied those exclusive privileges which come to them on registration under the Act. They cannot expect to hold their privileged position and act with impugnity whenever they wish and to get away with it. Hence there are provisions under the Act for deregistration and hence, likewise, the deregistration provisions are being widened under this particular Bill. 
It is fair and reasonable and proper that the provisions with respect to deregistration should be widened so that it is a ground for deregistration that the organisation has been engaged in activities which result in disrupting trade and commerce between the State or with other countries. It is likewise right and proper and fair that there should be a ground of deregistration if the organisation is involved in an interference with the provision of a public service to the community of Australia. 
While I am on that subject I might as well mention that it is extraordinary that there are organisations, composed of employees paid with public funds, and m most cases paid very well, who assume unto themselves, despite the fact that they are paid from public funds, the decision to withdraw a service which is supposed to be provided by them to the public at large. That is an extraordinary situation. These people are being paid with public moneys, are employed to provide a public service to the commumty, yet on their own say so they can just withdraw their labour and deny that public service being provided to the community. Accordingly it is only fair and proper that that should be a ground- it is not an automatic ground, as the honourable member for Gellibrand seems to think- for going to the Federal court and saying that that organisation should be deregistered completely or in part because it has withheld an essential public service to the community of Australia. 
Those are just some of the basic principles. As I have said, what this Bill does is draw attention to those basic principles. It goes some distance towards laying down those principles. It is on those grounds that this piece of legislation should have the unqualified support of every honourable member of this House. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Has the rate of inflation in Australia been reduced in the last 21 months? If so, by what degree has it been reduced? 
I am not an economist like the honourable member. Has the Treasurer seen reports that unemployment in Australia has in fact increased in the last 21 months? Are those reports accurate"? What is the Treasurer's prognosis of the extent of unemployment and the prospects for the opening up of new job opportunities? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
How many grants have been made or committed for projects under the Aged Persons Hostels Act in the State of victoria in each of the years 1975-76 to 1977-78, inclusive. 
With respect to each of these grants, (a) what is the name of the organisation undertaking the project, (b) what is the value of the project, (c) what is the amount of the grant, (d) where is the project situated and (e) how many aged persons and staff will the project accommodate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
1 ) How many grants have been made or committed for projects under the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act in the State of Victoria in each of the years 1975-76 to 1977-78, inclusive. 
With respect to each of these grants, (a) what is the name of the organisation undertaking the project, (b) what is the value of the project, (c) what is the amount of the grant, (d) where is the project situated and (e) how many aged or disabled persons and staff will the project accommodate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
What grants have been provided to the Preston Institute of Technology in each of the years 1975-76 to 1977-78, inclusive. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
What grants have been provided to the La Trobe University in each of the years 1975-76 to 1977-78, inclusive. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
1 ) What programs have been supported by funds provided by the Department of Social Security in the electoral division of Diamond Valley, including recurrent and nonrecurrent expenditure during the years 1975-76 and 1976- 77. 
What was the expenditure on each program. 
What programs will be supported during the year 1977- 78. 
What will be the expenditure on each program. 
-I propose to the House for its  Speaker Sir Billy  Mackie Snedden, the right honourable member for Bruce, and move: 
That the right honourable member for Bruce do take the Chair of this House as Speaker. 
The commencement of a new Parliament and the Governor-General's Speech should encourage us to consider the direction in which our country is proceeding and the direction in which we believe it should be proceeding. If we do not make this examination of" basic principles from time to time we run the risk of getting lost in a wilderness of details and concentrating on short term issues while we ignore the consequences of what we are doing, the type of society we are building and the type of society we believe we should be trying to create. If we are to undertake this type of examination- this is an appropriate time at which to do it- our first task should be to get clearly into our minds what we believe government should be doing and to understand what it is capable of doing. 
The most dominant theme of our age has been the expansion of government. It has so expanded at every level that there are now very few areas of human activity that are not controlled by government regulation in one form or another. Usually this control is dressed up as 'reform', which is the modern euphemism for 'change'. My concern is that with this expansion of government it has gone into fields where it cannot achieve any desirable improvement in society and where it may indeed be counter-productive. Government is now involved with activities which our basic principles should tell us are not proper areas for government involvement. As government has expanded, so has it drifted further and further away from the basic principle which is its only justification, and that is that it exists only to serve individuals and not to control them. I suggest that this is a time when we should assert that if the expansion of government is not stemmed and reversed the society will quickly lose the strength of the momentum and impetus which comes from individuals and their own exertion. We have drifted away from that principle and we should get back to it. 
So often government decisions and legislation proceed on the assumption that all wisdom rests in the government and that the government can best determine what is good for the people, and particularly can determine the best way in which their money should be spent. That has always seemed to me to be a very strange assumption to make because in many cases those doing the directing and the regulating are not involved in what they are controlling and regulating and have had no experience of it at all. I hope, therefore, that if there is one principle upon which we can act in this Parliament it will be to keep the role of government and the extent of its activities under greater control. I am confident that the present Government will have that as one of its guiding principles, but if we do not do so we will one day face the fact that we have more people doing the controlling and regulating, gathering the taxes, spending the taxes and depending on that expenditure than we will have people producing the wealth for all of that to be done. We will then be in a state of irreversible decline and our society will be quite unrecognisable. If that is what we want, then so be it. If it is not what we want we must ensure that government actions and legislation are directed to giving more, not less, impetus and stimulus to the individual. 
We will have to make a lot of hard decisions during this Parliament on matters which will raise this basic issue of whether government involvement should be expanded or reduced. I hope that when deciding these issues we will recall the basic principle that the greatest good will come from the greatest scope given to individual effort. Some of the matters with which we will have to deal are perennials, where extensive government involvement is already a fait accompli. In the Budget debate last year the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  mentioned some of those areas of present government involvement in which we should question whether we really want that involvement and control, and certainly whether we want it to the extent that we now have it. I commend that speech to honourable members for close study. It shows that many areas of government activity regarded as Holy Writ and unchallengeable really start to look very limp when subjected to some basic questioning. 
One issue that will have to be determined this year is the cost of health care. I hope that we do not merely fiddle around with the present structure. I hope that we make the present system justify itself by reference to basic principle. We should realise in the first place that many people do not want to be insured and do not need to be insured. Unless there are overwhelming reasons to the contrary, they should not be compelled to be insured. To include those people in a universal scheme guarantees an enormous bureaucracy, unlimited expenditure and very little, if any, public benefit for them or for the community at large. The bulk of the population, however, will want to be insured and it will need to be insured. It should take out private insurance with some government involvement if that is unavoidable. The poor should be provided with completely free treatment for that is the obligation of society towards the poor and the disadvantaged who cannot support themselves. Frankly, it would be simpler and cheaper in the long run to pay for their costs outright. I would rather see a plain demonstration of humanity by that means than the vast and cumbrous structure which now embraces us all and which will probably strangle us with its computer printouts if it does not bankrupt us first. It is a terrible indictment of the present scheme that there is apparently under consideration a proposal for higher income earners to pay an extra charge to keep this creaking machine going. The higher income earners are said to be those earning $200 or more. That is surprising, seeing that average weekly earnings are $205. 
The second matter to which we will have to draw attention again is the continuous issue of taxation reform. If we do not press on with taxation reform we will find more and more of the productive members of society concluding that their exertion is simply not justified by the rewards. Clearly, the present Government's taxation reforms were desirable and effective. For instance, I notice that as one of the results of those reforms there is now not the same reluctance to work overtime. I think it is also true to say that there is now a feeling that the taxation burden has been lessened to some extent. All of that is good, but the really productive people in the community- the tradesmen, the professional people, the business people and their employees- are still being wrung dry, and that feeling is encouraged when they see how a lot of their money is being spent. 
One could devote an entire speech to this subject of taxation reform but two examples are sufficient to show how the taxation system acts to restrict business initiative and incentive. Let us take a private company which has a taxable income of $100,000 this year. After paying company tax of $46,000, $54,000 will remain. After utilising the retention allowance of 60 per cent, $21,600 remains. The dividends are paid and they will attract personal tax in the vicinity of $12,960 in all probability. So the result is that of the original taxable income of $100,000, the net income, after tax, is $8,640 or thereabouts. If the company has a capital of $400,000 the proprietor has made 2.3 per cent on his investment after tax. That cannot really be described as much of an inducement to stay or indeed to go into business. 
The second example relates to excess distribution and the amendments made to the law on that subject in 1976. I have been advised that those amendments were catastrophic for private companies, which are the structure for much of the small business activity conducted in Australia today. The whole argument is set out in the  Taxpayer  of 25 February 1978. It seems that this clearly was a case of over-reaction to prevent specific tax avoidance. In the course of preventing the abuse, many private companies now have been severely hit once again. I commend that article to honourable members. Here may even be, who knows, one of the solutions to our unemployment problem, or to part of it. If we substantially reduce business taxes it might just be profitable, once again, to employ people, which it scarcely is today in many businesses. 
-Indeed. Of course, I give credit to it. We also will have to ask some hard questions about education, particularly tertiary education. I pose the question: Can we afford a completely free system that asks the student to make virtually no contribution at all? Is there no merit at all in a system of student loans- even loans of larger sums, if necessary, than the present Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowance- to enable students to lead civilised lives, free from the distractions of money, while they are studying, but to repay that loan when they start earning income? Surely they owe something to the community at large which has paid for them to obtain a qualification which almost guarantees them a higher earning ability and a higher standard of living than those of the community at large. After all, it is the working man himself who now is producing income to pay taxes to pay for, amongst other things, free grants to tertiary students who never return what they have been advanced. Presumably the argument against this is that when they graduate they pay taxes. But the working man, part of whose taxes has been spent in this way, never has it refunded to him. 
In the area of social welfare, are we really doing much to encourage self-reliance by the way the social services system is structured, with a claim being made, an examination of the claim, followed by a straight payment of money? Does it achieve anything at all, we should ask ourselves, except to encourage another application and to encourage more people to rely on the same system? This is a question we should be asking particularly about unemployment benefits. Despite the improvements made by the present Government, is the system of virtually automatic and regular payments really the best way of encouraging people to work for their living? Again, I hope that we address our minds seriously to this question. I would not pretend to have the answers to these questions. What concerns me far more than not having the answers is that in many areas such as those I have mentioned we have even stopped asking the questions. Of course, it is much easier not to ask the questions and to keep adding to the same structure of more and more application of government wisdom and government money and more and more diminution of self-reliance. 
As politicians we are nudged along in this exercise by the treadmill effect of the lust for popularity which haunts us all. That is just as true of me as it is of other members in this place. We like to go back to our electorates at the end of the week and say: 'Look how effective a member of Parliament I am. Look at the thousands of dollars I have obtained for your favourite project in the last week. I hope you will remember this when the next election comes around'. That is just as much a vice that contributes to the present system as is any other feature of it. We have become so preoccupied with the need for social welfare and support of one means or another that we find now that there is virtually a social welfare establishment. Like all establishments, it is concerned to entrench itself, to increase the number of clients who are dependent on it and to expand the proportion of resources over which it has control. Like all establishments, it reacts with outrage if any suggestion is made to limit the boundaries of its empire. We have now given such an impetus to the social welfare establishment that we run the risk of encouraging a dependent mentality. 
Perhaps it is time to encourage a different view of society and of the nature of the individual in society. Perhaps it is time to suggest that more effort should be directed to encouraging individuals to find their own place in society and that instead of devising means of encouraging more people to rely on the state we should be encouraging more people to rely on themselves. If this is not done, then the mendicant philosophy will overwhelm us all. We should be examining, for instance, why it is that almost every day in this place- at least in my case- we are deluged with reports and surveys of one sort or another on matters of social welfare. They are all very worthwhile, deserving subjects for inquiry. But no one seems to be investigating how the individual can be encouraged to stand on his own feet, to make his own contribution to society and to improve his own material and social position. No reports on that subject land on my desk. We should be examining the subjects of health care, social welfare, education and many of the other sacrosanct areas of government expenditure to see whether there is a better way of achieving the same desirable end- a method of helping those who really need help, yet at the same time encouraging their self-reliance. 
Despite the substantial achievements of the present Government in this area- such as its taxation reforms, its encouragement of law reform and administrative review, its encouragement of the individual trade unionist as opposed to the monolothic trade union that tries to dominate him- despite all the reductions in government expenditure and despite the reduction in the size of the Public Service, I hope that during this Parliament we  will continue with  this as one of our guiding principles: a concern to keep the role and the involvement of government under some reasonable control and, at the same time, to improve and increase the role of the individual citizen in society. 
In view of what the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has said, it is really not necessary to engage in a long debate on these Bills. Accordingly, I will be comparatively brief. The surprising thing is that the legislation is necessary at all. I thought it was the generally accepted practice that persons seeking the use of the courts could reasonably be expected to bear some of the costs of administering the courts. The purpose of these Bills is to give to the Executive Government the power to make regulations on the specification of those costs with respect to the proceedings of the court and to the service or execution of the process of the court by officers of the court. One would have thought that that was a fairly well established practice by now. 
I was surprised to read in the second reading speech and to hear it confirmed by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith that the attitude of the Labor Party when it was in government was that there should be no such costs. The reason why that policy decision was adopted apparently was the general position that that party takes, namely, that the courts should be open and available to all, even those who cannot, from their own funds, afford to approach and to use the courts to obtain justice. That is a very desirable objective. It is an objective with which few people would disagree. It should be remembered, however, despite what the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has said, that a wide ranging legal aid scheme has existed in this country for many years. In fact, I think the Victorian Public Solicitor's Office was established in the late 1920s. It is a fact that a wide ranging legal aid scheme is operating within Australia under the auspices of the Federal and State governments and a series of private organisations to enable people who do not have their own means to approach and to use the courts to obtain justice for their cause. That is the first point. There is a wide ranging legal aid scheme. 
I would have thought, with respect, that it is appropriate and reasonable that charges should be made for court fees and for service and execution of process by officers of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court and the 
Northern Territory Supreme Court. Someone has to pay, although it may be desirable to say that the individual litigant should not have to bear the cost himself. If the litigants do not bear the costs themselves, the taxpayers, as a whole, have to bear the costs. As with so many other examples one could give, there is no such thing as a free day in court. If the individual litigants do not bear the costs themselves, the taxpayers, as a whole, will bear the costs and inevitably that will give rise to more costs because a larger administrative structure will be needed to service that arrangement. 
It may well be true, as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith said, that the court costs levied do not go anywhere near the overall cost of administering the court. It may therefore be appropriate for the Government each year in the course of its normal reports to indicate what proportion of the cost of running these courts is recovered by means of court fees. Perhaps by that means people may realise that what the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith mentioned is indeed true, namely that the individuals using the courts are in fact not contributing sub.tantially to the overall running costs of the courts. 
One thing that the Government could perhaps bear in mind in the course of making regulations to levy fees and the costs of service and execution of process is that it is a considerable nuisance for the legal profession and individual litigants to have to pay a separate and individual fee every time they file a separate document in the court. I would commend to the Federal Government a reform in this regard introduced and now operative in the County Court in Victoria, where I think it is commonly acknowledged that many desirable reforms have been made in the area of law. What happens in the County Court in Victoria is that the litigant on instituting the proceedings pays one sum by way of stamp duty on the issue of the summons to cover the filing of all documents in the course of the proceedings. It would be appropriate if the Government considered this practice in the course of drawing regulations, that is to say, to provide for one fee so that once an action is instituted the litigant and the practitioner acting for him in the matter do not have to keep paying a separate fee on the filing of each document, which must of itself, of course, inevitably add to an increase in costs. 
In my view it is fair to say that the proposed amendment to the Act will not impose unfair burdens on litigants who may not have the funds to maintain their own cause of action in the courts. As I have already said, a wide ranging legal aid scheme is operating in Australia. People often forget that there has always been another unsung legal aid system operating in Australia, and that is the system provided by the profession itself. The legal profession does not always trumpet its own work in this field. Often its work is overlooked. For many years the legal profession has given voluntary service in the conduct of litigation in the courts and the provision of other legal services for those who cannot afford to pay for those services themselves. For those reasons I do not believe that anyone is excluded from the courts today by a lack of means. I do not believe that the amendment to the Act will impose any financial burdens on people who seek the use of the courts and who cannot afford the funds to maintain their actions in the courts. Rather, this amendment to the Act is a very commendable attempt to recover for the purposes of the public purse some share of the expenses imposed by individuals on the structure of the courts. 
-I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether on his recent visit to Bangkok he pursued the issue of Vietnamese refugees and, in particular, the issue of the reunion of Vietnamese families in Australia. If he did pursue those matters in Bangkok can he tell us the outcome of his discussions on those issues? 
wn asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 April 1 978: 
1 ) What are the names of each of the companies, persons or businesses holding licences or franchises to engage in retail trade in the terminal building of Tullamarine Airport. 
On what date (a) was each licence or franchise granted and (b) will each licence or franchise expire. 
What are the terms and conditions of each licence or franchise. 
n asked the Minister for 
Transport, upon notice, on 4 April 1 978: 
1 ) What are the names of each of the companies, persons or businesses holding licences or franchises to engage in retail trade in the international terminal building of Sydney Airport. 
On what date (a) was each licence or franchise granted and (b) will each licence or franchise expire. 
What are the terms and conditions of each licence or franchise. 
wn asked the Minister for 
Transport, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: (l)and(2)- 
1 ) What are the names of each of the companies, persons or businesses holding licences for franchises to engage in retail trade in the domestic terminal building of Sydney Airport. 
On what date (a) was each licence or franchise granted and (b) will each licence or franchise expire. 
What are the terms and conditions of each licence or franchise. 
wn asked the Minister for Tansport, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: (l)and(2)-_ 
1 ) What are the names of each of the companies, persons or businesses holding licences or franchises to engage in retail trade in the terminal building of Adelaide Airport. 
On what date (a) was each licence or franchise granted and ( b ) will each licence or franchise expire. 
What are the terms and conditions of each licence or franchise. 
wn asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 April 1 978: (l)and(2)- 
1 ) What are the names of each of the companies, persons or businesses holding licences or franchises to engage in retail trade in the terminal building of Brisbane Airport. 
On what date (a) was each licence or franchise granted and (b) will each licence or franchise expire. 
What are the terms and conditions of each licence or franchise. 
wn asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: (l)and(2)-_ 
1 ) What are the names of each of the companies, persons or businesses holding licences or franchises to engage in retail trade in the terminal building of Perth Airport. 
) On what date (a) was each licence or franchise granted and (b) will each licence or franchise expire. 
What are the terms and conditions of each licence or franchise. 
wn asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
Are health insurance benefits provided for the purchase of hearing aids and other aids to hearing; if not, why not. 
Has he given any consideration to the provision of health insurance benefits for those purposes; if so, what action does he intend to take. 
If not, will he now give consideration to the provision of these benefits. 
wn asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Was his Department requested by the Administrative Review Council to provide information ofthe type-described in Appendix III of the First Annual Report of the Administrative Review Council relating to the operation of tribunals created under legislation administered by his Department and tribunals administered or serviced by his Department during 1976-77; if so, did his Department respond to that request. 
Will he now provide the information referred to in part (1). 
wn asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
Was his Department requested by the Administrative Review Council to provide information ofthe type described in Appendix III of the First Annual Report of the Administrative Review Council relating to the operation of tribunals created under legislation administered by his Department and tribunals administered or serviced by his Department during 1976-77; if so, did his Department respond to that request. 
Will he now provide the information referred to in pan (1) 
wn asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
What are the interdepartmental committees of (a) a permanent and (b) an ad hoc nature on which his Department is presently represented. 
What subjects are presently being investigated by each of these interdepartmental committees. 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether, during the visit of the American VicePresident,  Mr Mondale,  he was able to pursue with  Mr Mondale  the issues relating to the international economic order which have been the subject of debate? If he was able to pursue those matters, can he tell us whether any substantial agreement was reached on those and related issues and, if so, what was it? 
wn asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Was his Department requested by the Administrative Review Council to provide information of the type described in Appendix III of the First Annual Report of the Administrative Review Council relating to the operation of tribunals created under legislation administered by his Department and tribunals administered or serviced by his Department during 1976-77; if so did his Department respond to that request. 
Will he now provide the information referred to in pan (1) 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I preface it by reminding the Treasurer that on Monday of this week he said that the Government had under consideration the possibility of some re-examination of the phasing arrangements with respect to the investment allowance which were to commence on 30 June this year. I ask: Has he had the opportunity to make a further examination of this matter? Has the Government reached any conclusions with respect to the further operation of the investment allowance? If so, what conclusions has it reached about that matter? 
The issue of the grant of  2  per cent of personal income tax to local government has again raised some currency, and that should stimulate us to look fairly closely at some of the activities of local government bodies. I should say at the outset that the case for the granting of  2  per cent of personal income tax is overwhelming and the Government has already committed itself to that course. However, this is a suitable opportunity to examine the question of whether some local government bodies are not content to confine themselves to proper municipal functions but rather want to intrude into the proper responsibilities of other areas of government, in particular the Federal Government. It probably comes as no surprise to you,  Mr Speaker,  that a particular incident has provoked me into raising this matter tonight, and it arose in the following way. There is in Melbourne a body described as Region  14.  Its correct title is the Northern Melbourne Regional Organisation of Councils, No.  14,  Victoria. That body covers the municipalities of Diamond Valley, Eltham, Heidelberg, Northcote, Preston and Whittlesea. It is a region which covers some very significant areas of Melbourne. The organisation has been moved to hold a meeting on Wednesday,  7  June  1978,  to form what it is pleased to call an employment committee covering those areas. What are the functions of this employment committee to be? Broadly, they are to investigate the issue of unemployment. 
Let us look a little more closely at one of the areas that the meeting intends to investigate. To quote from the document that the body has circulated, it is 'to investigate the factors of influencing the present level of employment and those which have impact on future employment levels '. One would not need to be particularly intelligent to discern that this body is to embark upon an exercise of beating the Government over the head on the issue of unemployment, to point the finger at the Federal Government as being responsible for the unemployment that exists at present and for failing to take proper action to reduce unemployment. It is known, of course, that such accusations are completely false, and I refer in particular to the wideranging programs being embarked upon by the Federal Government at the moment to train people to equip themselves to obtain employment in the work force. 
There are two vices in what might seem to be the fairly harmless exercise upon which this organisation is embarking. I suggest that it is nothing more than a trumped up political exercise. The first of the two vices is this: The area concerned covers the electorates of some five Federal members of Parliament. The organisation involved has invited one member of parliament to speak to the function, to lead the argument, and I suggest to commence the attack on the Federal Government on the issue of unemployment. Of all the Federal members who could have been chosen to perform that task the organisation has chosen by a remarkable coincidence the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe),  who is a member of the Australian Labor Party. There is no doubt at all that this is an attempt to use the honourable member for Batman as part of the political exercise upon which this organisation is engaged. I suggest that it is most improper for it to endeavour to do that. It is most improper for the organisation not to seek contributions from myself and the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer),  whose electorates also cover the area concerned. We have not been invited to contribute to the discussion. 
Only the honourable member for Batman, a member of the Labor Party, has been invited. 
The second vice is this: It is ratepayers' funds that will be used for the exercise. In addition, as local government now receives a share of personal income tax, taxpayers' money will also be used. The taxpayers' money and the ratepayers' money will be used for nothing more than a trumped up political exercise, a campaign by politically inspired people to attack the Federal 
Government on an issue which is solely within its responsibility. It seems to me, with respect, a quite improper use of ratepayers' funds and taxpayers' money to embark upon a political exercise of this nature. 
wn asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Was his Department requested by the Administrative Review Council to provide information of the type described in Appendix III of the First Annual Report of the Administrative Review Council relating to the operations of tribunals created under legislation administered by his Department and tribunals administered or serviced by his Department during 1976-77; if so, did his Department respond to that request. 
Will he now provide the information referred to in part(l). 
-I ask the Minister for Special Trade Representations whether he has seen statements criticising Australia's negotiating position on international trade matters, accusing official spokesmen of inconsistency and hypocrisy, and questioning how realistic is the case presented by Australia in these matters. I ask him whether those statements are correct. If not, what are the facts about Australia's position on this matter? Further, what effect do statements of that nature, and those statements in particular, have on the conduct of Australia's representations on these matters. 
wn asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Was his Department requested by the Administrative Review Council to provide information of the type described in Appendix III of the First Annual Report of the Administrative Review Council relating to the operation of tribunals created under legislation administered by his Department and tribunals administered or serviced by his Department during 1976-77; if so, did his Department respond to that request. 
Will he now provide the information referred to in part (I). 
-Is the Minister for Health concerned about the payment of medical benefits by the health insurance funds and by Medibank by means of 'pay doctor' cheques on the abolition of bulk billing when the cheque is sent to persons who may not understand the mechanics of passing on the cheque to the doctor? Is this a particular problem in the case of underprivileged areas such as North Richmond where the issue has been given some currency and amongst some other groups of patients, particularly Aboriginals? Has the Minister considered rectifying the type of problem which may well arise? If so, what conclusions has he reached about the matter? 
wn asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 1 5 March 1 978: 
What are the interdepartmental committees of (a) a permanent and (b) an ad hoc nature on which his Department is presently represented. 
) What subjects are presently being investigated by each of these interdepartmental committees. 
wn asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 4 April 1 978: 
1 ) Was his Department requested by the Administrative Review Council to provide information of the type described in Appendix III of the First Annual Report of the Administrative Review Council relating to the operation of tribunals created under legislation administered by his Department and tribunals administered or serviced by his Department during 1 976-77; if so, did his Department respond to that request. 
Will he now provide the information referred to in part (1) 
wn asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) Are there any restrictions on the uses made by local government authorities of the share of personal income tax made available for local government purposes; if so, what are they. &lt; 
When the Government legislates to provide 2 per cent of personal  income  tax for local government purposes, will it ensure that no pan of those funds made available to local government authorities is spent by them on purposes other than proper local government purposes. 
wn asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Was his Depanment requested by the Administrative Review Council to provide information of the type described in Appendix III of the First Annual Report of the Administrative Review Council relating to the operation of tribunals created under legislation administered by his Depanment and tribunals administered or serviced by his Depanment during 1976-77; if so, did his Department respond to that request. 
Will he now provide the information referred to in pan(l). 
wn asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 4 April 1 978: 
1 ) Was his Department requested by the Administrative Review Council to provide information of the type described in Appendix III of the First Annual Report of the Administrative Review Council relating to the operation of tribunals created under legislation administered by his Department and tribunals administered or serviced by his Department during 1976-77: if so, did his Department respond to that request. 
Will he now provide the information referred to in part(l). 
-I ask the Treasurer: How does it come about, if it is the case, that 40 per cent of workers in the building industry do not pay income tax at all, according to the New South Wales President of the Building Workers Industrial Union of Australia? 
-How do the rest of us get into it? How did this situation arise, and will the Budget proposals bring it to an end? Furthermore, is there then a case, as the  president  of that union went on to say, for those employees to obtain higher wages to restore what the  president  called their real income? What would be the consequences for the economy of higher wage claims to recoup the payment of normal tax which should already have been paid in the first place? 
wn asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
Has the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1 977 been proclaimed; if not, what is the reason and when will it be proclaimed. 
I am sure that if the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  had given more thought to his remarks this evening he would not have said what he did. Indeed, he would not have made those remarks if he had given more consideration to the basic issue in the dispute about compulsory unionism. The first thing that should be said with respect to this issue, at least in relation to the case of Miss Biggs in Melbourne which the honourable member raised, is that what he said was a gross reflection on the capacity of the Industrial Registrar. It will be recalled that the honourable member said, as is the case, that the grant of a certificate of conscientious objection is made after an examination is conducted by the Industrial Registrar. The honourable member more or less said that the certificate should not have been granted because it was granted on improper material and the evidence of Miss Biggs was not subject to cross-examination. Surely to heavens one can accept that the Industrial Registrar conducted his inquiries properly. As I have said, it is a gross reflection on his capacity and ability to say that when he granted a certificate to Miss Biggs he did so improperly. So far as I am concerned, I am prepared to accept the decision of the Industrial Registrar in that matter and to accept that the certificate was properly given. 
The second point to be made about this issue is that the argument advanced by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, by  Mr Hawke  and by those in the union movement who advocate compulsory unionism is along these lines. They say to people: 'You do not want to join the union but you are prepared to take the advantages of the work of the union. You are prepared to take the benefit of wage increases, improvements in conditions and all the other benefits that are obtained by the trade union movement'. In some cases that may well be true, but the point about it is that if Miss Biggs wanted to work under conditions less favourable than those in the award who would be opposing it? It would not be the Tramway Board, not the employer. It would be the union itself which would say: 'No, you are not going to take benefits less than those prescribed by the award'. If the employer was given an opportunity to pay less than the award he would probably agree to it but he would be prevented from doing so. That is the basic answer to the objection. It is the union itself which prevents people such as Miss Biggs from not taking the advantages which the union maintains it secured. In any event, the whole argument that was advanced is quite absurd because, with indexation, it is the benefits granted by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission under indexation and not any great achievements of the union which are passed on to the employee. 
At the root of the whole argument is a basic issue which the honourable member for Melbourne Ports seems to fail to understand, and that is whether in our society persons should be compelled to join organisations which they do not want to join. That is what is at the basis of the whole argument. 
Yes. There are many in Melbourne who do. The honourable member, who is a lawyer himself, does not know that basic proposition that one does not need to sign the Bar roll to practise as a barrister in Melbourne. The basic point, as I say, is that in a free society in which people are entitled to join organisations that they wish they should likewise be allowed to go their own way as individuals if they so wish provided they do not do harm to other individuals. That is the base of our society. That is what is the base of this whole dispute. The fact that the Opposition does not understand this and the fact that some of its supporters outside the Parliament do not understand it, in my view, is one of the great evils in our society which sooner or later we will have to face and to resolve. So long as we fail to resolve that basic issue we will not be a complete society in which individuals are entitled to lead the lives of full, free and independent human beings. 
n asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Was the Department of Science requested by the Administrative Review Council to provide information of the type described in Appendix III of the First Annual Report of the Administrative Review Council relating to the operation of tribunals created under legislation administered by his Department and tribunals administered or serviced by the Minister's Department during 1976-77: if so, did the Department of Science respond to that request. 
Will the Minister now provide the information referred to in part ( 1 ). 
wn asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1 978: 
1 ) Has there been any decision made to increase the quality of brewers sugar. 
If so, when was that decision made and by whom. 
wn asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1 978: 
1 ) Is the sugar known as brewers sugar available for sale in Australia to persons or companies other than brewers. 
If so, is it available at the same or similar price as the price paid by brewers. 
If it is not available for sale to persons or companies other than brewers, what is the reason. 
wn asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1978: 
Can he say whether the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited agreed with several breweries to reduce the price of brewers sugar sold to those breweries shortly prior to the announcement on 1 June 1978, of an increase in the domestic price of sugar. 
If so, what is the explanation for the apparent disparity between the increase in the price of domestic sugar and the decrease in the price of brewers sugar. 
Today, I received a publication from the Victorian Jewish Board of Deputies concerning broadcasts on radio station 3CR in Melbourne. This publication is a catalogue of short transcripts of extracts of broadcasts made on 3CR Melbourne over the last two years or so. The broadcasts must be taken to be extremely offensive not only to Jewish citizens but also to the whole cross section of Australian society. I had believed, before reading this publication that the station from which the broadcasts emanated, 3CR, devoted itself mainly to little more than extreme left wing rubbish and bad quality broadcasting. Having read the publication, I say that it seems that the situation is far worse than that. The Jewish Board of Deputies, in preparing this publication, should be commended for exposing a whole series of broadcasts of hate that have emanated from this station. The broadcasts are offensive and certainly should be regarded as being open incitement to racial hatred. 
Let me draw attention to some of the broadcasts to illustrate what I mean by what I have just said. We find first of all a whole series of broadcasts designed to prove, in the words of one of the broadcasters, 'the inherently fascist nature of Zionism'. The broadcaster went on to say: 
. we're going to have a look historically at the close collaboration of the Zionist organisations with the Nazis during the Second World War. 
What an outrageous statement that is. A series of extracts fall into a second category. I refer to the extraordinary allegation that- again I use the words of one of the broadcasters:   the Australian Press as you may be aware is very much controlled by Zionist influence and Zionist infiltration'. 
Many other extracts are designed to show that the media, including the Press, in Australia is under Zionist influence. Again, one can say what an outrageous and absurd allegation that is. 
The vituperation and hatred which emanate from these broadcasts is not confined to the Jewish people. The station seems concerned also to attack Lebanese citizens and Lebanese who have migrated to Australia. The transcript reads: 
The Australian Lebanese Association, which organised the demonstration, no way represents the majority of the Lebanese community. This Association is a front for Fascist and Right-wing forces who serve only the interests of the rich and powerful- four per cent of the Lebanese population. 
This is nothing more than an attempt to incite racial hatred within the Lebanese section of the Australian community. There are extracts of speeches which are extremely offensive to individuals. I wish that I had time to list them in detail but let me give one example- a reference to  Mr Dayan.  The broadcaster said: 
In reality Dayan is no more than a racist butcher of the Palestinian people . . . The Australian government supported the establishment of the illegal fascist State of Israel. 
Many other people, including  Mr Hawke  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, are defamed in these broadcasts in a similar way. One could go on, but I make the general remark that the extracts indicate that a fair proportion of the time of this radio station is devoted to broadcasts of hatred. They are broadcasts designed to inspire racial hatred in the Australian community. I hope that the Australian Government will investigate this radio station with a view to two matters in particular. In the first place, is any money from the Australian Government going to support these broadcasts of hate and this incitement to racial violence? Secondly, quite apart from the finances of the station, surely the Australian community can do without incitement to racial hatred of this nature. It is completely un-Australian and should be eradicated. 
-Is the Minister for Defence familiar with the formula known as the implicit price deflator? Applying that formula and any other relevant formula, can he say whether defence is continuing to obtain a fair share of available resources? 
I would be very happy to enter into a wide-ranging debate on taxation and taxation reform. If it were not for the fact that I want to raise one specific matter, I would do so. However, at this stage I will content myself by associating myself completely with those parts of the remarks made by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  when he paid credit to the Government for the continuous series of tax reforms which it has introduced since it came to government. This has been, and remains, a government of tax reform. It is a government of tax reform because tax reform and the lessening of the incidence of taxation is consistent with the Government's philosophy. There is one part of the remarks of the honourable member for Denison with which I would not agree and that is when he advocated that additional discretion should be given to the Taxation Commissioner. I would have thought by and large that there are probably enough discretions given to the Taxation Commissioner as it is at the moment and, particularly in view of the fact that most of the taxation legislation now passed is incomprehensible, it seems to me highly undesirable to give him any more discretion than he already has although undoubtedly he exercises the discretion he has with good faith and good intentions, for which I give him credit. 
I turn to the single specific matter concerning this legislation to which I want to draw attention. It is by way of drawing attention to an anomalyperhaps an intentional, anomaly, I do not know- in clause 22 of the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978, and to suggest that it does not meet the Government's intention to reflect the temporary increase of 1.5 per cent in the standard rate of tax. I should make one point perfectly clear at the outset. When we talk about provisional taxpayers we are not necessarily talking about high income earners. A person may be subject to the payment of provisional tax and yet be a very low income earner. What has happened in this case is that unfortunately- I use that word advisedly- it appears that the provisions of clause 22 of this Bill reflect an increase of11/2 per cent over the composite rate for the year1977-78 proposed in the Fifth Schedule to the Income Tax (Rates) Act and not a 11/2 per cent increase over the rates imposed for the year 1978-79 in the Ninth Schedule of that amended Income Tax (Rates) Act. 
The Government is fully entitled to alter the rate of tax for the current financial year and to raise provisional tax in accordance with the rates as amended, but what clause 22 appears to be trying to do is to to levy provisional tax on the basis of a tax rate which has never been in operation and which never will be in operation. Let me explain what that means. Clause 22 requires two components to be added together. The first is the amount of last year's income tax paid by the provisional taxpayers. The second is1 .5 per cent of last year's taxable income. That is what the provisional taxpayer will be obliged to pay this year subject to other qualifications in the section. The point is that that is not an increase of11/2 per cent in tax nor does it reflect in the case of provisional taxpayers the temporary increase of 11/2 per cent in the standard rate of tax. It is an obligation to pay again the sum of last year's tax and, in addition,11/2 per cent of last year's income. 
It does not reflect- this was said to be the intention but it is not the intention- an increase of 11/2 per cent in the standard rate of tax because last year's income tax was not a payment at the standard rate of tax on income but an assessment of provisional tax. So the Bill takes from the provisional taxpayer this year the whole of last year's tax and11/2 per cent of last year's income. The increased payment is an increase on a rate of tax which never was a rate of tax, properly so called, and which never will be. Therefore, provisional taxpayers will have to pay much more than an increase of11/2 per cent, to put it in simple terms. Some rough calculations have been made to make this clearer and the calculations are as to the differences between the provisional tax rate proposed under clause 22 and the actual rate of tax for1978-79 which is proposed by the new Ninth Schedule pursuant to the Income Tax (Rates) Amendment Bill 1978. These are increases or decreases as compared with the actual rates. I have already obtained the consent of the Opposition and I ask for leave to incorporate in 

 Hansard a list of those calculations. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- $3,402-$3,750-Increase of 281/2 per cent. $3,750-$3,893-Increase of 30.585 per cent. $3,893-$6,266-Decrease of 2.91 5 per cent. $6,266-$ 12,532-Increase of1.749 percent. $12,532-$16,000-Increase of 7.579 per cent. $16,608-$ 1 8,798-Decrease of0.583 per cent. $18,798-$25,063-Increaseof5.547 per cent. $25,063-$3 1 ,329-Increase of 8.1 62 per cent. $31 ,329-$32,000-Increase of11 .077 per cent. $32,000-$33,2 1 6-Increase of1 6.91 5 per cent. $33,216 and above- Increase of2. 915 percent. 
When you come to look at this list in  Hansard  you will find that the increase in the case of the provisional taxpayer earning between $3,750 and $3,893 is not 1.5 per cent at all, nor is it 5 per cent nor10 per cent but an increase of over 30 per cent, and so it goes on. For instance, we find there is an increase of over 8 per cent for taxpayers earning between roughly $25,000 and $31,000. Any reflection of an increase of 11/2 per cent is rather difficult to see. It must have been an oversight to have permitted such differentials between the provisional rates of tax and the true rates of tax for the years 1978-79. A letter has been sent to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  from a distinguished Melbourne Queen's Counsel setting out this and some related matters. I am sure that the Treasurer will have regard to the matters contained in that letter and to the matters that I have put forward in the course of these brief remarks tonight. I hope that when the legislation is before the Senate some opportunity will be taken to rectify this anomaly. None of that can depart in any way at all from the recognition that should be given to this Government as being a government of tax reform. 
In the course of a number of measures the Government has lessened the incidence of the tax burden on all citizens. As I have said previously, this is consistent with the Government's philosophy because since it came to government it has sought to leave with the taxpayer as much of his own resources as possible so that he can exercise his own decision and judgment as to the way in which he wishes to spend that money. Of course, in his remarks the honourable member for Denison drew attention to the  Vh  per cent surcharge which will be imposed in this year. One can understand the reasons that led to the imposition of that surcharge. One can also understand the concern of the Government that it was necessary to introduce that surcharge. However, let us remind ourselves that it is a temporary surcharge and not a permanent exaction from the taxpayers of Australia. We should remind ourselves of that not just because of the amount of money involved which will have to be paid by individuals but also because it is part of the overall taxation situation. This Government, State governments and governments of comparable countries cannot continue with this continuous exaction from the efforts and the incentive of the citizens who produce the real wealth in the community. With an increase in taxation we find an increasing dependence by people on governments for what governments do in return for the taxes they levy. I draw attention to these matters very briefly because I have no doubt whatsoever that the Government is committed to taxation reform, that it has demonstrated that and that it will continue to demonstrate it. 
The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  has a very vivid imagination, and I give him full marks for that. Not only is he able to picture in his mind a Liberal-Country Party meeting, quite accurately I might say, but more than that he is able to give what I can describe only as a very novel interpretation of the economic problems facing Australia today. If the honourable member for Burke would contain himself for one moment, I will deal with one of the erroneous views he put forward. The honourable member maintained that wage increases in Australia today are of no significance whatsoever so far as inflation and unemployment are concerned, and I emphasise the words 'of no significance at all'. I concede that the Government may be hard pressed to show that wage increases are the sole reason for inflation and the sole reason for unemployment in Australia. but I should have thought that everyone who has any understanding at all of the issues would have agreed that wage increases in Australia since 1974 have played a major part in the economic problems that have faced this country. 
If the honourable member for Burke has any doubt at all about this, I would refer him to the views not of a spokesman for the Government benches but of one of the Labor Party's own economic advisers during the three years of the Labor Government. I refer to Professor Gruen, a very distinguished economist. Professor Gruen quite recently, after a lot of research, has expounded the view that the wage overhang, as it is called, the excess of wage costs over productivity- what this nation produces in goods and services- is still today, even after the erosion of real wages, a major factor at the root of the unemployment problem facing Australia. That is not me speaking, that is Professor Gruen, and I suggest that the honourable member for Burke should go away and read what he has had to say because he was an adviser during the three years of the Labor Government. Indeed, he was even an adviser to the great man himself. 
I will deal now more specifically with the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations and make a brief remark about an Act of this Parliament the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, within the framework of which industrial relations in the federal sphere are conducted. There are many Commonwealth statutes which today require consolidation and redrafting, and one of the major candidates for that treatment is the Conciliation and Arbitration Act.  Sir John  Moore, who is the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, recently described the Conciliation and Arbitration Act as a lawyer's nightmare. A number of other people who were present at the conference where  Sir John  made that remark agreed with him. For instance, amongst others, I agreed with him. It is true that the Act requires consolidation. It requires redrawing because it is now one of the prime candidates in the legislative jigsaw stakes. Above all, the Act is one which is required to be used regularly by people in the work place on both sides of the industrial fence- on the management side and the union side. It must be comprehensible, it must be understandable, it must follow logically, and I am afraid that at the moment it is not really any of those things. I make a plea for the early redrafting and consolidation of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
The second point I want to make briefly, although it is important, is that in times of difficult industrial relations it is appropriate to pay regard to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  whom I think handles a very difficult portfolio very well. Not only has he been concerned with some very difficult industrial relations crises but he has also been concerned with a very difficult employment situation. I believe that he has brought good faith, high intelligence and a very honest approach to the very real problems facing Australia. If one of the tests of a successful industrial relations policy is the number of days lost through strikes, then surely the Government in general and the Minister in particular must be given considerable credit for what they have achieved. I say that because in 1974 Australians, believe it or not, lost over 6 million working days through industrial disputes. Last year, 1977, the number had dropped to just over 1,500,000. There was a drop from over 6 million working days to just over 1,500,000 working days. Frankly, I think that that is a very accurate and appropriate indication of the success of the policies administered by the Government and  Mr Street  in industrial relations. 
In the remaining time available to me I want to put, I hope in a non-partisan way, some of the objectives that any government should have- I believe that this Government has- in the industrial relations field. What are the basic objectives that a government should pursue in industrial relations? The first, I suggest, is that we should try to achieve harmonious relations between employers and employees. Secondly, we should try to achieve a situation where disputes, if they arise, are settled by conciliation or, if that fails, by arbitration. Our third objective should be to ensure that the public is not inconvenienced by strikes in industry and, in particular, in public utilities. It should be recognised that many of the victims of strikes and other industrial action are innocent. The Government has a responsibility to those people and, indeed, to all citizens to use all the powers it has at its disposal to ensure that citizens can go about their ordinary lives and continue their work unhampered by disruptive industrial action. Above all, the Government, I would maintain, has every right to ensure that government employees and employees of semigovernment instrumentalities, who after all have permanent employment, who are in a monopoly position in industry and who are paid from public money, are not able to hold the rest of the community at ransom merely at their own whim. That is an essential objective of any industrial relations policy. 
Our fourth objective should be to encourage membership of industrial organisations, particularly trade unions. Members should be encouraged to take an active part in the running of their union's affairs. Our fifth objective should be that despite that objective individuals should be protected from a domineering or overbearing industrial organisation. Sixthly, it should be recognised- I venture to suggest that some Opposition members do not seem to appreciate this-that industrial relations decisions, including voluntary settlements as well as arbitrated decisions, cannot be looked at solely in a vacuum. They all affect the economy. Some decisions, in fact, damage the economy. Some decisions hamper the achievements of the Government's economic policies and objectives. 
The seventh objective is a tremendously important one which has probably only come to the surface during the life of the present Government, and that is that the public interest should be protected and preserved. The Government has taken the position that there is a public interest above and quite apart from the immediate private interests of the parties concerned, whether trade unions or employers. The public has a right to be heard and represented. The Government has endeavoured, I believe successfully, to manifest the preservation of that public interest. The final objective is to put the Public Service as nearly as possible on the same footing as employment in private enterprise. 
Those are, in effect, non-partisan positions. I believe that they are sensible, practical and rational objectives of any industrial relations policy. I hope that in the remaining time of this Parliament over the next two and a half years the Opposition will see its way clear to join with the Government in pursuing those policies. The only result will be the betterment of the welfare of all Australian people. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  The honourable member's time- has expired. 
The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  may be the best truck driver in Australia, and indeed he probably is; but he must have obtained his driving licence under false pretences because he seems to have some difficulty in reading.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  you will recall that, when the honourable member read the part of the guidelines as stated by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  relating to the contribution of $20 to be made by legally assisted people, the words he read out from the guidelines were as follows: 
A minimum contribution of $20 will be imposed in all cases as a matter of course. 
The honourable member for Burke did not go on to read the remaining part of the guideline which is as follows:  unless the applicant can demonstrate that this would impose a real financial hardship. 
In other words, if an applicant for legal aid found it an impossible financial burden to pay the $20 contribution, then that person would not be required to pay. That person would receive legal aid completely free. I suggest that that is a further demonstration of the quite humane attitude that the present Government takes to legal aid. 
The brings me to the second matter I wish to mention about legal aid. It is a matter upon which the honourable member for Denison  (Mr 
Hodgman) touched. It is the large area of legal aid which is not usually recognised by the public at large- the voluntary legal aid given by the profession. In the old days, before a wideranging legal aid system was established, members of the profession used to perform a lot of legal aid work completely free. They would do it without any problem whatsoever if a client had an injustice which he wanted to have rectified and could not afford to pay. Lawyers are not money lenders or hire purchase companies. They are not doctors. They are concerned with seeing that clients obtain justice, They are not concerned with whether they make additional money. I know from my own investigations that if the honourable member for Denison had been paid one-quarter of the fees to which he would have been entitled as a result of all the free work he has done, he would be as rich as Croesus. He would be able to retire and live on his investments instead of serving here and performing an estimable public service as an indefatigable fighter for the people of Tasmania. 
With respect to other matters falling within the estimates of the Attorney-General's Department, I wish to draw attention to several matters affecting the administration of justice at the federal level. The first of these is the Commonwealth statutes. I recently received the 1975 volume of Commonwealth statutes so it seems that the publication of the statutes is three years behind. The consequence of this delay is that practitioners and all others who require access to the law are severely handicapped in not having the current statutes in a convenient form. It is a fundamental principle that the law should be readily accessible. But it is not readily accessible where the statutes are produced in volume form three years after the legislation is passed by the Parliament. I hope that a serious and sustained attempt can be made to bring the publication of the annual collection of statutes up to date. 
Of equal importance is the need to consolidate many Commonwealth statutes which have been amended many times, especially in recent years. Some of them have been amended so frequently that it is now a major exercise to understand just where the present statute law is contained before one can even commence the struggle of understanding its provisions. Two prominent candidates for consolidation are the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and the Income Tax Act.  Sir John  Moore at a recent conference described the Conciliation and Arbitration Act as a lawyers' nightmare. I would have thought that that was a very mild criticism considering the abundance of amendments to that Act which have been made in the last five years. The Conciliation and Arbitration Act is, more than most other Acts, an instrument which has a regular, practical application and which must be available in a comprehensive form. It is simply failing to meet its proper purpose when it is scattered around like some statutory jigsaw puzzle as it is at present. 
The Income Tax Act is also in desperate need of consolidation to make it even remotely comprehensible. I hope the Government will give attention to consolidating the Commonwealth statutes. While it is doing so it should consider the Victorian system of frequent consolidations of individual Acts in loose folder form which, amongst other attractions, enables new Acts to be inserted in a continuous consolidation. These matters are important because access to the law is important. It cannot be said that anyone has access to the law contained in the Commonwealth statutes while they are in their present state. Attention should also be given to improving the quality of the drafting statutes. I appreciate that this is easy to say but difficult to put into practice. It is only when a draftsman starts to put a simple proposition onto paper that he realises just how difficult it is to put that proposition into words. Despite that qualification, the unavoidable conclusion is that a lot of Commonwealth drafting is difficult to comprehend. Undoubtedly the prize again must go to the Income Tax Act which is now a wilderness of confusion. 
Most ordinary citizens, and even some lawyers and accountants who have to advise on taxation matters, have great difficulty in understanding some amendments to the Income Tax Act, particularly the most recent ones. I suspect that some of the amendments made recently do not mean anything at all. Legislation should be plain, clear and straightforward. I hope that a serious and sustained effort will be made to improve the clarity of Commonwealth drafting and to simplify the language used. 
No contribution to a debate on the AttorneyGeneral's Department would be complete without a favourable reference being made to the Law Reform Commission and to its  chairman, Mr Justice  Kirby. The work of the Commission constitutes the most substantial contribution to law reform in the history of Australia. It has stimulated discussion in public, as well as in the profession, of a wide range of subjects where there is great scope for reform. The Commission must be commended for its work. However, there is a gap in the machinery of law reform which should be remedied. We have the Commission, its research and publications, public debate- perhaps too much of that on occasionsand Government consideration of its proposals. To get law reform past all those stages to the position where the reform is translated into legislation and becomes law seems very difficult at present. I believe that we must exert ourselves in the Parliament to bridge the gap and to find some workable machinery to have the worthwhile achievements of the Law Reform Commission put into legislative form without excessive delay. When we achieve that we will have a practical and commendable system of law reform in operation in the Federal sphere. 
As one example of this I point to the time when the Australian Law Reform Commission reported on criminal investigation in 1975. The draft Bill lapsed in November 1977. It has been under close examination since then and it is now time to promote another Bill which will substantially implement the Commission's recommendations. The Commission is presently working on references relating to defamation, debt recovery, insurance contracts, class actions, privacy, Aboriginal customary law, lands acquisition and sentencing. One can see from that list of references that the Commission at the moment is at the forefront of law reform in Australia. It has the scope, if we provide the consequential machinery, for major reforms of the law in this country. 
It is more in sorrow than in anger that I raise a certain matter tonight. I am reluctant to do so, and only do so because the matter has been drawn to my attention and I feel that it should be given some airing. On 16 August this year, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  as Minister representing the then Minister for Administrative Services drew attention, in answer to a question, to the improper use of the free postage facilities available to members and senators. The Minister was asked on that occasion: 
Is the Minister aware of a letter that is being circulated to various councils in Victoria and, no doubt, other States, by a Councillor Healy of Fitzroy City Council on behalf of a group called Medibank Action Coalition and that this letter is being posted in a postage paid envelope restricted for the use of members of Parliament? If he is aware of this action will he undertake to call for an inquiry by the Commonwealth Police of the honourable member concerned? 
The Minister replied: 
I thank the honourable member for his question because if his information is correct, it is most disturbing to find that an honourable member of this House should be using or allowed to be used parliamentary postage paid envelopes for a purpose not connected with his own parliamentary business. I understand that the address provided by  Mr Healy  is 200 Lygon Street, Melbourne. I do not think any honourable member on our side of the House has his parliamentary office at that address. 
He went on, and concluded by saying: 
I will report it to  Senator Durack,  the Minister for Administrative Services, to see what inquiries are necessary to be undertaken. 
I am afraid that I have to draw attention to yet another abuse by the Australian Labor Party of the free postage facilities of members of Parliament. My electorate is adjacent to the State electorate of Mitcham where the Labor Party candidate is  Mr Michael  Shatin. To promote his candidature in the forthcoming State election,  Mr Shatin  has been posting out to the voters of his electorate mail which can be described only as party political campaign material. That mail is franked. As honourable members know, a franking imprint carries a number. The machine with the number imprinted on  Mr Shatin  's mail is issued to  Senator Evans,  a Labor Party senator. So once again the public is paying for Labor Party propaganda to be sent through the mail. 
There can be only two possible explanations for this. The first alternative is that the franking machine has been stolen. That, of course, is one explanation. The second alternative is that  Senator Evans  has improperly allowed that franking machine to be used by  Mr Shatin,  for it is no part of  Senator Evans'  parliamentary dudes to allow his franking machine facilities to be used to send out Labor Party propaganda. I would certainly be interested to know which of the two explanations is correct. 
The Commonwealth Police should investigate the first alternative and the Minister for Administrative Services should investigate the second alternative. The electors are entitled to know whether there has been any misappropriation of public funds by this means and how extensive it is, if there has been any such misappropriation. I have noticed on some occasions that some Labor Party people are great ones for talking about constitutional reform and propriety in government. When it comes to basic honesty in dealing with public money, some of them are sadly lacking. 
-Has the Minister for Defence seen reports of a recent speech made by  Dr Robert  O'Neill of the Australian National University in which  Dr O'Neill  made some highly disturbing remarks concerning Australia's defence preparedness? Has any assessment been made of  Dr O'Neill's  remarks and, if so, according to that assessment was he correct in the remarks that he made? 
If anyone had any doubts about the intentions of the Australian Labor Party with respect to the introduction of a capital gains tax before the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  spoke in the debate, those doubts must now be put at rest. The honourable member made it plain- I give him full marks for his open and candid concession- that a Labor Government would introduce a substantial capital gains tax at the earliest opportunity. As one reason for that he advanced the fact that the United Kingdom has a capital gains tax. I would have thought that that was a good reason for not introducing a capital gains tax. We should look at the way in which incentive has been taxed so heavily in that country with the consequent economic difficulties that face it. This much must be clear now: The intention of the Labor Party is to introduce a capital gains tax. The only additional remark I make about that subject is that although the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  seems to have been saying that the tax would start at a capital gain of about $200,000, the honourable member who has just spoken in the debate has cut that figure in half and has said that the capital gains tax would start at $ 100,000. Presumably, the amount will come down. The Australian people should be warned at this early stage that if the Labor Party ever came to government in this country again, there would be a very real risk that it would seek to introduce a capital gains tax. 
I return to the subject matter of the Bill which is presently before the Parliament. The first point that strikes me about the debate we have had today is that there has been such an air of piety and righteousness about it that honourable members could be excused for thinking that they were in church rather than in the national Parliament. It seems that everyone hates what we call the tax dodger. Everyone hates those people who arrange their affairs in such a way within the law to lessen the incidence of taxation falling on them. Let us look at the realities of the matter. Of course, there are people who will and doprobably they always will- arrange their affairs in such a way within the law that the incidence of taxation falls on them more lightly than it otherwise would. But instead of abusing them, instead of abusing the system and instead of calling for the banning of things such as advertisements for tax avoidance schemes, we would much more profitably spend our time if we asked: Why is it that so many of the best brains in the country and so much of the effort of professional people in this country are put into schemes which are designed to lessen the incidence of their income and company tax? The reason for it is plain. The rates of taxation are so high that many people are forced into a position in which they must take steps that they would otherwise not take to lessen the burden of taxation imposed on them. 
There are so many people in the community today- professional people, business people and ordinary average wage earners such as skilled tradesmen- who are bearing such a heavy burden of taxation that they are forced to adopt what are in many cases devices and in other cases quite legitimate re-arrangements of their affairs to reduce the burden of taxation on them. They do this because if they did not embark upon such a course they would be crippled financially. There are many professional and business people who now do not work a full week. There are many people who will not invest in businesses, who will not expand their businesses, who will not take on new employees and generally will not contribute to the expansion of commerce and industry in this country because there are no longer rewards for them in doing that. The reason there is no reward or a very slight reward is mainly the taxation system. 
I put it to the House that instead of pointing the finger at people who re-arrange their affairs so that the burden of tax imposed on them is lower than it otherwise would have been, we should recognise that the reason so much effort goes into schemes designed to lessen the tax burden today and so many brains are directed at this objective is due to the heavy burden of taxation. This Government itself has sought to lessen the burden of taxation and I commend it for that, but our continuous objective should be to reduce substantially the burden of tax in this country. I believe that it is a reasonable expectation that a lot of the effort that presently goes into tax avoidance and tax lessening schemes would evaporate as the tax rate was reduced. I should like to direct some remarks to the Bill which is presently before the House. I do not want to go into a detailed analysis of some of the complex and intricate provisions contained in this Bill. I do want however to try - 
-I beg your pardon. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member will address the Chair. 
-Honourable members will recall that earlier in this debate the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  referred to a letter that appeared in the  Financial Review  of 20 February written by  Mr A.  P. Webb, Q.C. and  Dr I.  C. F. Spry. That letter pointed to a number of problems with respect to this Bill. It pointed to a number of provisions in this Bill which the authors of the letter suggested should be looked at again and altered and improved. The honourable member for Denison read out half of the letter and that, of course, appears in  Hansard.  If I may I want to read the additional few paragraphs of the letter because it goes on to point out some additional problems with respect to the drafting of this Bill which I would hope the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  would take account of. I hope also that the Commissioner of Taxation, when he is administering the Bill when it becomes an Act, will also bear in mind the remarks that have been made.  Mr Webb  and  Dr Spry  continue their comments by saying: 
Thirdly, the provisions of ss. 99b and 99c would, if enacted, enable multiple assessments of income to take place in certain circumstances, so that several taxpayers could in the one situation be assessed cumulatively in regard to the same trust income. 
Accordingly, particular trust income could bear substantially more than 100 per cent tax in varying situations. 
Fourthly, the definition of 'reimbursement agreement' in s. 100a is unreasonably wide, and this provision would if enacted penalise taxpayers in a large number of situations where no attempt is made to rely upon witnesses in the Act. 
Inadequate protection is given by sub-s. (13), since that sub-section does not apply to, for example, commercial dealing which is not 'ordinary'. 
That word 'ordinary ' is taken from the Bill itself. They continue: 
It is impossible to avoid the conclusion that the provisions of the Bill have not been given sufficient consideration or scrutiny and that it should not be proceeded with in its present form. 
I would not go so far as to say that the Bill should not be proceeded with in its present form. I merely draw the attention of the House- as did the honourable member for Denison- to the fact that there are what would appear to be defects in the drafting of the legislation. I believe that the Treasurer should have regard to those defects. They are, at least in one case which I will mention in a moment, defects which may well defeat the revenue. In other words, the Government may not achieve what it hopes to achieve by this Bill. So in fact we are doing the Government a favour in drawing its attention to errors in the legislation that perhaps could be rectified to ensure that these particular tax avoidance schemes are blocked. 
To direct a few brief remarks to some of the specific matters referred to by  Mr Webb  and  Dr Spry,  may I refer initially to proposed new section 82KJ. That seems to contain a particular problem as far as I can see. That problem is that proposed new section 82KJ, which is endeavouring to stop the device related to pre-payments of interest and pre-payments of rent and other outgoings, states in part: 
. the amount of the loss or outgoing was greater than the amount (if any) that might reasonably be expected to have been incurred . . . 
When legislation contains a provision like that I think a warning light should be flashed. What it means in this case is that the Commissioner or  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation will make assessments of what a particular loss or outgoing should have been. When public servants and particularly the Commissioner of Taxation have the opportunty to make their own assessments of commercial transactions, in effect to rewrite commercial transactions and dealings between citizens, that is a situation we should be wary of. I am not suggesting for the moment that this legislation should not proceed because it gives a wide discretionary power to the Commissioner. I am merely drawing attention to the fact that we continue to pass legislation which increases the discretionary power given to the Commissioner of Taxation and that that is something that we should be very wary of. 
The second point to note about new section  82KJ  is that it would appear that it is the whole of the loss or outgoing that is disallowed and not only the excessive part- if one likes to call it that- which arises by virtue of there being a tax avoidance agreement. I suppose some people might say: 'Well, you should not have too much sympathy for people engaging in this activity which is after all a form of avoiding income tax.' To some extent that view is correct. But I put it that if the objective of the exercise is to prevent an excessive loss or outgoing being allowed as a taxation deduction, really the only reasonable position to take is that it should only be that excessive part of the loss or outgoing which should be disallowed and not the whole of the loss or outgoing. In other words, the excessive claim that comes as a result of taking part in a tax avoidance agreement should be disallowed but not the entire loss or outgoing. That is something to which I hope the Treasurer will have regard now that it has been drawn to his attention. 
Without taking any time to discuss it, the second matter at which I hope the Treasurer would have another look at some stage is proposed new section 100a. I hope in particular that he would look at the definition of 'reimbursement agreement' and then the definition of 'agreement' itself. I might say that it is a strange form of drafting to have a definition of reimbursement agreement and subsequent to that a definition of agreement but I leave the peculiarity of the drafting to one side and say merely that the provisions which are contained in this Bill, because of the very broad definitions that are given there, are such that they may well have to be re-examined at a later stage. I merely draw attention to those definitions and to the comments made by  Mr Webb  and  Dr Spry  in their letter with respect to those definitions. 
Thirdly, I emphasise that there is once again a danger in increasing the discretionary power which is given to the Commissioner of Taxation. It is a discretion which has to be exercised properly and one would hope that it is a discretion that would be exercised widely. But we must make sure that the law is clear and that the taxpayers know the limits of the law to which they can go to organise their affairs to reduce the burden of income tax on them, if that is their objective. They are the only specific matters to which I wanted to refer but I want to return very briefly to the initial point I made. This seems to apply not only to Australia but is something which is quite common in most countries with which we like to compare ourselves. I refer to the continuous taxation burden on productive people in the community and the effect that taxation burden has on the expansion of industry and commerce and on the contribution of people who can make a real contribution to the community. Incentive is undoubtedly being sapped by the present taxation burden. I venture to suggest as I have before that the solution to many of the Government's economic problems is to reduce the taxation burden very substantially indeed; not only would that have the result of taking away the need of people to engage in activities designed to reduce their level of income tax, but also it would act as a positive incentive to people to go out and to invest, to start businesses, to expand businesses, to employ people and to contribute to the overall wealth of the country. 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I remind him that for some time there has been criticism from some quarters of the investment allowance as being an undesirable taxation incentive on the ground that, amongst other things, it encourages investment in machinery and adversely affects employment. I ask the Prime Minister whether that criticism ever has been valid and whether it is valid today. I ask him whether the Crawford Committee said anything about the investment allowance which enables the Government to judge whether it is a desirable taxation measure to have. I also ask whether there is still a case for the investment allowance which we have today. 
There is no doubt that the conclusion reached by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  is the correct one to reach about this very difficult matter. I say that because although this Bill, presumably, will be passed, although an order will be made under the Bill when it becomes law, and although full force and effect will be given to that order, it is not going to solve, as I understand it, the immediate practical problem facing the Australian companies. The immediate practical problem will arise if they take assets, which more likely than not would be uranium, into the United States. In those circumstances the American courts would have the power to execute on those assets of the Australian companies in the United States. So the honourable member for St George is quite right when he says that this problem must be solved by top level negotiations between the American and Australian officials concerned. The problem itself will not be solved by the passage of this Bill, or orders being made under the legislation when it becomes law. 
I did intend to speak at some length about some of the problems in respect of this Bill but,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you will be relieved to know that I have changed my mind. I merely want, for two reasons, to draw the problems to the attention of the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who represents the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  in this chamber. I raise these matters, firstly, so that they will be borne in mind if similar legislation is contemplated in the future and, secondly, so that they will be borne in mind when the AttorneyGeneral is making orders under this law when it becomes an Act. The first of those matters is that it is curious that the Australian companies, the defendants in the American action, did not enter an appearance in the American courts. They could have entered a conditional appearance, as I understand it, or they could have entered an appearance under protest. The second matter is that, having done so, they could have argued their jurisdictional point before the American courts. If they had followed that course the problem may have been resolved at that early stage- if they had been successful in the argument. If they had not been successful in that argument, they would then have been in the position in which they ran the risk that the American company, the Westinghouse Electric Corporation, would have endeavoured to register its judgment in Australia and execute upon that judgment in Australia. 
As I understand it, even that would not have been the end of the world for the Australian companies because they could have easily argued in the Australian courts that the American court had not the power to adjudicate on the issues that were before the American court. In other words, the jurisdictional argument that they raise now could have been raised in the Australian courts if and when the contest was resolved in the Australian courts.  Sir Zelman  Cowen has written on this subject in a work entided  Bilateral Studies in Private International Law.  Before those involved in these proceedings go any further, I suggest that they have regard to what  Sir Zelman  Cowen wrote in that work. I instance one thing he wrote in that work. At page 80 he said: 
Common law permits of a defence to an action on a foreign judgment on the ground that the rendering court - 
That is, the court where the order was made-  lacked jurisdiction. 
In other words,  Sir Zelman  Cowen is saying, as I understand it, that the claim that the American court had no jurisdiction over this matter could easily have been raised and argued, perhaps successfully, in the Australian courts when the matter came before the Australian courts. 
I turn, again briefly, to the next matter to which we must have regard. Even if things got to the last desperate stage where Westinghouse obtained a judgment, had it registered in Australia and sought to execute upon that judgment in Australia, it would not necessarily mean that it would be able to take the proceeds back to the United States of America. Clearly Westinghouse would want to satisfy itself about the prospects of returning to the United States with the fruits of its victory before it proceeded to register its judgment here and execute it.  Sir Zelman  Cowen, in the work to which I have already referred, pointed to the practical problem with which an American company in the position of Westinghouse is faced. It is faced with the problem of exchange control. There is power under the Banking Act and the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations, as he points out, for the Government, in effect through the Reserve Bank, to prevent the proceeds of a judgment being remitted overseas. The company would be faced with that problem and presumably it would not seek to execute the judgment in Australia until it was satisfied about that matter. 
I suppose, and I hope, that someone has turned his attention to whether this Bill legislates in areas which are within the power of the Commonwealth. I assume that those concerned with it have done that. In fact, the Bill is so studded with references to the trade and commerce power and the power relating to trading or financial corporations that I presume that that is an attempt to found the jurisdiction or the power of the Commonwealth to pass this law. I merely draw attention to this aspect because if it has not been looked at it certainly should be looked at. More particularly, I note that the Bill seeks to have the effect that the judgment is not to be recognised or enforced in Australia. Honourable members will notice that the Bill does not use the words 'in the Territories of Australia' but rather in Australia'. I frankly do not know how the Commonwealth can make a foreign judgment unenforceable in the States. I ask the question: 
Can it prevent a State Supreme Court from registering the judgment under State legislation? Perhaps it can, perhaps it cannot. But at least that is an issue to which I trust people have turned their minds. It may become a real, practical problem in the future. At the least this should warn us to be more cautious about making orders under this provision of the Bill when it becomes an Act. 
I turn now to the last matter to which I wish to refer. It is not directly related to the precise terms of this Bill. It seems to me that a serious attempt should be made to facilitate the registration of foreign judgments, to make it easier to remove them from one country to another and to have them registered, enforced or executed here as the case may be. Anyone who has been involved in a case concerning the registration and execution of a foreign judgment knows how difficult it is. It is terribly complex, long, expensive and extremely difficult to do. The European Economic Community countries have turned their minds and their intelligence to this problem and to some extent, as I understand it, they have solved it. We should do likewise because the Commonwealth Act- the Service and Execution of Process Acland the Acts operating in each of the six States are complicated and difficult to enforce. So there is a real need for an urgent attempt to be made to rectify the cumbersome law relating to the registration and enforcement of foreign judgments. I hope that the Government will give its attention to that problem. 
-I ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs: Has his attention been drawn to the concern of the Victorian Football League that the Trade Practices Act has been invoked in a dispute regarding the clearance of three footballers? Is there not a danger that the use of the Trade Practices Act will have a damaging effect on sport in general and on Australian Rules football in particular? Was it ever the intention that the dead hand of the Trade Practices Act should intrude into sport as well as into business? Will the Minister give consideration to having the Trade Practices Act amended to exclude sporting organisations from the provisions of the Act? 
Listening to the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  one would be excused for thinking that this Bill abolishes the Public Service. In fact, on the fairest interpretation of the Bill that I can give it, it gives even more benefits to the Public Service than it had before the Bill was introduced. There are two specific areas. If the Leader of the Opposition would look at the Bill a little more closely he would see that this is the case. The first of those additional benefits is a cash payment on severence in those circumstances set out under the Bill in addition to- and I emphasise 'in addition to'- the public servants' rights under the Superannuation Act. The second benefit, of course, is the right of appeal to which public servants were not entitled previously. The Bill does not touch the impartiality of the Public Service. It does not touch the independence of the Public Service. It does not do any of the other dreadful things that the Leader of the Opposition sought to impute to the legislation. 
Two basic principles should be borne in mind when looking at the Bill. The first of these basic principles is that no one at all doubts the importance of the Public Service and the importance of the valuable work that it does. The Public Service performs a valuable function and the public servant should have, and indeed does have, reasonable terms and conditions of employment. That is the first basic principle. The second basic principle is that public servants cannot reasonably expect to have terms and conditions of employment which are substantially better than those prevailing in private employment. By virtue of the very nature of their position, they already have permanency of employment and they will retain permanency of employment even after this Bill becomes law. Of course, in addition to permanency, as a general rule they have now terms and conditions of employment which are better than those generally prevailing in private employment. 
It used to be the case that in return for permanency, which was the basic feature of Public Service employment, public servants were prepared to accept and willingly accepted the terms and conditions which in some cases were not so generous as those that could be obtained in private employment. Of course, the reason they were prepared to accept those terms and conditions was that permanency was such a valuable feature of employment. Not for the public servant were the rigours of working in an industry where his employment was subject to the whimand it was very little more than a whim- of the employer. Not for the public servant was the need to work in an area of employment that had to produce profits before the employment could continue. The public servant had permanency of employment. He had a long term career prospect. In return for that he accepted salaries and terms and conditions of employment which, in many cases, were not so generous as those which he could obtain in private employment, without permanency of employment. 
Over the years the situation has evolved that the public servant by and large now has both benefits. He still has permanency of employment and will retain permanency of employment even after this Bill becomes law. In addition, he or she has terms and conditions of employment which in many ways are better than those which prevail in private employment. The honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie),  who spoke before me, listed some of those terms and conditions of employment. There is no need for me to repeat them. Suffice it to say that in many areas of employment in the outside world, in private employment, the general terms and conditions are not so generous as those which are presently available to the public servant. 
With those general principles in mind, what does the Bill provide? For the answer to that question I refer to the statement recently issued by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner).  Firstly, the Bill provides for voluntary early retirement after the age of 55. Secondly, it provides for the identification of staff who are described as being eligible for redeployment because of any of three circumstances. Those circumstances are that they are excess to requirements; that they are physically or mentally incapable of performing their duties; or  any other prescribed reason '. Of course, we have what is now popularly known as management initiated retirement. Thirdly, the Bill provides for redeployment by the Public Service Board. Fourthly, it provides for retirement by the permanent head of the department or the prescribed statutory authority where the Public Service Board has certified that it cannot redeploy the public servant concerned. 
Fifthly, the legislation introduces the right of appeal that I mentioned before. Staff have a right of appeal separately against each of the identification of eligibility for redeployment, the redeployment action taken itself, and decisions that redeployment is not practicable. So an extensive right of appeal is introduced by this legislation. It is an additional right which, of course, was not available previously to public servants and which is not, even today, available to employees in private employment. The sixth matter with which the Bill deals is the golden handshake. It provides for an additional payment over and above the payments to which the public servant is entitled under the Superannuation Act. I quote from the statement on this matter by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. He said: 
Retirement at management initiative can take place at any age, but a special benefit applies to those retired 'for any other prescribed reason ' between the ages of 55 and 60. It is the Government's intention to pay a special benefit additional to that already provided to eligible staff under the Superannuation Act 1 976, equivalent to 2 months ' salary for each year of service forgone below the age of 60, ie at age 55 years 10 months' salary ranging to 2 months' salary at age 59 years. 
They are the substantial provisions that are contained in the Bill. Bearing in mind those substantial provisions, it seems to me that three questions arise about the Bill and the Opposition's reluctance to accept the legislation. Firstly, why is there any opposition to redeployment on the grounds that the number of employees is excess to requirements? Why is there opposition to an objection on such a rational ground? That provision can be opposed only by those who believe that the Public Service can have and should have excess numbers of employees over and above the numbers that departments need- in fact, more than they need to operate efficiently and more than they need to operate economically. That is the only basis upon which there could possibly be an objection to redeployment on that ground. Of course, that highlights the enormous difference between public employment and private employment. The reason why that is so is that in private employment a private employer or a company cannot operate if there are excess numbers of employees over and above those needed to perform the tasks required and over and above those needed to operate profitably. That is the essential difference between public employment and private employment. 
The second question which arises- frankly I am lost as to any answer to this question- is: Why is there opposition to redeployment on the grounds of physical and mental incapacity? One would have thought that it is common management experience that if an employee has a physical or mental incapacity, clearly his or her employment must come to an end. Obviously one does not disregard the interests of the individual. It is expected in a civilised society that he or she must be taken care of by some form of payment or social welfare benefit. However, there is no justification whatsoever for continuing the employment of a person who is physically or mentally incapable of performing the task concerned. 
The third question which arises is: Why is there Opposition to redeployment on the ground which is referred to as 'any other prescribed reason'? Why is there this opposition to the situation which may well arise when this Bill becomes law of a department in effect saying: 'We have numbers which are excess to requirements' or: 'The employee concerned does not have a licence which he needs to perform his task or he is otherwise unsuitable for employment'? Two points arise: In the limited number of cases -where this provision is implemented when the Bill becomes law it will do no more than subject the public servant to the same obligations as those that exist in private employment presently. In the first place, it will operate in very few cases. Secondly, it will do no more than subject the public servant to those exact same obligations as those to which employees in private employment are subjected. 
Equally importantly, in many cases the person in private employment is subject to far more stringent restrictions than those applying in public employment. Of course, the private employer does not have to prescribe any reasons for dismissal. He does not have to make a declaration of the grounds on which he will dismiss employees in the future as the Public Service will be obliged to do under this legislation. There is no need for the private employer to do that. He is not obliged to do it. He may dismiss people for no reason at all. He may bring the relationship of employer and employee to an end for no reason other than the fact that he wants to. Of course he is subject to no burdens whatsoever other than the fact that he must give notice and he must pay out the period of notice until it expires. 
There is a feature of this whole issue which has been overlooked frequently in this debate and that is that the vast majority of Australian men and women- three out of four employees- work in the private sector. They do not work for the Public Service and they are not entitled to the still generous provisions of employment that exist in public service in Australia. The ordinary men and women of Australia, the employees of Australia, whom the Labor Party pretends it represents in this place, work in relationships with their employers subject, in effect, to what on many occasions is little more than the whim of the employer. Not for them the situation where the production of the company or the employer must continue to increase to enable the employment relationship to continue. Not for the employee in private employment the protection of prescribed grounds before redeployment can be introduced or before the relationship of employer and employee comes to an end. Not for the employees in private employment this right  of appeal which the public servant has. Not for them the two months' pay for every unserved year up to age 60. 
They get none of those benefits whatsoever and therein lie the two great benefits which, under this legislation, are conferred on public servants. First of all, public servants have a right of appeal. This of course is a right of appeal in effect against dismissal. It is well to bear in mind that it is a right of appeal which is not available to three out of four employees in Australia. It is a tremendous benefit which is available to members of the Commonwealth Public Service but which is not available to employees in private employment. The second very considerable benefit which employees in public employment have under this legislation is the payment of two months' salary for every unexpired year of employment after the age of 55 years. There is no entitlement to this in private employment. There is no equivalent entitlement to it in private employment other than the obligation to give notice. 
Let us just face the harsh reality of the situation. An employee in the building industry, for example, may be employed today but he may be given an hour's notice. That is the term of his employment- one hour. He may be given an hour's notice and thereafter be dismissed. He does not receive a cent. But one does not hear members of the Labor Party protesting in this chamber about that situation. What one hears them protesting about is a situation under which, after this cumbersome procedure in the Bill has been gone through, the public servant has his employment terminated, he gets the right of appeal, which as I say, the ordinary employee in Australia does not get and he gets a payment for two months of every unexpired year and of course he gets payments under the Superannuation Act. No private employee gets any of those benefits unless he has a specific contract with his employer. The vast majority of the ordinary workers in Australia have none of those rights whatsoever. It is extraordinary that we should have this situation here where the Labor Party is opposing this Bill, which in effect gives benefits to the public servants. Yet the Opposition does not raise any objection whatsoever to the very stringent conditions to which employees in private employment are still subject in Australia. 
-The debate on the Supply Bill provides an opportunity for me to draw attention to a practice of the Commissioner of Taxation which should be given some scrutiny. I intend to make some remarks about this practice later in my speech. However, it would be remiss of me to overlook the opportunity of a debate on a Supply Bill to make some comments on the economic and related problems that are presently facing Australia. I want to take a few minutes to look at some of those problems. There is no doubt, when we look at the major economic indicator, that is the inflation rate, that there has been a substantial improvement since the present Government came into office. When one looks at the other economic indicators, one finds substantial improvements. However, there are still very severe economic problems facing this country. The major area, of course, is that of unemployment. Unemployment in Australia, we all concede, is high. It is too high. We should ask the basic question, insofar as we are able to answer it ourselves, why is this so? 
The real answer, I believe, is unpalatable to many people, but it is still the real answer. It is now too expensive for employers to employ people in the same numbers in which they could be employed in the past. It is equally unpalatable to many people, but equally true, that employers will employ and will increase their number of employees when it is productive and profitable to do so. That is an unpalatable fact, but it is true. We have lost sight of this truth. I believe that when we return to this truth and when we have a sensible wages policy that will flow from an appreciation of that truth, which is unpalatable to many people, then we will have a substantial improvement in the employment position in Australia. We will not have it until we come back to an appreciation of that basic principle and until we have a wages policy that flows from it. 
The Australian Labor Party's answer to the problem is no answer at all. The Government says: 'Put people on the government payroll, hand out subsidies to employers so that they will take more employees on and increase government expenditure so that people will have to be employed'. That will not work, just as it has not worked in other countries that have tried that sort of solution. All that it means is that the productive people in the community will pay more through their income tax to support what will be an increasingly unproductive system. There are no short cuts like those proposed by the Labor Party. We must appreciate that that is so. 
In addition to the simple truth that I have put forward, there is, of course, another obstacle to the expansion of business and commerce. If the expansion took place it would increase the number of employment opportunities in Australia. That obstacle of course- it is almost a cliche these days to say so- is the taxation, system. It is equally true to say that the taxation system is still a major obstacle to the expansion opportunities in Australia. I read recently in the  Economist  a statement about the British taxation system. Because that system has, in so many areas, a remarkable parallel to the Australian tax situation, I think it would do us well to consider what the  Economist  has said about taxation. It stated: 
The case for raising the British income tax threshhold and reducing the confiscatory top marginal tax rates is now overwhelming. The British pattern of taxation, with its distortions, its complex jungle of permissible avoidances allowances and reliefs, deadens individual effort and enterprise; it lures the best brains into taking congenial jobs in academic life or the civil service instead of making or selling things; it is complicated and costly to collect; it encourages a mushrooming alternative economy in which honest taxpayers are derided as fools, and the others either get away with it or emigrate. 
There are many parallels, of course, between that statement and the present Australian taxation system. It is equally true in Australia as it is in Britain that the rates of taxation and the way in which the taxation system has been implemented, and is implemented, does, to use the words of the  Economist  'deaden effort and incentive. ' Of course, the inexorable system goes on. As the taxation system saps the spirit of individual effort, initiative, self-help, self-reliance and the incentive to expand and go into business and thereby create job opportunities we all come to rely on governments and what governments can do. Eventually we get into the psychological situation where we are just too reliant on governments and what governments can do. What is the result of that? The result is that once again productive people in the economy are taxed more to support an increasingly unproductive system. 
The present Government has taken enormous steps, I believe, in reforming the taxation system not only in relation to the overall amount of tax which is received but also by a number of other very significant improvements. We should not forget the enormous progress which the Government has made in this area. The Government at the same time, has embarked on, I believe, a commendable assault on the more blatant tax avoidance methods that have been adopted over the last few years. 
There are, however, other areas where the tax system can be reformed. I mention just three of them. The first concerns division 7 taxation as it is known. I have never yet seen a sustained and logical defence of division 7 taxation. I really think it is time that the whole system is repealed. If it is repealed more money will be kept back in private companies. This will be used not, of course, for sitting on but for expansion. If we are concerned about unemployment this is one area to which we can direct funds for the creation of employment opportunities. 
The second reform that the Government can introduce is to allow for depreciation on industrial buildings. This reform, like the preceding one, was- as I am sure all honourable members know- put forward in a submission by the Metal Trades Industry Association recently. I commend that body for putting forward, amongst others, those two taxation reforms. The third reform which is long overdue is a complete redrawing of the Act. It could be made much more simple and it could certainly be made clearer. I venture to suggest that the result of the Acts being redrawn would be beneficial to the Government's operations in this field. They are just some basic matters that arise concerning the present economic situation. I think that we should get back to the basic understanding of what creates employment and find ways to improve the employment situation. 
I turn now to a particular practice of the Commissioner of Taxation. As I said earlier, attention should be drawn to it. It raises the very vexed question of the discretion which the Commissioner has and the methods by which he exercises his discretion. The matter arises from the provisions of section 67A of the Income Tax Assessment Act. That section allows a taxation deduction for expenditure paid on the discharge of a mortgage. Several highly artificial schemes were promoted during 1978 - I do not defend them; I merely make the simple statement of fact that a number of schemes were promoted in 1 978- to take advantage of that deduction which is allowed under section 67a. The common feature of the schemes was that a taxpayer borrowed money and gave some security to the lender for the loan. Borrowed moneys were then utilised in earning assessable income for the taxpayer who then arranged for the lender to release the security in consideration for payment of a substantial amount, usually an amount equal to one-half of the amount borrowed. A deduction under section  67a  was claimed by the taxpayer for the amount paid to secure the release or discharge of the mortgage given by him as security for the repayment of the money which he had borrowed. Afterwards the taxpayer would be released from his obligation to repay the principal sum in consideration of the taxpayers paying some amount less than the principal sum, say, one-half of the principal sum. 
The Commissioner obtained information from taxpayers regarding those participants in the schemes who were seeking to take advantage of the provisions of section 67a. He obtained that information from the promoters of the schemes. Having discovered who were the participants in those schemes- again I say I am not defending the scheme- the Commissioner notified each taxpayer who participated in a scheme that he was required within 14 days to lodge his return for the year ended 30 June 1 978. This was done notwithstanding the previous practice of the Commissioner to give generous extensions of time for lodgment of returns and notwithstanding, as I understand it, that the Commissioner may have already given those persons an extension of time within which to lodge their returns. The Commissioner prosecuted some of those who did not lodge a return within the time required by his notice and assessed substantial additional tax for failure to lodge a return within the time required by his notice. Again, this is contrary to the usual practice of the Commissioner to be somewhat lenient in relation to trivial omissions to comply with notices requiring lodgment of returns within a specified time. 
In assessing a person who participated in the schemes, the Commissioner disallowed any claim for a deduction under section  67A.  I have already explained how that worked. The Commissioner also assessed taxpayers who participated in the schemes to additional tax at 50 per cent of the amount of tax which the taxpayer attempted to avoid by claiming the deduction under section  67A.  It is very difficult to see how this assessment of additional tax could possibly be justified, though doubtless the Commissioner, when challenged, would claim that the taxpayer participating in the scheme included in his return as a deduction, for expenditure incurred by him an amount in excess of the expenditure actually incurred by him. It appears the Commissioner is imposing the additional tax in an attempt to deter taxpayers from entering into tax avoidance schemes in the future. I suggest that that is not the role of the Commissioner of Taxation. 
The imposition of additional tax in similar circumstances was recently discussed by  Mr Justice  Smith of the Supreme Court of Western 
Australia in a case called Cyprus Mines Corporation and the Federal Commissioner of Taxation.  Mr Justice  Smith held that the Commissioner was incorrect in imposing additional tax under section 226 on the facts of the case before him. The judge held that the part of the section dealing with overstating deductions applies only where a taxpayer includes as a deduction expenditure which is not incurred or overstates the amount claimed as a deduction. He held that it has no operation where the sum claimed by the taxpayer to be deductible is in fact expended, but there is a dispute as to whether the expenditure as a matter of law gives rise to an allowable deduction within the provisions of the Act. Although this is a technical subject, as I have said, it raises this very vexed issue of the discretion of the Commissioner of Taxation and how he exercises that discretion. This is one case where I believe that that discretion has not been exercised properly. 
Finally,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and for only a few minutes, may I take your mind back to this afternoon when in the debate on this Bill the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  made a very significant address on the issue of Vietnamese refugees. The raving lunatic who followed him in the debate was extremely critical of the speech made by the honourable member for Perth on that subject. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond) The honourable member for Diamond Valley will withdraw those remarks. 

 -Indeed, Mr Deputy Speaker. The words used by the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  were very extreme. I think any reasonable observer would agree that he used very extreme language in his reply to the honourable member for Perth. I merely want to put on record the fact that the Labor Party when in office had the opportunity to face up to the reality of Vietnamese refugees. That opportunity arose towards the end of the Vietnam war when the Labor Government was faced with the issue of whether we would allow to come to Australia Vietnamese refugees who, until the end of the war, had in fact worked for the Australian Government. The issue was whether we would allow them to come here. The 
Prime Minister at the time,  Mr Whitlam,  adopted a quite hostile attitude towards allowing those unfortunate people to come to Australia. He said, and it is as well that we remember this, that we do not want Asian 'Baits' in Australia. We must remember that at that time the Labor Party had an opportunity to deal with the vexed problem of Vietnamese refugees and that its response to allowing those unfortunate people to seek a new life in Australia was completely hostile. 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service matters. What is the extent of compliance today with the strike call directed to public servants by some of the Public Service unions? 
-Why not wait for the answer? Is it the fact that public servants now have the best of both worlds, namely, permanency of employment and terms and conditions of employment in many cases better than those enjoyed by the three-quarters of the work force in private employment? Has it not always been the understanding that in return for those benefits public servants will refrain from strike action? If that is no longer the case so far as the unions are concerned, what is now the justification for permanency of employment? If there is no longer such justification, will permanency of employment for the Public Service be retained? 
Tonight I wish to refer to an aspect of the plight of Vietnamese refugees which came to my attention a few days ago and which is worthy of notice by the House. Perhaps I should start bv saying that these remarks may well apply to all refugees coming to Australia and not just to Vietnamese refugees. Many refugees are initially housed in hostels and their first two objectives are, of course, to find a house or flat and to find employment. Being for the most part diligent people they quickly find employment. However, being also very destitute, the costs involved in finding accommodation make that task a very difficult one. Accordingly, they often find themselves in the position of the refugees I came across recently, namely who had jobs but were obliged financially to continue living in the migrant hostel. 
From that situation arose their first predicament, that is, they had to leave the hostel so early in the morning to travel to work that they left before the dining room or cafeteria was open and therefore could not have their breakfast there. By the time they arrived back at the hostel at night the dining room had closed and they went to bed without having had the evening meal. These people lived on bread for some weeks. Not surprisingly, some of them were so affected by this travelling without nourishment that they dropped from exhaustion and had to give up their jobs. My point is that it should not be beyond the wit of the authorities in charge of the hostels to stagger or extend the hours of the dining room so that refugees who have to travel to and from their jobs during existing meal hours are able to eat their meals at the hostel and sustain themselves. Surely that must be a reasonable request. Migrant hostels should be run to encourage people to work, not to deter them from working. 
The second problem for refugees is finding accommodation. In the case of at least some refugees this accommodation is most likely to be a housing commission flat or home. However, in the cases that I came across recently the people were penniless yet they were faced with having to pay to State instrumentalities installation charges for gas and electricity and even stamp duty on leases. In other cases they have to pay rent in advance and a bond and, of course, they do not have the money to do so. The Commonwealth provides some money for settlement assistance but the money does not go far enough. The result is that some refugees cannot raise the money for these charges. They must stay in the hostel, try to work without meals, as I have already said, and hope that eventually after probably some months of this agony they will be able to raise the money. I hope that the State governments will make the simple gesture of waiving the charges for connecting gas and electricity and the cost of the stamp duty and bonds and will at least defer the requirement for the payment of rent in advance. Surely the State governments could make this gesture to help these unfortunate people to become established and to ease the burden on them, which is much more than I suspect many of us can imagine. 
I had occasion recently to draw to the notice of the City of Doncaster and Templestowe the fact that the privilege of receiving a share of personal income tax from the Federal Government carried with it the responsibility of spending the money wisely and refraining from lavish spending projects. It was necessary to tell the council of that municipality that it was lavish in the extreme to offer $40,000 per annum, in addition to a motor car and other privileges, to the chief administrator of the city, the position that we know is in substance that of a town clerk- $40,000 a year and upwards for a town clerk. 
Local government now receives a share of personal income tax to contribute to the performance of its functions. It should be remembered that those funds are taxpayers' funds and not merely ratepayers' funds. Although the funds are made available to local government to spend on its general purposes, it follows from the fact that the funds are general taxpayers' funds that local government owes an obligation to taxpayers as a whole to spend their money wisely and sensibly. Not only is that the case but local government should- I do not say that it can be compelledhave regard to the basic economic problems facing the country. It must be plain to any local councillor that one of the economic problems facing this country today is the inflationary effect of extravagant wage and salary increases. Extravagant and above award salaries are not the only causes of inflation, but who would deny that they are a major cause? If local government's own wage and salary structure becomes a pace setter that can only permeate through whole areas of employment. To use this case as an example, soon every town clerk will want the top entitlement established by the precedent. Eventually, comparisons are made and every one in a comparable position demands the levels set by the pacemaker. 
The whole evil of this type of wage pacesetting is that it becomes inbuilt into the cost structure of a community. It gives yet another boost to inflation. Let me illustrate just what sort of pace is being set here. The award salary in Victoria for a town clerk or senior administrator ranges from about $17,000 to about $29,000 per annum. But here is the City of Doncaster and Templestowe offering in excess of $10,000 a year above the maximum award salary. It then has the gall to say in its advertisement that any potential applicant need not be deterred from applying for the position merely because he feels he could command a salary higher than $40,000 a year. It also makes a spurious comparison with private enterprise and says that a high salary will have to be offered to attract the best person. The city forgets, as people often forget, that in private enterprise salaries and rewards are determined by profits, results and success. Local government, like all government, does not have to make a profit to determine what salaries are paid. It holds taxpayers funds on trust to provide a service for the people and do to so as economically as possible. 
Let us look briefly at just a few comparisons. The following officials receive a salary of less than $40,000 a year: the  Chairman  of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation; the  Chairman  of the Australian Dairy Industry Corporation; the  Chairman  of the Prices Justification Tribunal; the  Chairman  of the Trade Practices Commission; the Managing Director of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation, and the Public Service Arbitrator. Would anyone suggest that these office holders are not well remunerated? Would anyone suggest that they perform a less significant or less substantial role in the community than the town clerk of a municipality? The Federal Government cannot control local government, nor should it; but it can justly draw attention to the need for local government to use restraint, to act responsibly and to refrain from offering and paying extravagant salaries which can only take Australia further down the road of not paying its way. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industrial Relations. Are wages and incomes in Australia fixed on occasion by direct action in the market-place after a claim has been unsuccessful in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? If that is the case, what have been the consequences of such a series of events? Is there any likelihood of that practice being widened in Australia? 

 - Mr Deputy Leader- I am sorry,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I am preoccupied with leadership because I am not surprised, after having heard that speech by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  that  Mr Hawke  apparently described  Mr Hayden  at the recent Adelaide conference as a temporary leader. I can well understand him saying that in view of what we have just heard. It must be the greatest collection of rubbish one has ever heard in this Parliament. The most extraordinary point is that the Leader of the Opposition started off by saying that there was a difference between the Australian Council of Trade Union's policy on this matter and the Labor Party policy. That was an extraordinary thing to say. There is no doubt at all that all the Leader of the Opposition was trying to do was dissociate himself from the Halfpenny-Hayden axis which has now been established firmly in this matter. 
When we are considering the issues involved in this debate there are two basic elements that we should understand at the outset. Let us consider for a moment that the Government has just appropriated $3m for the Trade Union Training Authority, and it has just appropriated $3m or thereabouts for the Industrial Relations Bureau which spends almost all of its time pursuing the claims of unionists and other workers who may not be unionists and who have, together with the arbitration inspectorate in the last 12 months, recovered some $lm for workers. They have recovered this amount not for employers but for workers. When one considers that fact one is driven to accept that the Government is not antiunion at all. 
In a civilised and orderly industrial relations situation the Government recognises the importance of having responsible trade unions and having them responsibly managed for the benefit of the members of those unions. That is the first point that should be understood. The second point that should be clearly understood is that the Government is not at all opposed to- indeed, it advances- the cause of the working men and women of Australia. One has only to look at the way they vote. There are hundreds of thousands of ordinary working men and women in Australia who have voted for the Liberal and National Country parties and will continue to vote for them because they know that their interests are furthered and better served than they would be by the rabble that holds itself out as being the true representatives of the workers of Australia. They know that with business confidence, expansion of industry, commerce and business and with the prospect of investors obtaining some rewards from their investments, that jobs will be secure, that more jobs will be created and that the standard of living of the working men and women of Australia will be advanced. 
The working men and women of Australia know only too well that their interests are identical with the interests of an expanding and developing free enterprise society. It follows from that that the working men and women of Australia do not support the Labor Party which holds itself out as being their great advocate. Nor should they, because they know that in the first place the Labor Party established itself when it was in Government as being the unemployment expert of Australia. Secondly, they know that the Australian Labor Party policies hold no hope whatsoever for the expansion of business, industry or commerce which would lead to the creation of more job opportunities. The ordinary men and women of Australia know that if the Labor Party were returned to government, it would do nothing more than take this country down the same path as the Labour Party in the United Kingdom took, a path that was littered with the monuments of higher taxation, penalties on incentive, endorsement of union extremism, stand-over tactics and the dead hand of government which destroys job opportunities. The ordinary men and women of Australia know that of the Australian Labor Party. They also know that it will and can do nothing to protect individuals, individual unionists, from being dominated by particular trade unions and the stand-over tactics that some of them engage in. Nor could any reasonable person support the industrial relations policies of the Labor Party that were laid down at its Adelaide conference. 
We could stay here all night and pinpoint individual policies that were passed at that conference in Adelaide to illustrate that point. But let us briefly look at just five of them. Listen to the words of the first of those, and let us hear the Labor Party speakers who follow me in this debate tonight deny that this is their policy or deny that their policies have the consequences that I am about to suggest. The first policy I wish to refer to is this: 
The recognition of the rights of unions to regulate their own affairs in a democratic way, free - 
Mark these words-  from Government and judicial interference . . . 
That is no more than a charter for tyranny. There would be no hope under that policy, if implemented, for individuals to seek redress from the courts against injustices perpetrated by their trade unions. Indeed, it goes further than that, because there would be no opportunity to obtain redress from the courts on the part of the majority in a trade union. Judicial supervision and recourse to the courts are outlawed by Labor Party policy. Let members of the Labor Party deny that if that is not the case. The second policy that one should have regard to is this: 
Exempt unions from provisions of the Trade Practices Act. 
That is what they would do. They would make the corporations of capital subject to the Trade Practices Act and they would relieve the corporations of labour from the provisions of the Trade Practices Act. What does that policy mean? It means nothing more or less than an open invitation for black bans, secondary boycotts, picketing or any other unfair and restrictive activities that trade unions may wish to engage in. Who are harmed as a result of that? The people who are harmed are the individual workers in Australia. The employer is not harmed by that at all. He can accommodate that situation, but the individual worker cannot. Again he would be the innocent victim if that provision is legislated upon. 
-The third policy that one should have regard to - 
-No, I do not take exception to it, although I appreciate the respect of the Minister for Health in drawing your attention to it. The third policy that should be referred to is this: 
Recognise - 
Listen to this-  that the legitimate role of the trade unions is not limited to legally defined industrial matters. 
Under the Labor Party policy trade unions are not only to be immune from the judicial process but also will be able to engage in activities which are not industrial activities anyway. Presumably they will be able to do anything they wish and will be free from judicial supervision. That again is a charter for tyranny. The fourth policy that we should look at provides this: 
The Australian Parliament shall have the power with respect to the terms and conditions of employment and the terms and conditions of contractual relationships with independent contractors. 
I ask the question: How many workers in Australia know that the Australian Labor Party is proposing that the Federal Parliament should fix the terms and conditions of their employment and the terms and conditions of individual private contracts that they may enter into? I venture to suggest that very few workers in Australia know that that is what the Labor Party is after- is on about. It wants to intrude into the private employment and contractual arrangements of men and women of Australia in a way that Australia has never seen before. The fifth policy that I wish to refer to is probably the most interesting and sinister of all. Let me just read out the words. It is this: 
Securing the immunity of unions and their members from action for tort in respect of torts alleged to have been committed . . . 
I think it is important that members on both sides of the House listen to this-  by or on behalf of a trade union in contemplation or furtherance of a labour dispute excepting . . . 
There are then some exceptions introduced. That is the substantive provision- to make trade unions immune from the law. What are the exceptions? They are very generous exceptions indeed. Wilful acts that directly cause death are exempted. It is very generous of the Labor Party to exempt wilful acts that directly cause death. 
-As the honourable member for Holt has said, it is a form of mafia tactic. The exception states: 
. cause death or injury to persons, physical damage to property . . . 
What does that mean? It means that if a trade union official causes the death of someone- I did not write this, this is the Labor Party's termsand injures someone or if property is damaged there is no redress to obtain damages or any other relief unless the act was wilful. I have read this many times. I could not believe what I have just put to the House, but it does mean that, because they are the plain words of it. I have wondered how many wives of Australian working men know that if their husbands are killed or injured at a factory or in an office as a result of some industrial disputation, and there was no wilful act but it was only negligence that someone was killed or injured, they, then widows, are not entitled to any damages. If that is not the case I invite the Labor Party members who are to speak after me in this debate to deny it. That is a fair challenge. They are the precise words contained in Labor Party policy. The only thing that is exempt is a wilful act that leads to death. If a union official negligently kills someone there is no liability on him to pay damages to the widow or children of the worker. This is the policy of the party that holds itself out as the advocate for the working men and women of Australia. I say that its members are nothing but a lot of hypocrites. 
The purpose of the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Amendment Bill is to legislate to increase the proportion of personal income tax revenue available for local government, and that is a very desirable measure indeed. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said in his second reading speech: 
One of the aims of the Government's federalism policy is that State governments and local authorities should have maximum independence and flexibility in determining their priorities and carrying out their functions. Accordingly, the Government has placed emphasis on the provision of untied' funds to them through giving them access to a share of personal income tax revenue. 
This is a desirable piece of legislation not only in terms of the principle which it espouses but also because of the increase in the funds which will be available to the local councils after the passage of this legislation. The Treasurer mentioned in his second reading speech that the implementation of this legislation will mean an increase of no less than 23.6 per cent on the amount made available last year to local government under this personal income tax sharing scheme. Insofar as the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  is able to draw attention to what he maintains is a situation which is not as generous for local government as the Government asserts, I merely say in reply that that is certainly not the view of local government itself. I believe that the experience of all honourable members would be that the view of the local councils is that they are now in a much better financial position than they have been directly as a result of the income tax sharing schemes which this Government has introduced. 
For those reasons I support the Bill and the scheme which it implements because, as I have already said in passing, it cements the role of local government as a true partner in the federalism system. There are two important features of the scheme which deserve particular attention. The first feature is that the money made available under this scheme is provided for local government purposes. The money is not made available to be spent on other purposes but on local government purposes. They are the words from section 5 of the principal Act which implemented this scheme in 1976. Consequently if any money appropriated is not spent by local councils on local government purposes that would be a very serious matter indeed. The money has been appropriated for local government purposes and it is supposed to be spent on local government purposes. 
In my view it is quite reasonable to draw attention to any expenditure by local government authorities which is not expenditure on local government purposes. We do not wish to control local councils; in fact, we have no power to control them. But it is reasonable and appropriate that attention should be drawn to particular cases, if in fact expenditure is being made on non-local government purposes. That is the first feature that deserves particular attention. 
The second feature to which attention should be drawn is that the money involved is taxpayers' funds. They are not the normal funds of local government raised by the traditional means by which local government raises funds, namely, ratepayers' revenue. Rather they are funds which come from the general body of taxpayers' funds. Consequently, when local governments spend money appropriated under this scheme they should remember that they have a heavy obligation on them to spend it wisely. Why do they have that heavy obligation? They have it because they are dealing not only with the traditional sources of local government finance, namely ratepayers' funds levied on properties, but funds paid by the whole body of taxpayers in Australia. There is, therefore, as I say, a heavy obligation on councils to spend the funds wisely, conscious of the fact that what they are spending is taxpayers' money. 
When we look at those two features of the scheme we will see that there is the potential for a conflict. On the one hand, funds are being appropriated to local government in a form of untied grants to spend as they will on local government purposes, but on the other hand, there is an obligation- a clear obligation- on councils and other local government authorities to spend the money conscious of the fact that they are dealing with taxpayers' funds, money raised from the whole body of taxpayers in the country. There is, as I say, a potential for conflict there. I want to illustrate briefly by reference to one municipality in Victoria the manner in which that potential for conflict is manifested and takes on a really serious embodiment. The Council of the City of Doncaster and Templestowe in Victoria must be, I think, endeavouring to rival the Great Gatsby as being the last of the big spenders. It has just recently embarked on yet another extravagant program. It proposes to appoint a supremo to be called a chief executive officer, at a salary of $40,000 a year. 
-The honourable member for Mitchell asks in a tone of surprise, which I can well understand, how much. The answer is $40,000 a year, plus other perquisites. So it is really $40,000 a year plus perks for a supremo with the grand title of chief executive officer who, of course, is virtually a town clerk. One can register surprise at that and quite legitimately say: 'Is this reasonable for the council to spend what is, in effect, taxpayers' money on a new position of that nature at such an exalted salary?' Indeed, when one compares that salary with some of the other salaries being paid these days to quite senior public officers one can be, and is, even more surprised. Some of these officers include the  Chairman  of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation, the  Chairman  of the Australian Dairy Corporation, the  Chairman  of the Prices Justification Tribunal, the  Chairman  of the Trade Practices Commission, the Managing Director of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation and the Public Service Arbitrator. All of those office bearers receive salaries of less than $40,000 a year and they are all handling and are involved with enormous sums of money. Many of them have large staffs and the influence of their decisions, of course, is far more wideranging than decisions made by local councils and other local government authorities. This is an outrageous expenditure. It is extravagant. There is no justification for it. It is merely, I would suggest, an attempt by one council to take its activities quite beyond the range of traditional local government activities and into the twilight zone of some very new and rarified fields which have hitherto not been the proper province of local government. Indeed, it is unfortunate when one sees a council spending money on that sort of activity, when, as is the case with this municipality, it cannot even perform its normal municipal functions properly. 
As I say, this is an outrageous waste of money. Any local council now receiving funds under this scheme should be prepared to accept that sort of criticism and reply to it as a matter of substance. It can, of course, say that it is receiving untied grants and that it can spend the money as it wishes. But with the scheme that we have it is only fair and reasonable that reasonably balanced criticism of that sort of expenditure can be made of a local government council which engages in that sort of activity. It is up to the council then, of course, to reply and defend its position. That is an illustration of the way in which the conflict which I have referred to can take on a real embodiment. 
One may then ask what are the solutions to that sort of conflict. I think that there are probably three solutions. The first solution is, of course, the solution which the Government articulates and which it articulated when this scheme was introduced- that is, the sanction of electoral retribution. If councils spend money on wasteful projects, as this council clearly does, then, of course, they run the risk and must run the risk that the ratepayers, the electors in the municipality, will take their quite justified vengeance at the first suitable opportunity. The second solution is that one is quite justified in looking at the needs allocation of an individual municipality. If one looks at the expenditure reasonably and fairly and comes to the conclusion, as one must with this municipality, that it is a waster, a big spender spending money on wasteful projects which probably do not properly come within the definition of local government activities anyway, then in my view it is quite reasonable to say that perhaps, this council should have a lower allocation on the needs basis than it presently has. That is quite a reasonable conclusion to come to. 
-Doncaster and Templestowe Municipal Council in Victoria. I have already mentioned it by name. It is the Municipality of Doncaster and Templestowe. The third solution to this conflict is to draw attention, as I am endeavouring to do now, to the actual expenditure itself, in the reasonable expectation that citizens who are paying taxes funnelled, in part, through the scheme we are concerned with in this legislation, will know the way in which their funds are being spent. It is quite reasonable to draw to their attention the fact that their funds are, in this case, being wasted. It is quite reasonable to draw attention to comparable salaries between, on the one hand, those being paid by the municipality and, on the other hand, those being paid by some of the office bearers that I have mentioned already- people in very responsible positions handling large sums of money and making decisions which have wide-ranging implications. It is quite reasonable to draw attention to those. One hopes that the municipality will either defend its position or, one would hope, see the light of reason and be a bit more restrained, a bit more sensible and a bit more responsible to the taxpayers of Australia who are now, under this very desirable scheme we are dealing with in this legislation, paying taxes to provide funds for local government. 
-I ask the Treasurer whether he has seen a recent study of the socalled black economy, that is, the world of cash and kind transactions used to avoid payment of income tax by means such as straight-out avoidance, gifts instead of payments, moonlighting and illegitimate deductions. Has the Treasurer also seen some assessments that put such transactions at about 7 per cent of the national income in Great Britain? Has he also seen that there have been recent attempts to counteract this sort of activity in tax avoidance in France, West Germany, Belgium and Sweden? I further ask the Treasurer Is there a similar avoidance of tax in Australia? What is the extent of it? Is it not extremely unfair on those who do comply with their taxation obligations? Finally, if there is a problem in this regard in Australia, what does the Government propose to do about it? 
