I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is the Minister aware that  Senator Bonner  was transported to Warwick and other centres in Queensland by a defence force helicopter on Saturday, 14 February 1976? Can the Minister inform the Senate who authorised this form of transport for  Senator Bonner  and whether other members of the Parliament were invited to accompany him? Finally, will the Minister advise whether similar transport will be available for Opposition senators in the future? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. I refer further to the storm which was experienced in Bundaberg on Sunday. Will the Minister inform the Senate whether there is any truth in a widespread rumour which followed the storm that a vital Weather Bureau radar installation in Queensland was out of order for some days prior to the Bundaberg storm? 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
In addressing my question to the Minister for Science I refer to his announcement of 4 February 1976 concerning a cut of $847,000 in the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation's budget for the remainder of this financial year. In the Minister's Press statement of that date he agreed that these cuts would 'create some operating difficulties'. Could the Minister advise the Senate exactly what difficulties are likely to occur and what effect this reduction in spending will have on businesses and organisations which rely on the CSIRO for scientific research assistance? ' 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that the Air Pilots Guild of Australia has warned that unless adequate action is immediately taken there is a grave risk of a collision between landing aircraft at some of Australia's busiest airports? Has the Minister seen a copy of the letter forwarded to the Department of Transport by the  President  of the Guild, Captain Cameron, in which it is claimed that there are glaring deficiencies in the Department's safety control of aircraft at Bankstown, Moorabbin and Parafield? Will the Minister advise the Senate what action has been taken to investigate these claims? 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  I would like to join with other honourable senators in congratulating you upon your appointment to your high and important office. From what other honourable senators have said- senators who have known you for a long time- it is obvious that you have given a long service to the people of Australia not only in the Senate but also in the South Australian legislature. What 1 am about to say I think you will accept as not being any reflection upon yourself but as part of practical politics. Like m any others on this side of the Senate, 1 look forward to the day when we will have a nominee from our Party, the Australian Labor Party, as  President  of the Senate. But in the meantime, I look forward to serving under your presidency and I wish you well during your tenure of office. 
It would be remiss of me not to congratulate also those who have already delivered maiden speeches in this the Thirtieth Parliament. Whilst I do not agree with the political philosophy of many of those who have spoken and I will not agree with the political philosophy of some of those who are still to speak, I hope that this will not prevent us from working together for the betterment of the Australian people. Like all of the new honourable senators and I suppose like most of those who have been recently re-elected I am aware of the responsibility that I have towards the people who elected me, in this case the people of Queensland. 
With 9 other honourable senators I represent a great State. In Queensland in some respects we do things on a grand scale. We have some of the finest surfing beaches in the world. Our natural resources of many kinds would be the envy of many people from overseas. Even in such leisure time pursuits as cricket we can show the people from other States how to play. One thing however detracts from our great State- and I think I must say this tonight- and that is the abysmally poor State government in Queensland which has been elected on malapportioned electorates. 
-Thank you, sir. I think that as I proceed you will probably appreciate, because of something I will say at a later stage, why I did go to such extremes in my maiden speech. Some people, I think, enter this chamber unnoticed. I think some people probably are unnoticed when they leave also. But because of circumstances surrounding the arrival of some of the people to this chamber I am sure that even if some of them wished to remain unnoticed they could not do so. Some of the newly elected senators probably fit into this category. Although they might not be noticed nationally they have at least been noticed in their own State because of the circumstances surrounding their election to this chamber. This has probably been the case with me. If not noticed for my attempts to enter this Parliament in 1970 and 1974, at least because of the events that took place in August and September last year I would have been noticed when I in fact did arrive here. 
It was a rocky road for me to enter this Parliament and, indeed, about August and September last year when a casual vacancy occurred for the Senate in Queensland I sometimes wondered whether all the difficulties of trying to come here to serve my fellow Australians were all worth while. Having made it, let me say that I am delighted to be here and having arrived I intend to stay here for quite some time. It has been expected by a number of people, I feel, that when I made my maiden speech I would recount some of the events surrounding the casual Senate vacancy which occured in Queensland last year. I do not intend to dwell on this subject for any great length because I think that there are more important things that I can speak about to the Senate tonight. Certainly I believe that some underhand and despicable actions surrounded the filling of that casual vacancy. I think that many people on both sides of the chamber would agree with me. In fact, in some respects I think that the dignity of this chamber was assaulted by what happened. I do not intend to dwell on this matter, however, because in some respects it is past history and in another respect I have already put down on paper my thoughts about the matters and I expect them to be in published form very shortly. 
This evening I will speak on different matters, matters which people probably would not have expected me to speak about after having been the nominee of the Australian Labor Party for that casual Senate vacancy in Queensland last year. I expect that when people come to this chamber many of them come with certain experiences and certain backgrounds which will channel their thoughts in debate in this chamber. If that is normal then I am no exception. I probably have a few major areas on which I will enter debate in this Parliament. These areas stem from my backgrounds. One of these is education. I spent many years as a primary school teacher in Queensland. After teaching in primary schools I went into secondary schools and later went into guidance work in the secondary sphere. After I left that sphere I did full time university work, again in the field of education. After finishing that I returned to the education sphere and did some research work. So, education will be one of the fields on which I think I will have some competence to speak in this chamber and it will be one of the fields in which I will pursue my interests here. 
While I was carrying on with my education studies, while I was a teacher, later a guidance officer and then research worker in the field of education, I carried on in parallel a part-time career. I was a member of the Citizen Military Forces or, as it is now called, the Army Reserve for many years. Because of that I will have an interest in defence matters which come before this chamber, especially matters that concern Army Reserve personnel. I was fairly fortunate in the postings I had in the Army reserve in that I was able to train and actually carry out some work for the Armed Services in four of the States of Australia and in Papua New Guinea as well. 
I also have another interest and it is probably because of my own background of experience with which I have grown up. 1 want to look after and fight for the interests of a group of people who do not have any real bargaining power in this community. Not having any real bargaining power they are unable to take advantage of pressuring others to see that they get their just rewards. Because they do not have this bargaining power they are often the forgotten people in our society. It is about these people I want to speak tonight. I believe that these people have been misled by the current Government. They were misled last year at election time. They have been misled since. They are becoming so aware of the fact that they are not getting their just reward that they are becoming worried. This evening I want to speak about the pensioners of this community, the people who are dependent upon the Government for their very livelihood. I want to outline the policy speech of the Liberal Party last year and how it is measuring up so far to what it said it would do. The first thing I wish to speak about is pensions. I remind honourable senators, if they need reminding, of what was said by the Liberal Party last year with regard to pensions. The Liberal Party statement read: 
The real value of pensions will be preserved. 
Later the statement dealt with pensions again: 
These benefits will be protected against inflation. 
These are fine words, but how was the Liberal Party going to do this? How did it intend continuing to have the real value of pensions preserved? It was not until some time after that policy speech that the person who is now the Prime Minister of this country said that he would adj ust pensions automatically twice a year and that these pensions would be related to the consumer price index. So far, so good but relating pensions to the consumer price index, whilst it sounded good to many pensioners throughout Australia, did not measure up to the policy which the Australian Labor Party had when it was in power. That policy made sure that the pensioners, the people who had built this country, the people from whom we received a heritage, were able to share in the prosperity of the country as it prospered from their earlier efforts and from the efforts of those people who had taken over the economy of the country when they retired. To make sure that the pensioners shared in this prosperity the Australian Labor Party decided that the best course of action was to tie pensions to the average weekly earnings. The Australian Labor Government's policy was that not only should wage earners share in the prosperity of the nation but also pensioners. I have prepared a table which shows what would have happened if pensions had been increased according to the consumer price index from when the Australian Labor Party came into power in December 1972. It also shows what would have happened if pensions had been held at 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, which was Australian Labor Party policy. With your concurrence,  Mr President,  and with the concurrence of the Senate, I seek leave to incorporate this table in  Hansard. 

<graphic href="067232197602253_42_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="067232197602253_43_1.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Senate. I will refer to certain portions of this table. In December 1972 the Australian Labor Government increased the single rate pension to $21.50. If we take that $21.50 and increase it according to increases iti the consumer price index we find that by December 1975 it would have increased to $32.30. This $32.30 based on increases in the consumer price index compares with $38.75 which was the actual rate pension in operation in December 1975. But a more remarkable comparison can be made if we compare the increased pension according to what it would be if increased by the movements in the consumer price index with the single rate pension as being 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. Indeed, from June 1 974, when the theoretical pension according to the consumer price index movement was $25.95 and according to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings was $31.70, the pension as theoretically shown by the movements in the consumer price index was lower than the actual pension which people were receiving. The point that I wish to make is that although it was mentioned in the policy speech of the present Government that the pensions would be increased according to the consumer price index, this was not as generous as the scheme that the Australian Labor Party had for its pensioners. In addition to this, at the beginning of this year, a Press statement was issued by the current Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in which he said, amongst other things: 
The new half-yearly social security and repatriation pension increases initiated in the spring of 1975 by our predecessors will continue with the next increase taking effect from May 1976. Savings in 1975-76 will be $29m. 
An attempt was made, when this Press statement was produced, to show that the present Government intended to increase age pensions 6 months after those last granted by the previous Government. The Government said it was doing this because it would save $29m. I believe that the Government cannot have it both ways. Either it was going to save $29m by not introducing the increased pensions earlier or it was going to introduce the increased pensions earlier and not save $29m. Whatever the case, the pensioners of Australia were upset because it appeared to them that penny pinching was being carried out with them as the sufferers. I recently read something that the present Prime Minister said on 8 December before the election. It was a newspaper article and the by-line read: 
Labor has hit the pensioners- Fraser. 
I wonder what pensioners think of that nowadays? 
I would like to turn to another area in which the current Government said that it was going to cut costs. Again the people who were to pay for this cutting of costs were the pensioners. Unless this was in print one would hardly believe that this emanated from a Minister of this Parliament. On 6 February this year the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  announced that a charge of $10 was to be made for hearing aids provided by the Government. In his statement he said that it would not place an undue burden on people requiring new hearing aids. Only 5 days later the same Minister made a statement and said, amongst other things, that the $10 charge for hearing aids would not be imposed because it would cause undue hardship. He made the first statement which stated that no undue burden would be placed on people yet, 5 days later he said it would cause undue hardship. No wonder the pensioners and people who are dependent on the Government are now confused. 
I am saddened that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  is not in the chamber at the moment because I want to comment on something that has happened in her Department.  Senator Guilfoyle  took out her accountant's scalpel and decided to abolish funeral benefits for pensioners because, she said, they appeared to be of little significance.  Senator Guilfoyle  went on to say that it did not really matter that the funeral benefits for pensioners were to be abolished because the Government had decided to continue to pay for 12 weeks the combined rate of married pension to the surviving partner in cases where a married pensioner died. 
I would like to examine a couple of aspects of this matter. First of all, the funeral benefits were introduced in 1943 by the Curtin Government. The basic rate of benefit has not changed. It was then £10 which is $20. In October 1965 the benefit was increased, for some people, to $40. The idea behind this was that it would relieve pensioners of any anxiety that they might have about being given a pauper's funeral after their death. Some pensioners put away a certain part of their pension for a funeral- money that they could more readily use on their day to day needs. I turn now from funeral benefits to the other matter raised by  Senator Guilfoyle.  In August 1968  Mr McMahon,  as Treasurer, made this announcement in the Budget Speech. He said: 
To relieve the difficulties faced by the surviving partner of a married pensioner couple and to help these pensioners to adjust to a single pension, the Government has decided that the equivalent of the combined pension will be paid to the survivor for 1 2 weeks after one of them dies. 
This was in 1968. But because the current Government is going to be so magnanimous as to keep something that was introduced in 1968, it now intends to take away funeral benefits to pensioners. I would like to mention something that was contained in the first main report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty in relation to this matter. The report said in part: 
The rate of benefit now paid is laughable in relation to funeral costs - 
As most honourable senators would agree, I think-  and should either be abandoned or changed. 
It went on to say:   . . elderly people are known for their desire to receive a decent funeral and find security in the knowledge that it will be provided. Further, funeral expenses do sometimes cause hardship. Accordingly, grants should be made available to contribute to the cost of a modest funeral . . . 
It then states in what cases such grants should be made. If the present Government believes that some people who are receiving these funeral benefits do not really need them, it should not have cut out these benefits in one swipe as it has. It should have examined the cases in which there is real hardship and in such cases it should have made the grants which that report suggested should be made. 
Finally in relation to the measures on which people have been misled by the current Government, I should like to mention something about the unemployed. In the policy speech of the Liberal Party  Mr Fraser  said: 'We will be generous to those who cannot get a job and want to work '. From something that I heard earlier I could hardly believe that the Liberal Party had said that, but it did. On 6 February this year  Mr Hunt  announced that the concession under which subsidised health beneficiaries receive their pharmaceutical benefits scheme medicines at half price was to be discontinued. Amongst other people, the unemployed will miss out on that concession. The unemployed were able to receive their medicines not for $1.50 but for 75c, which was half price. They will no longer be able to do so. Not only will they have to pay $1.50, but if the proposed legislation goes through this chamber shortly they will have to pay $2 for their medicines. 
I wonder whether the present Minister who cut out that benefit has ever been unemployed. If he has and if he has been on unemployment benefits he has probably forgotten, as indicated by this action, what it is like to be unemployed and on unemployment benefits. I know what it is like to be unemployed and I know what it is like to be on unemployment benefits. I know what it was like to be on unemployment benefits when a government of the same political colour as the present Government was in power previously. I took home less than $20 a week to keep myself, my wife and one child. Those are the people I will try to protect while I am in this Parliament. 1 do not come to this Parliament as a person who was once a teacher, a student and a research worker. I do not come here, I believe, as a person who was once a part time member of the defence forces. I come here to represent the people of Queensland, the people who elected me to this chamber, and in representing them I intend at all times to fight for their rights, and I intend especially to fight for the rights of the underprivileged. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, by remarking that I am fully aware that at times it is imperative that each of the 3 services carry out exercises by night. However, is the Minister aware that a number of residents in the area close to the Amberley Royal Australian Air Force base have complained of excessive noise from low flying aircraft flying during the night in exercise Summer Rain this week? Can the Minister advise the Senate whether the exercise called for flying on 2 nights, namely, from 3 p.m. to 1 1 p.m. on Tuesday, and from 11.30 p.m. on Wednesday until 7.30 a.m. this morning. Does the Minister agree in principle that, if possible, the Royal Australian Air Force should comply with the curfew restrictions placed on commercial aircraft in Australia? Finally, will the Minister take up this matter with the Minister for Defence to ensure that any complaints from people in the Amberley district in relation to exercise Summer Rain are taken into consideration when future exercises are planned? 
I open by referring to a statement by the previous  speaker, Senator Knight.  He said, to paraphrase his words, that the effects flowing from this Bill will benefit disadvantaged people. I am still perplexed about how that will happen. I do not speak, as have many people who have spoken in the debate on this Bill in this House and in the other House, as a medical practitioner, a pharmacist or someone in a paramedical field. I speak as a person who is concerned that one of the effects of this Bill will be to place a financial burden on people who can ill-afford such a burden. Last hight I said that I was in this chamber to do a number of things, one of which was to fight for disadvantaged people. That is why I am speaking on this Bill this afternoon. 
In my opinion a shameful and shabby deal has been introduced into the Senate today. A number of people in the community are becoming confused because of what is happening in the social welfare field in Australia. I must admit that I have joined the ranks of the confused. I find it difficult to reconcile two different statements. I will read parts of these statements to show where my confusion exists. Perhaps the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  can show me later where I have gone wrong or why I have not been able to follow these 2 statements. The first statement was provided by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  on 4 February this year. He said, amongst other things, that the Government aimed to cut the cost of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme by $34m in a full year. He said that this would be done mainly by raising the patient contribution for benefit drugs and removing certain items from the pharmaceutical benefits list. Later on in the same statement he said that the savings planned by the Government would cut $7m from the cost for the remainder of the financial year. 

 Senator Guilfoyle, in her second reading speech, said: 
The increase in the patient contribution is one of the means by which the increasing expenditure of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme can be reduced. This increase, together with the removal of the concession for subsidised health benefits plan beneficiaries, will result in a saving of $5. 6m in this financial year, and S24m in a full year. 
My confusion arises from the difference between the $24m and the $34m and between the $5.6m and the $7m. I realise that some other different benefits could be involved. Perhaps the Minister could explain this to me later. 
The increase from $1.50 to $2 for prescription fees will disadvantage the person who is on a low income, the person who has a large family, the person who is chronically ill or the person who has chronically ill people in his family. It will not matter much for the person on a high income. He can shoulder the 50c increase quite readily. Some people in this community cannot. The Commission of Inquiry into Poverty showed that severe pockets of poverty existed in Australia. Even in the normal wage earning community 3 per cent of the people receive under $80 a week and 6.8 per cent receive under $100 a week. These people, especially if they have large families, will be disadvantaged. 
It has been said that people can go to public hospital outpatient clinics if they are amongst those people who cannot afford the $2 for a prescription fee. I think this has dangers. It means that people will take economy measures to go to these outpatient clinics and therefore bypass their own doctor who probably knows their medical history better than any other doctor. It also means that people will have travelling problems. This will happen not only in the country areas, but it will be most marked in the country areas. If a person wanted to go from the inner city suburb in which I live in Brisbane to the nearest outpatient clinic he would incur at least $2 in fares just for himself. He would have to take 4 different buses and, as I said, incur a total of $2 in fares. This would be greater than the $1.50 he used to have to pay for one script. It seems to me that some people will shun health care as they did before the previous Government introduced Medibank. With the subsidised health medical benefits scheme the low income earners and the disadvantaged will suffer. It seems to me that the Government is intent that the disadvantaged will shoulder the burden of the Government's economy measures. One of the previous speakers in this debate said that inflation had risen by 13 per cent to 15 per cent for the year and that because of this it is quite right that the Government should increase the fee from $1.50 to $2. One of the speakers on this side suggested that he should check his arithmetic. If he has not checked his arithmetic let me tell him it is an increase of 33 V5 per cent, which is more than double the rate of the increase due to inflationary pressures. It seems to me that if the Government can see faults in the current system it should not just wipe the system willy-nilly but should try to find out how it can help the people who will be disadvantaged by these increases. 
In conclusion, I would like to mention that while this cost cutting exercise is going on we learn that the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, has hired a full time Press officer to tell his rural electorate of Wannon what his Government is doing. This Press officer will cost the Government about $22,000 a year. I suggest that if the Government is going to hire a Press officer to tell the electorate what the Government is doing, it should get this officer out to tell the disadvantaged people what it is doing to them. 
Debate interrupted. 

 - Mr Chairman, I must admit that I am still confused about the cost savings. May I repeat something that I said earlier. The statement issued on behalf of the Minister for Health (  Mr Hunt)  on 4 February last stated: 
The Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  said today that the Government aimed to cut the cost of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme by $34m in a full year. This would be done mainly by raising the patient contribution for benefit drugs and removing certain hems from the pharmaceutical benefits list. 
The statement later said that the planned cut for this year, that is for the remainder of this financial year, would be $7m. In her second reading speech the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  said: 
The increase in the patient contribution is one of the means by which the increasing expenditure of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme can be reduced. This increase, together with the removal of the concession for subsidised health benefits plan beneficiaries, will result in a saving of $5.6m in this financial year, and $24m in a full year. 
I think that I am starting to see light. This means that because certain items will be removed from the pharmaceutical benefits list there will be a saving of about $ 1 Om or $ 1 1 m on those items. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Education been drawn to a report in the  Courier-Mail  newspaper of 1 March 1 976 in which the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  is quoted as saying, 'Education would be one of the fields to suffer from government economies'? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the  Deputy  Prime Minister's prediction is correct? If his prediction is correct, what areas of expenditure on education are likely to be affected? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and relates to an article in this morning's  Sydney Morning Herald,  which states in part: 
.  Senator Carrick  appears to blame the N.S.W. Premier,  Sir Eric  Willis, for a decision last year that shattered the hopes of more than 1000 parents of handicapped children. 
Will the Minister advise the Senate whether finance will be made available for the New South Wales program to take over private schools for the severely retarded? In view of the Minister's reported statement that 'the question of recurrent funding beyond the initial year of transfer was not explicitly covered, but this should not have been taken as implying no financial support, or as a refusal to guarantee support', will the Minister inform the Senate what the position is in relation to funding beyond the year of transfer? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Did the Minister announce on 4 February 1976 that the special projects program of the Schools Commission would be reduced by $800,000 in each half of this calendar year; if so, what projects will actually be affected. 
What was the estimated cost of each of the projects that will be affected. 
Why was the special projects program for 1 976 slow to start. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
How many members are there on the Minister's personal staff. 
What are (a) their names, (b) designations and (c) salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent, or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by the Minister. 
Are these advisers and consultants full-time or parttime and what are their names and salaries. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence upon notice: 
Do two frigates on order from the United States of America have nuclear powered armaments systems. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. I refer to a report in the  Courier-Mail  of 3 March 1976 in which  Dr Robert  Endean, a reader in zoology at the University of Queensland, said that the report on the crown of thorns starfish was 'a whitewash and a waste of public money'. Does the Minister agree with  Dr Endean  's claim that the report ignored all the evidence and had wasted nearly Sim of taxpayers' money? In view of the seriousness of these claims and because of  Dr Endean  's high standing as a scientist, will the Minister take steps to investigate  Dr Endean  's detailed criticisms and make a statement to the Senate on the subject? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice : 
Will the Minister inform the Senate whether she still has concern for the extreme difficulties faced by some supporting fathers, and whether they can expect to have their responsibilities acknowledged in this year's Budget. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General, follows questions asked by  Senator Ryan  and  Senator Cavanagh  this afternoon. Will the Minister confirm for the benefit of honourable senators that the Crown does not intend to appeal against the magistrate's decision in the Garland-Branson case, despite the fact that the magistrate said that evidence put to the court established a prima facie case? Will the Minister table in the Senate the full documented grounds for the magistrate's decision? Finally, will the Minister inform the Senate whether the decision in the Garland-Branson case established a precedent that will make election corruption and bribery a respectable profession in Australia? 

 - Mr President, I rise this evening to make a plea to the Government to reconsider the action that it has taken to remove from the pharmaceutical benefits list cows' milk substitutes for children of and over the age of 18 months. I doubt whether the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  who represents in the Senate the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  will be able to give me a definite answer on the plea that I make. If that is not possible, I ask her to take back my comments to the Minister for Health to see whether in fact anything can be done. 
The situation is that from 1 April cows' milk substitutes will not be on the pharmaceutical benefits list for children of and over the age of 1 8 months, whereas until now they have been available for children up to the age of 6 years. Some children over the age of 18 months do need cows' milk substitutes. Their parents will be faced with the fairly heavy burden of providing these substitutes now that they will no longer be provided on the pharmaceutical benefits list. In fact, if a child is drinking the same quantity of cows' milk substitutes as a child would normally drink of cows' milk, the cost to parents will be $10 a week. That $10 a week compares with approximately $1.50 a week for the same quantity of cows 'milk. 
To give the background of this matter briefly, I wish to quote from a couple of documents, which I think probably contain some inconsistencies. The first document from which I quote is a Press statement by the Minister for Health dated 27 February in which, amongst other things, he said: 
A reduction is to be made in the age limit from 6 years to 1 8 months for patients who are eligible to receive cows ' milk substitutes (goats' milk, soya formula and Nutramigen) as a pharmaceutical benefit. 
Later in his statement, the Minister said: 
While savings would result from the changes, they were based firstly on therapeutic considerations. 
I am not too sure about that last statement. Another document- this was put out by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee and is in the form of a letter which was sent to medical practitioners throughout Australia, signed by the  Chairman  of that body- stated under the heading of  Cows' Milk Substitutes: 
The Committee considers that although cows' milk allergy in infants can cause eczema, asthma, allergic respiratory catarrh, allergic disorders, severe persistent vomiting, abdominal discomfort and diarrhoea, these can all be caused by a number of other factors. 
Of course they can. I presume that there are some honourable senators who have from time to time suffered from abdominal discomfort, and this has not been because they have an allergy to cows' milk. But the point is that all of these complaints that were mentioned can be caused because of an allergy to cows' milk. The letter continued: 
Cows ' milk allergy, while sometimes permanent, is usually temporary . . . 
My point is that it is sometimes permanent. The letter continued: 
Cows' milk substitutes are being used unnecessarily in many children . . . 
I make the point also that, if these substitutes are being used unnecessarily in respect of many children, they are being used because medical practitioners are prescribing these cows' milk substitutes for the children. This places the parent in somewhat of a dilemma. The parent is taking the medical advice that the child needs the cows' milk substitute. The parent is not aware of whether the child has a permanent condition. But if a medical practitioner decides that it is a permanent condition the child must stay on one of the substitutes. The point I am making is that the parents of a child who must stay on it will be financially embarrassed, and the advisory committee admitted that sometimes this allergy is permanent. It probably will mean that some children will not be able to continue on the cows' milk substitutes, although they really should, because of their cost. 
What I should like to do this evening is to ask the Government to reconsider its decision. If it finds that the substitutes are being used unnecessarily for many children perhaps there could be a way around this so that the cows ' milk substitutes could be provided for those who really need them, for those whose allergy is permanent. I ask the Minister whether she will either comment on this suggestion or take it back to the Minister for Health to see whether the Government can reconsider its decision on this benefit. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to a question which  Senator Colston  asked the Minister on 24 February 1976 in relation to a Weather Bureau radar installation, has the Minister now investigated the matter. 
Will the Minister inform the Senate whether a vital Weather Bureau radar installation in Queensland was out of order for some days prior to the Bundaberg storm on 22 February 1976. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether widows and women who receive supporting mothers pensions will receive the 6.4 per cent increase recently announced by the Government? If so, will a similar increase be made to the present allowance of $7.50 for each child? 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs: 
Is there a Premiers' Conference to be held with the Prime Minister on 9 April 1976, to discuss details of the Federal Government's new federalism policy. 
Will the Government allow representatives of local government to attend and take pan in the Conference, since this matter is of great importance to local government authorities in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Social Security upon notice: 
Has the Government abandoned plans to phase out the final stage of the means test in respect of pensions in the Annual Budget, 
Would such a decision be a reversal of Government policy. 
If the Government has decided to continue with the phasing out of the means test, will the Minister rebut suggestions to the contrary which were contained in an article in the Sydney newspaper "The Sun-Herald " of 29 February 1 976. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the Prime Minister visit New Zealand from 8 March to 1 1 March 1976 for discussions and to attend the special meeting of the South Pacific Forum. 
What is the estimated cost of the visit. 
Who will be meeting the cost. 
Who accompanied the Prime Minister on the visit. 
What travel arrangements were made for the Prime Minister and his party. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Does the Australian News and Information Service distribute copies of all ministerial Press releases on a regular daily basis to the electorate offices of senators and members? Is he aware that included in yesterday's distribution was a Press release from the Federal Secretariat of the Liberal Party of Australia dated 19 March and entitled 'Visit by  Mrs Margaret  Thatcher'? If the Minister is not aware of that, will he inquire into the matter and advise the Senate accordingly? How long has a government agency been distributing party political propaganda on behalf of the Liberal Party and presumably the National Country Party of Australia? Will the Minister make the necessary inquiries so that he can advise the Senate what the cost has been to date of so distributing Party propaganda? 

 -Mr Deputy President, I take the opportunity to speak on the first reading of this Bill to bring before the Senate a few comments that normally I would not have the opportunity of making. I have listened intently to the comments of other honourable senators tonight. One of the things that I have learnt from the debate is that, from the comments  Senator Grimes  made perhaps I did my university work in the wrong faculty. I wish to deal with 2 points tonight. I say at the outset that one of them covers the general problem of unemployment. But I make the comment that I am not going to speak on the ministerial statement that was presented in the Senate yesterday. Indeed, if I did, I would not be in order. Before speaking on the general problem of unemployment, I must say that I am glad to see  Senator Bonner  in the chamber tonight. Last night,  Senator Bonner  made some comments about a member of the Queensland Parliament,  Mr Aikens. Senator Bonner  had some words to say which were not very complimentary to  Mr Aikens.  I wish to make a few comments on the man myself. This man said some things about me last August, which I think are probably worth repeating, in view of what  Senator Bonner  mentioned last night. I quote this evening some extracts from the  Hansard  of the Queensland State House, the Legislative Assembly, to illustrate some of the comments that  Mr Aikens  made last year when he was speaking on the debate on the casual vacancy for Queensland in the Senate when that vacancy was being filled last August. 
-Oh, I agree. I would not take his comments too seriously. But I think it is worth while bringing these extracts before the Senate to reinforce the speech made by  Senator Bonner  last night. One comment that perhaps  Senator Bonner  might find most interesting is contained in one of the early statements in this speech by  Mr Aikens,  who said: 
I would make an excellent  Senator. 
That is Aikens speaking of himself: 
I would fill the halls of the Senate with glorious golden oratory. 
Let us listen to some of his golden glorious oratory. Unfortunately, I will not be able to read some of it because 1 am sure I would be out of order because of the language used. One of his statements was: 
I am not going to make any personal attack on  Dr Colston.  I never launch a personal attack on anybody . . . 
He also said: 
Let me refer to what the Leader of the Opposition said about  Dr Colston  being an honoured servant of this State. Colston has been crawling to the National-Liberal Government for years. He crawled to it to get a job. After he had dropped out to contest the Senate, he subsequently crawled to the Government, but the Minister who had previously employed him would not employ him again. He went to the most warmhearted Minister, a man who to judge from his appearance, would be the antithesis of a ballerina. That Minister said, 'Poor bugger. Give him a job'. He has been crawling to the National-Liberal Government for years for a position. He got his position and held it until he resigned in anticipation of an appointment to the Senate. 
I have read this quote because  Mr Aikens  had said: 'I am not going to make any personal attack on  Dr Colston'.  Let us look at the golden oratory that followed. I will not pursue this line further after these few words because I do not think it is worthwhile dwelling on the remarks of  Mr Aikens. 
-My word, I have had the last laugh on him.  Mr Aikens  said: 
I will put it mildly. Colston is one of the trendy university set- one of the trendy mob. 
Someone interjected and said: 'An academic'.  Mr Aikens  replied: 
He is worse than that. The other day I was out at the James Cook University . . . 
He related how all the students gave him a grand ovation and then proceeded with this golden oratory: 
One young woman stood up- if she had been dressed in male attire I would have mistaken her for Colston- and she asked me,  'Mr Aikens,  what is your attitude to masturbation?' I said, 'I have never had any personal experience with it but doctors assure us that it will not do us any harm . . . 
I have quoted those few extracts to follow up the comments made by  Senator Bonner  last night about that member of the Queensland Parliament. I think they reinforce  Senator Bonner's  comments about that parliamentary representative. 
The other point I wish to mention tonight deals with the plight of the unemployed. Most people who are unemployed and receiving unemployment benefits are genuine. They really cannot find jobs. Therefore, they should be treated with the dignity with which we would treat any of our fellow citizens. I think, sometimes, that this dignity is lacking in our attitude. I look forward to the debate that will follow on the paper that was presented yesterday by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  about unemployment benefits. The reason I look forward to that debate is that perhaps, somewhat naively, when I was first elected to this Senate I thought that senators from both sides of the chamber would have the opportunity to debate proposals put forward by the Government and would be able to allow their feelings on all matters to be made known. I was rudely shockedperhaps brought back to reality- in the first month after my election to this place. The Government outlined a number of changes- in fact a plethora of changes- on various matters before this Senate actually assembled. So, at that time I, as a new senator, and all other honourable senators, did not have the opportunity to use this chamber as a forum in which to speak either in favour of or against those changes which the Government had made. 
I look forward to the day when we can debate the paper presented to the Senate yesterday. In the meantime I should like to make a few comments about the unemployed. I know what it is like to be unemployed and receiving unemployment benefits, as indeed I think do a few other honourable senators. Too few people know what it is like to be in such a position. Certainly one does not have to be unemployed or to have been unemployed to understand the plight of the unemployed. If people have sufficient insight, they should be able to understand these problems without having been in that position themselves. Not only have I been in that position but also another member of my family has been unemployed. I know what it is like to be unemployed. I will always be sympathetic towards people who find themselves out of a job through no fault of their own. 
I mention the 2 instances of unemployment in my family with which I have had experience. When I was a young lad my father found himself out of a job through no fault of his own. It was not the first time that he had been out of a job because he worked in the building industry. Those who know the building industry reasonably well will know that a person in that industry is often out of a job even though it may be for only a short time. The instance to which I am referring occurred in 1961. At that stage, my father had been working for a firm in Brisbane for 9 years and 9 months. He was put off deliberately so that the firm would not have to pay for his  pro rata  long service leave when his service reached 10 years. In 1961, as most honourable senators will remember, it was not easy to find a job in the building industry. It is never easy for a person in his fifties to find a job in the building industry. For a long time my family suffered because my father had to receive unemployment benefitsbenefits which barely kept us living. 
I had hoped that this would never happen to me. I had hoped that it would never happen to any person. But, of course, it does happen to other people. It has happened to me 3 times. The first time was in 1 970. Those who know me personally will know that I stood for the Senate in 1970. Before doing that, I had been a fulltime university student. My university studies finished on the last day of August 1970. On 1 September 1 started to campaign for the 1970 Senate election. I campaigned from then until the election in November. The result, I think, was almost a foregone conclusion considering my position on the ballot paper. However I had set out in that election to try to get into this place. After having found myself unsuccessful in that election I went back to the State department in which I had been employed before I left to do fulltime university studies. I was told: 'Yes, we will give you a job but we cannot start you until the end of January '. I had no other qualifications so I could not take another job. I had been campaigning without any income coming in. For my family's welfarefor the welfare of my wife and my young son- it was necessary for me to take the unemployment benefit. That was the first time that I had ever been unemployed. It taught me a good lesson. 1 think that there is no stigma in having to take unemployment benefits because if a person finds himself in a difficult position society will help him over an awkward period. The next time I was in receipt of unemployment benefit was again after a Senate election. In 1974 I had to resign my position to contest the Senate election. 
-Indeed, I voluntarily terminated my employment, but some compulsion was attached to it. I was a public servant at the time. I was obliged to resign from that position because I was seeking election to the Senate. Section 44 of the Constitution, as all honourable senators would be aware, in part states: 
Any person who-. . . 
Holds any office of profit under the Crown, . . . shall be incapable of being chosen or of sitting as a senator . . . 
So it was necessary for me to resign my public service position. I was not successful in that election either. After finding out that I was not successful I applied for a job back with the State Government Department. A long story surrounds that matter but eventually I got back into the State Government, although not into the department from which I had left. There was a long period before I got my job back. Again, because of the expenses I had incurred as a candidate and because I had been off work for a long period before the election I was forced, because of family responsibilities, to take unemployment benefits. I thought that this would probably be the last time, but it was not. 
There was a third time when I was forced to seek the help of the Government by asking for unemployment benefits. This happened in August last year. I referred to a part of that episode when I first spoke about the debate on the casual vacancy. I was the nominee of the Australian Labor Party for the vacancy which occurred when  Senator Milliner  died. Wanting to contest that vacancy which was decided by the State Parliament I again had to resign my position as a public servant. The State Government quite readily allowed me to resign to contest that position but, quite as readily, it did not allow me to fill that casual vacancy. Again I became unemployed and again I had to seek the help of the Government of the day by asking for unemployment benefits. These are the 3 times on which I have experienced this situation. I am determined, now that I have come to the Senate, that I will not experience this circumstance any more. Whether that is so or not, I learnt a lot about the plight of the unemployed through personal experience. I learnt that people often are not treated with the dignity which should be given to a person who has found himself in this position. For instance, once when I went to enrol I was given a gruff greeting and told that I would have to wait for some time. When I was filling in the application form for the person who was to decide whether I should get the benefits, he asked: What are your academic qualifications?' I told him. He said: 'You should not be here. Anyone with those qualifications should be able to get a job.' This was the sort of thing which I experienced. 
I think the most embarrassing situation I experienced in relation to unemployment benefits was an occasion when I went to the employment office and took my young son with me. He was under the age of five at the time. He found it necessary to go to a toilet so I asked the people in the office whether I could use one of their toilets for my young son. They said: 'No, it is a definite rule that we do not allow any of our clients to use our toilets. There is a hotel up the road. You can take him up there.' That is what I had to do. People have been coming into my electoral office fairly regularly with problems in relation to employment. I probably treat them a little differently from the way in which I would have treated them if I had not had this experience myself, although I hope that without these experiences I would have treated them with dignity as I do now. I give them all the help I can. I certainly understand their problems. A lot of them come to my office because they are confused. They do not know what the proper procedures are. It is not long before they are put on the right track. 
Some of them have comments about public servants. They really do not paint a picture of public servants as I see them. I think there are a lot of pressures on public servants these days. The public servants who look after people who are unemployed have a lot of frustrations. I commend the public servants for the job they are doing. Before leaving this matter of my personal experience I digress to mention the matter of having to resign as a public servant. I think this is something at which this Parliament should look. I know that it would probably mean a change to the Constitution, but it is rather awkward for a number of public servants who want to offer themselves for political office when they find out that they have to resign. In the State from which I come there is no obligation on the State Government to re-employ a person who has resigned to contest a political office and who has not been successful. I think this must put doubt in the minds of many public servants who could probably make a sound contribution to this Parliament about whether they should, in fact, consider nominating for political office. 
Some people have told me that perhaps this part of the Constitution which mentions the holder of any office of profit under the Crown might not necessarily apply to State public servants. They suggest that the word 'Crown' might mean the Commonwealth Public Service. Any public servant who wishes to come into Federal Parliament could not take such a risk. It is probably worth while for Parliament to look at that provision at some time to make sure that public servants are not denied ready access to nominate for political office. 
I received a letter from a constituent which brought to my mind some of the problems of the unemployed in country areas. I think this is an aspect at which the relevant Minister or the Government should look. Part of the letter states: 
The Commonwealth Employment Service in Caloundra is located in and administered by Carrigans Real Estate. It has come to my notice that this office is refusing to register as unemployed those men and women who do not conform to  Mr Carrigan's  idea of being well dressed. It was my belief that the dress rule applied to the payment of benefit and not to registration with the Commonwealth Employment Service. You can, of course, see the logical implication, that is, that if sufficient number of unemployed are refused registration the figures begin to look quite good for the Government. 
Then, later on, the letter states: 
Actually, the whole system of locating offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service in other businesses needs investigation, particularly with regard to training of staff and confidentiality of information. 
I have no personal knowledge of this real estate office or of the man who runs it. Therefore I cannot make any comment. But there seems to me to be a problem that where the Commonwealth Employment Service is administered by local people who are not public servants there is need for these people to be trained, to be given the proper information about current policy, and also about problems such as those mentioned by this constituent relating to confidentiality of information. I conclude by saying that I look forward in the next few days to a full debate being held on the statement which was introduced into the Senate yesterday. 
This evening I intended to make some comments about a question that I asked this afternoon of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  concerning Press releases from non-government bodies coming through a government agency. I am saddened that the Minister is not in the Senate chamber this evening. Therefore, I will make only a couple of comments and perhaps at a later stage make some more that I was going to make tonight. I made a slight error this afternoon in my question when I referred to an organisation called the Australian News and Information Service. The Leader of the Government in the Senate said that no such organisation existed and he is quite correct. I should have referred to the organisation as the Australian Information Service. 
After I asked my question this afternoon and received a lengthy answer from the Minister, some of which was relevant, I contacted my staff and asked them to investigate this matter a little further. It seems from the investigation that they have made, initially anyway, that the Australian Information Service is in operation in Brisbane. It appears also to be acting as an agent for the Government in distributing ministerial statements to the offices of members of Parliament. It seems that the Press release from the Liberal Party of Australia emanated from this office. I would like to conclude my remarks at that point because it seems that with the Minister not present it is not worth while going on any further with my comment.  Mr President,  I seek leave to incorporate this Press release from the Liberal Party of Australia into the  Hansard  record. 
The Liberal Party of Australia Federal Secretariat 19 March 1976 
For Press 
VISIT BY  Mrs MARGARET  THATCHER 
The Federal  President  of the Liberal Party,  Mr John  Atwill, announced today that the Leader of the British Conservative Party,  Mrs Margaret  Thatcher, would visit Australia in September as a guest of the Liberal Party. 
She would be a guest speaker at the Liberal Party's 1976 Federal Council, to be held in Canberra on the weekend of 18-20 September. 

 Mr Atwill, warmly welcoming the visit, said there would be great interest in the Conservative Party Leader, who could well become the first woman to be Prime Minister of Britain. 

 Mrs Thatcher's Australian itinerary is still to be finalised. She may visit several States. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  I shall continue my statements on this matter at a more appropriate time. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the King and Queen of Jordan pay a State visit to Australia from 2 March to 9 March this year. 
) What is the estimated cost of the visit. 
Who will meet the cost. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is the Government examining ways to prevent Australians from going overseas to fight as mercenaries in Angola and other foreign wars. 
Is the Attorney-General's Department preparing legislation which will include provisions that will deprive such people of their passports 
If such legislation is being prepared, will it be introduced in this Parliamentary session. 
-Would the Minister for Social Security advise the Senate whether it is possible for pension payments to be paid directly into savings bank accounts? If some savings banks will not at present accept payments of pensions direct into payees' accounts, would the Minister be willing to make representations to those banks to see whether they will agree to making such a service available to pensioners? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has recent severe flooding in Queensland and resultant transport dislocation meant that the southern States are rapidly filling the United States meat import quotas, while Queensland waits for fine weather to allow meatworks' kills to restart. 
Will Australia have shipped almost half its 1976 quota entitlement to the United States by the end of March, leaving only a small share for Queensland. 
) Is the Australian Meat Board taking any action to slow down shipments so as to allow Queensland works a share of the quota; if not, is the Government intending to take any other action to assist the Queensland beef industry through its difficulties. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Was an announcement made on 23 October 1975, by the former Minister for Science, that a pan-time representative WOuld oe elected oy start m m»- CommonMiami Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to the Organisation's governing executive. 
Did nominations for the election close on 30 December 1975; if so, why was the election suspended. 
At whose direction was the election suspended. 
What has been the cost incurred in the election process to date by (a) the Australian Government and (b) the 30 candidates nominated for the election. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the Australian Industries Development Association make public its submission to the Bland Committee in the Association 's Bulletin, No. 272 of March 1 976. 
Was this at the instigation of the Association or the Committee and, if the former, was the Committee's approval obtained. 
Will all submissions received by the Bland Committee be made public; if so, when. 
Will the Prime Minister agree to provide interested Senators and Members of the House of Representatives with copies of submissions as they are received by the Committee. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Have RAAF, Army and Navy pilots been forced to reduce flying hours because of expenditure cutbacks in the Department of Defence? 
I wish to mention 2 matters tonight. They are somewhat related. The first matter is a plea to the Press in Australia. I am aware that it will be a vain plea but I will make it just the same. I ask members of the Press to see whether they can use a word other than ' bludger ' in many of their Press articles. I was moved to mention this in the Senate tonight after reading a report in the Brisbane  Telegraph  of Monday last in which it was mentioned that the Federal Government was planning changes in the administration of social service programs to eliminate all types of welfare bludgers. We have not only 'dole bludger' but also now 'welfare bludger'. I think our English language is rich enough for the Press to be able to use a more appropriate word. I took the opportunity of looking up this word in the dictionary. 'Bludger' does not come under a main heading, but 'bludge' does. The dictionary states:  bludge. 1. To loaf, to impose (on someone). 2. A minor racket. 3. A period of loafing or dodging responsibility. 4. Whence, bludger (sometimes a man living on immoral earnings of women). 
My point is that a more appropriate word could be used. I do not think that the word 'bludger' is the sort of word that adequately describes what these people are trying to say in their Press articles. I appeal to the Press to use a much more appropriate word. 
The second matter I raise deals with a question I asked on notice of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  I would like to mention a couple of aspects of the answer to see whether some parts of it can be elucidated. I asked: 
How many persons have been prosecuted so far this year for continuing to accept a weekly cheque for unemployment benefit after commencing work and of such prosecutions how many have been successful. 
The answer to that question read as follows: 
In the period 1 January 1976 to 17 March 1976, 9 persons have been prosecuted under the Social Services Act for making incorrect statements about employment or earnings while unemployment benefit was being paid. 
So far this is quite straight forward, but the next sentence has me somewhat confused. It reads: 
There would be other cases which have been heard by the courts but in which the results of the hearing have yet to be transmitted to the Department of Social Security. 
Another sentence reads: 
In this period approval has been given in 38 cases for prosecution for making incorrect statements about employment or earnings but these prosecutions have not yet been heard, or advice of the outcome has not yet been received in the Department. 
Is the Department actually aware of all prosecutions that come before the court? If it is it would seem to me that in the initial sentence which refers to 9 persons being prosecuted mention could have been made of the other cases that were heard by the court. I am confused by that part of the answer and perhaps the Minister might be able to explain it. A further part of the answer said: 
There have been other prosecutions under the Crimes Act. Such prosecutions were instituted by the Commonwealth Police and full details are not held by my Department. 
I would like to know whether the Minister can inform the Senate what sort of prosecutions are made under the Crimes Act and why they would be made under the Crimes Act and not under the Social Services Act. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Will restrictions on the use of consultants and reductions in overtime and travel for public servants be likely to adversely affect the administration of welfare services in Australia; if so, will the Minister provide the Senate with specific details of how these staffing reductions are likely to affect the management of the Department of Social Security and the services administered by that Department. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon nonce: 
1 ) How many persons have been prosecuted so far this year for continuing to accept a weekly cheque for unemployment benefit after commencing work and of such prosecutions how many have been successful. 
How many persons have been prosecuted so far this year for drawing several cheques for unemployment benefit using different names and of such prosecutions how many have been successful. 
What has been the total cost to the Australian Government of prosecutions launched in these two categories so far this year. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Prime Minister given any instructions to Ministers on the maximum time limit to be observed in the provision of replies to Questions on Notice; if so, what are those instructions. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea pay an official visit to Australia from 3 to 6 March. 
) What is the estimated cost of the visit. 
3 ) Who will meet the cost. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has  Mr Ray  McHenry been appointed to the personal staff of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
What is  Mr McHenry  's designation and salary. 
Was  Mr McHenry  formerly an officer of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
Did  Mr McHenry  resign from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to accept a position on the Minister's staff; if he did, why was this necessary. 
What was  Mr McHenry  's designation and salary at the time of his departure from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs visit Queensland during the week commencing 19 February 1976. 
During that trip, did the Minister visit Aurukun; if so, how long were the Minister and his party at Aurukun. 
Who accompanied the Minister on his visit to Aurukun. 
Did the Minister have discussions with the Aboriginal community at Aurukun relating to the dispute between the community and the Queensland Government on the Queensland Government's decision to allow mining on tribal lands in the Aurukun region; if so, what were the results of those discussions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the establishment of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Queensland. 
In view of the Queensland Premier's attitude to the Commonwealth's activities in Aboriginal Affairs, is it planned to retain the Queensland Branch of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in its present form, and at its present establishment; if not, what establishment is envisaged for the Department in Queensland. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Is  Mr Harry  Giese currently on the staff of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs; if so, what position does  Mr Giese  hold. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 

 Mrs Rex Syddell, who were last reported in December as being at Tutuala, East Timor. 
1 ) Does the Attorney-General agree with a prediction made in the Melbourne  Age  of 18 February 1976 by the  President  of the Law Institute of Victoria that, at the current rate of applications to the Family Law Court in Victoria, that State will have a backlog of over 18 000 cases at the end of 1976 if more judges are not appointed. 
Does a similar state of affairs exist in other parts of Australia. 
If there is a backlog, or if one is anticipated, why have more judges not been appointed to the Family Court. 
Will the Attorney-General's announcement of a reduction of $1.5 million in expenditure on the Family Law Court in this financial year increase the crisis apparently existing at present. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it a fact that the relay station which links Blackwater with the Australian Broadcasting Commission television station at Rockhampton could, as of Monday, relay television programs to Blackwater but, in fact, will not commence television transmission until 12 April? Could the Minister advise the Senate whether the residents of Blackwater are being deprived of television reception because they must await the arrival of the honourable member for Kennedy,  Mr Katter,  for the official opening ceremony of the station on 12 April? Finally, will the Minister take urgent steps to see that transmission commences as soon as possible and notify the Senate accordingly? 
Together with my colleagues on this side of the Senate, I, too, support this legislation. With this legislation before us, we are given the opportunity to look at some aspects of university and post-secondary education in Australia. I wish to confine my remarks principally to university education. Taking a lead from the honourable senator who preceded me, I will be somewhat parochial too, and speak on one of the major institutions in my own State. 
Before I do so, let me point out some of the increases which have occurred in Commonwealth expenditure on education throughout Australia. Most honourable senators would know of the increases. But let me refer to some of those increases from 1959-60 to 1973-74. I ask for leave of the Senate to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which shows Commonwealth grants to the States for education as a proportion of State government expenditure on education for 1959-60 to 1973-74. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="067232197603314_24_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Senate. An examination of that table reveals that in 1959-60 the current expenditure on education by the Commonwealth was $25m. In 1973-74 that expenditure had risen to $4 14m. It is important to look at that expenditure by the Commonwealth as a percentage of total expenditure on education by the States. Current expenditure on education by the Commonwealth as a percentage of State government expenditure on education increased from 10 per cent in 1959-60 to 29 per cent in 1973-74. 
In the area of capital expenditure on education, the escalation of Commonwealth expenditure is even more apparent. In 1959-60 this expenditure was $12m. By 1973-74 it had increased to $230m. As a percentage of State government expenditure on education, capital expenditure by the Commonwealth in 1959-60 was 14 per cent and had risen to 53 per cent by 1973-74. 
The fact that Commonwealth spending has increased so markedly quite naturally invites the question from a number of people in the community whether such expenditure is justified. Sometimes we see statements which suggest that we are not getting value for the amount of money that we are putting into this field. I do not agree with this sort of argument. I think it is somewhat fortunate that we have a number of commissions which provide much of the necessary information for those who seek such justification. I indicate this to bring back to mind the amount of money that is being spent by this Government on education throughout Australia. 
At this stage I would like to mention some aspects of finance and other matters in relation to the University of Queensland. The University of Queensland, of course, is not the only university in Queensland. There are 2 others. I am speaking principally about the University of Queensland for 2 main reasons. The main reason is that it is the largest of the universities in Queensland and its recent enrolment seems to suggest that it might be the largest in terms of total number of students throughout Australia. The other reason why I am speaking about the University of Queensland is that I have a long association with it. I spent many years there as a student. I would like to give some of the background of that university. 
The University of Queensland was founded in 1909 and teaching work commenced there in 191 1. At that time there were 3 faculties, namely arts, science and engineering, and the aggregate number of enrolments was far different from what it is today- it was 83 students, 3 of whom were external students. At the beginning of 1976 the number of faculties was thirteen. These were: Arts, agricultural science, engineering, commerce and economics, science, law, music, social work, dentistry, medicine, architecture, education and veterinary science. This gives an indication of the wide variety of teaching which is carried out at the University of Queensland. The aggregate number of students at the beginning of 1976 was slightly in excess of 1 8 000. 
The whole of the university was originally accommodated in the former Government House building at the eastern end of George Street in Brisbane. In order to meet the expansion which was taking place it was necessary to obtain the use of other buildings on the George Street site and to acquire or erect buildings in other parts of Brisbane. The university activities are now carried out on a number of" sites, the principal one being at St Lucia. The university site at St Lucia was acquired through the generosity of the late  Dr J.  O. Mayne and the late Miss Mayne of Auchenflower, who provided the sum of £60,000 for the purchase of the property. Honourable senators will realise, of course, that the £60,000 had a very high purchasing power in those days. The site was handed over to the university on 19 June 1930. The total area of the site, including 19 acres added by the State Government in 1941, is 242 acres. It includes 7 sites of approximately 5 acres each for university colleges. The foundation stone of the main building on the St Lucia site was laid on 6 March 1937. Construction work commenced in 1937 but was suspended in 1942 owing to war conditions. I feel a certain amount of pride in that my father was one of the construction workers on the main building prior to his being drafted into the Civil Construction Corps. 
I mentioned earlier that of the original students three were external students. I want to make some comments about external students at the University of Queensland. In fact the University of Queensland was the first university in Australia to provide courses  which  did not require students to attend regular classes on campus. For a short period at the end of the Second World War external enrolments rose to 42 per cent of total enrolments. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  another table which shows the number of students at the University of Queensland from 1950 to 1975 and which gives the numbers of external students as a proportion of the total enrolment. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="067232197603314_26_1.jpg"></graphic>

An examination of this table shows that since the mid-1950s the proportion of external students has fallen from 36 per cent to slightly less than 16 per cent in 1975 and 1976. Although external enrolments have fallen as a proportion of total enrolments, the number of such enrolments increased steadily until the 1960s when it became fairly constant at approximately 2600. Numbers rose again in 1970 and reached a peak of 3479 in 1974. This rise has been partly due to a decision of the university in 1970 to liberalise its rules for external enrolments of graduates at the university resident in the Brisbane metropolitan area and in other States. 
In the last 2 years the external enrolments have dropped. It is not quite clear why they have dropped, but there seem to be 2 reasons why this might have been so. A number of external students enrolled at the University of Queensland come from the Northern Territory and it could have been that the Darwin cyclone resulted in a substantial drop in students enrolling in 1975 and 1976. There could perhaps be another reason. Unfortunately the University of Queensland recently has been forced to introduce quotas. This may have meant that some potential external students were unsure of their position in relation to quotas. 
As a one-time external student I am mindful of the significance of allowing students to study externally. The first half of my undergraduate degree was pursued as an external student while I was a teacher in country areas. It would have been impossible for me at that stage to attend the university as an internal student or as a part-time student. Along with many of my teacher colleagues at that time I was able to obtain credit for a number of university subjects as an external student. I was perhaps somewhat fortunate in that I was able to take both external studies and internal studies as a part-time student. Some of my teacher colleagues have in fact completed all of their degree studies as external students. It is not only teachers who have been able to undertake external studies but also other public servants, bank clerks and so on, who have to undertake country service at certain times. I think it is because of this that a number of people have been given an opportunity in life that they would not normally have been given. For this reason I think the university of Queensland is to be applauded in that it has for a long time had external studies available to people who could not attend the campus itself. 
Following the report of the Committee on Open Tertiary Education in Australia a good deal of optimism prevailed amongst the administration and staff associated with external studies at the University of Queensland. There was this optimism because it could be seen that perhaps external studies could be expanded and the total outlook of external studies could be made much wider and given a greater dimension. Due to the contraction of funds, however, much of this optimism unfortunately has dissipated. 
In fact because of the reduction of numbers of students, due perhaps to those 2 circumstances that I have outlined, there has been a consequential reduction in staff in the external studies department. Because of restrictions on finance I have been informed that the external students are facing a problem in that it is possible to mail their notes out now only once a month rather than mail them out once a week. Those who have studied externally know that problems are created when one month's notes come at the one time. I look forward to the time when finance is again available so that the external studies, not only at the University of Queensland but also at other universities, will be expanded. 
The fact that this year has been set out as a year outside the triennium has created problems not only for the University of Queensland but also for other universities. I think that some of the problems which face the University of Queensland because this year is outside the triennium are unique. I think it would be of interest to honourable senators to quote from the 1975 report of the Vice-Chancellor of Queensland in which he outlines some of the problems which are now facing the University of Queensland. He stated:  1975 was the last year of a triennium, though 1 976 will not see the start of the next one. The national budget decisions taken in 1975 provided for the postponement of the start of the triennium until 1977, leaving 1976 as a standstill year. The decision of the Government was made on financial grounds, and on our present understanding- and there has been a change of government- we shall receive for 1976 specific grants for recurrent expenses, for equipment and research which will be supplemented for cost rises. On the capital side, the picture is dismal; while the Sixth Report of the Universities Commission recommended the largest building programme of all universities for the University of Queensland, we shall in fact have no building money for 1976. 
In these respects 1 975 ended on a note of deep disappointment: it is a serious blow to University planning to suffer an interruption to the triennial programming which has allowed us, in company with our sister universities, to make significant progress over the last decade and a half. The delay in the building programme means that much needed facilities will not be available to us at the anticipated time. As a lawyer, I regret particularly the postponement of construction of a law building, which in company with buildings for psychology and education, was at an advanced planning stage when the axe fell. Recommendations are to be made for the triennium 1977-79 early in 1976 and it is of critical importance that the building programme is reinstated and, above all, that we return to the system of financing which has made it possible for the Australian universities to progress. 
-There is no date on it. It is the Vice-Chancellor's report for 1975. The point I make is that it was necessary for the Government to put 1976 out of the triennium. This has created hardships. I look forward to the day when it is possible again to plan on a triennial basis for universities. I shall outline some of the hardships which have faced the University of Queensland because it will not receive any moneys this year for building. The sixth report of the Universities Commission stated that grants totalling $19,470,000 would be provided to the University of Queensland for the 1976-78 triennium. Included in this amount was the sum of $5.6m for an education, psychology and law building. When I quoted from the ViceChancellor's report I stated that he had said that as a lawyer he was saddened that this building would not go ahead. He said that there was a need for sufficient buildings for law students. As an educational psychologist I am equally saddened that the buildings for education and psychology have not gone ahead. 
In the $ 19.4m which was outlined the sum of $600,000 was provided for student services. The student services people work in very cramped conditions. The medical practitioners have very small consulting rooms. I think the nursing sisters work under considerable difficulties. They work under such cramped conditions that stretcher cases cannot be brought into them. I am hopeful that money will soon be made available for student services so that the medical services and the counselling services at the University of Queensland will have the new building which has been planned for them. 
In the amount of $ 19.4m, $600,000 has been allocated for new buildings at the Union so that the Student's Union can have facilities for clubs and societies. This building will not now go ahead. The Union will have to stay in cramped conditions. I mention these problems not simply because 1 976 had to be a year outside the triennium but because I think it is a year of tragedy for the University of Queensland. The administrators at the university were able to convince the Universities Commission of the need for $ 19.4m worth of buildings for the next 3 years. But because none of these buildings had such a high priority as did some of the other buildings at the other universities in Queensland- especially Griffith University- none of this money was made available and the university building program had to cease. 
I make the point that I look forward to a return of the triennial system of funding. I cannot agree with a colleague in the House of Representatives who made a suggestion that because other areas of government do not work within a 3-year plan, universities should not do so either. I believe that other government areas could take note of the orderly and planned development which can proceed with a plan which comes from a time span of greater than one year. I support the legislation. 
That is right; I will not be long. I refer to a question that I asked this afternoon. 
-I am saddened that the Minister to whom I directed the question is not present. I did notify him that I was going to speak on this matter. 
-When I spoke this afternoon I was speaking out of a wish that the people of Blackwater would be able to enjoy television programs, as many people throughout Australia are able to do. My purpose in asking whether the people of Blackwater would be able to receive television programs from the Australian Broadcasting Commission was not politically motivated, although I have found out since I asked the question that there has been a lot of political activity about this matter. I would just like to mention the main aspect of how this whole subject has become politically motivated, although not necessarily in the Senate. Apparently there has been some discussion in the Press in the Rockhampton area about a translator for Blackwater. People have been saying that it will not be opened until the Premier arrives but  Mr Katter  was reported in this morning's edition of the  Rockhampton Morning Bulletin  as saying: 
The Premier has nothing to do with television in Blackwater. It is my responsibility. 
That is the first that I have learnt of  Mr Katter  having a responsibility for television in Blackwater. There is one other aspect of the matter that I would like to mention. 
-I am referring to the elder Katter. The other aspect that I would like to mention is that, in the Minister's reply to me this afternoon, he said: 
It would be a matter of disappointment to the honourable senator that I am instructed that viewers are getting a full service during the test period. 
It would not be a matter of disappointment to me because, as I said, I raised this matter for the Blackwater people. The answer I received this afternoon is as follows: 
The translator has now been completed and is on test for 2 weeks. This is normal procedure before opening which is scheduled for 12 April. 
It is stated later on: 
Viewers are getting a full service during the test period unless there are some minor technical difficulties. 
Following upon people hearing the debate broadcast on the radio, I received a telegram this afternoon which suggested that this was not correct. So I made further inquiries this evening. The information that I have been given is that perhaps the Minister was misinformed this afternoon. The information that was given to me is that about 4 days of good pictures were obtained from this new translator in Blackwater up until about 2 weeks ago. Then there were no pictures at all. But this evening there was a colour test pattern broadcast on this particular channel. The people I spoke to said that this was not a very good program. I raise the matter because there seems to have been some misunderstanding. As I said this afternoon, I would like the Minister to look into this matter to see whether the people of Blackwater can obtain programs from this translator as soon as possible. I ask the Minister whether he can investigate this further, if he has not been able to do so already, to see whether the people there can be given the same opportunities enjoyed by people in other parts of Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Minister address the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee in Canberra on 5 March 1976. 
During the course of his speech, did the Minister mention that he had 'written to Aboriginal people throughout Australia explaining the effect on Aboriginal Affairs programs' of recent budget cuts; if so, what was the full text of the relevant letter. 
3 ) To whom was it sent. 
What was the total cost of producing and mailing the letter. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What are the details of any means tests applied by the Department of Social Security in relation to any forms of benefits made available to the public on application to that Department. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Can the Minister provide an estimate of how many 
age pensioners, 
invalid pensioners, and 
c) widow pensioners own the homes in which they live. 
Does the Department of Social Security offer any assistance to those pensioners who pay rates on their own property. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. The Minister will be aware that Queensland people have experienced long periods of inclement weather so far this year. He may also be aware that last weekend Brisbane residents were rewarded for their patience with some marvellous late March weather. Following that preface, I ask the Minister whether it is a fact that in a weather bureau telex released to newspapers on Monday, 29 March, the forecast for Brisbane city read in part: 'Fine and fantastic'. If so, will the Minister inform the Senate whether further refreshingly novel forecasts are likely to be issued in the future? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Minister confirm that the Honourable V. C. Gair has been recalled from his post as Australian Ambassador to the Republic of Ireland. 
When would  Mr Gair's  term normally have ended. 
Has a new Ambassador been appointed and, if so, what is his name and present designation. 
What other changes in diplomatic personnel have been required to facilitate this move. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the average waiting time between application for and receipt of (a) sickness benefit, (b) unemployment benefit, (c) age pension, (d) invalid pension, and (e) widows pension. 
What percentage of initial applications are found on investigation not to justify the receipt of benefit in each of the five categories. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Do all Commonwealth Public Servants travel economy class on airlines when on official business. 
Do staff of statutory bodies travel economy class when on official business. 
Do Justices of the High Court travel economy class when on official business. 
Do all members of the Commonwealth Parliament travel economy class when on Parliamentary business. 
Are there any plans to review travel arrangements and procedures for any of these four categories in the foreseeable future. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Have the guidelines for the use of VIP aircraft and VIP motor vehicles been varied since 11 November 1975; if so, what are the new guidelines. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What funds have been transferred from the Commonwealth to each State Government for the hospital side of Medibank since the inception of the Scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister provide details of the latest statistics relating to industrial accidents in Australia. 
What action does the Minister propose to take to reduce the level of industrial accidents in this country. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the State of Victoria asked the Federal Government for permission to charge $2 for each prescription handled by hospital pharmacies. 
Have any other States made similar representations. 
Is the Federal Government examining the proposal; if so, when is an announcement on the Government's decision likely to be made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia offered to pay out Medibank rebates at its members' offices throughout Australia; if so, when was the proposal first put to the Government. 
Has the Minister discussed the offer with officers of the Association. 
3 ) Will the proposal be accepted by the Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Treasurer received a letter from the Shire Clerk of the Pine Rivers Shire Council dated 18 February 1 976, in connection with the Sewerage Backlog Programme. 
Has the Treasurer discussed with his officers the Shire Council's request that the Council in future be given more notice regarding the allocation of funds; if so, what was the outcome of those discussions. 
Has approval been given for an extension of time in which the funds granted to the Council for 1975-76 may be expended; if so, what was the final decision, and when was it communicated to the Council. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is the Government considering the re-introduction of the old concessional taxation deduction system as a replacement for the easy-rebate system introduced in the Hayden Budget. 
Would the adoption of the old system mean an increase in pay as you earn contributions for most Australians. 
What effect would the re-introduction of the old system have on the adoption of tax indexation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is there likely to be considerable confusion among doctors about items which will not be on the National Health Scheme list after 1 April 1976. 
Is this a result of the Government's refusal to reprint doctors' drug manuals to delete drugs recently taken off the free list. 
If it is, will the Government reverse this decision in the light of claims by several chemists that doctors will continue to prescribe drugs no longer on the National Health Scheme list because of outdated drug manuals. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Government considering lifting the limit for automatic notification of price moves to the Prices Justification Tribunal; if so, is the limit to be increased from $20m to $50m. 
Is it likely that this move will affect the rate of price rises. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
How many persons have been admitted for residence in Australia in each year since 1966 who have, at the time of their arrival in Australia, had (a) no command of the English language, or(b) little command of the English language. 
What proportion of the total migrant intake is represented by the respective figures. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Has New Zealand recently ratified veterinary agreements that will make New Zealand beef acceptable to the European Economic Community. 
Does the Australian Government plan to similarly ratify the agreements so that Australia's surplus beef will have a better chance of being sold to the Community this year. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a short statement on the report just presented. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the clinic operated by the Karumba Progress Association at Karumba in North Queensland be forced to close within the next few months because the building in which it operates is required by the owners, Messrs Craig Mostyn and Co., for expansion purposes. 
Has the Minister received a submission from the Karumba Progress Association requesting funds totalling $9,000, this amount being 75 per cent of the total cost of the construction of a new clinic; if so, will the Minister undertake to give priority to this submission so that the Aboriginal community of Karumba will not be without a clinic should they lose the use of their present premises. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Did the  President  of the Fraser Island Defence Organisation,  Mr Sinclair,  allege that D.M. Minerals has breached the conditions of the lease under which the Company is mining on Fraser Island. 
Is one of the terms of the lease that a maximum area of 8 hectares is permitted to be kept unrehabilitated for each section dredge. 
Do photographs taken of the lease workings from an aircraft on 29 February 1976 show that more than 24 hectares has not been rehabilitated; if so, will the Minister cancel export licences granted by the Federal Government, on the grounds that environmental safeguards have not been strictly observed. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Was the restoration of the old Bellevue Hotel omitted from the Government's recently announced National Estate program for Queensland. 
Does the National Trust believe that the Bellevue Hotel is the most important urban conservation issue in Queensland. 
Did the State of Queensland make an application for funds to preserve the site. 
Will the Minister review this as a special case, and ensure that a beautiful historic Queensland building is not destroyed by neglect. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Were comments made in New Zealand last week, and reported in the Townsville  Daily Bulletin  of 13 March 1976, by the General Manager of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia,  Mr John  Cade, that in future health insurance funds in Australia will handle more Government business at a greatly reduced administrative cost to the nation. 
Does this mean that the Government intends handing over some of the functions of Medibank to the private health insurance funds. 
What undertaking has  Mr Cade  been given in this regard, even before the Medibank Review Committee has reported to the Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Toowoomba Development Board made official representations supporting the establishment of an Omega Navigation Station on the Darling Downs. 
Is this proposal being seriously considered. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) Have senior officials of the Department of Science been asked by the Bland Committee whether their work is really necessary, as was claimed in a report in the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  of 16 March 1976. 
Is the Minister aware of any moves to abolish his Department, or any sections of his Department, or any statutory bodies under his control; if so, what sections or statutory bodies are involved. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
How many (a) full-time, (b) part-time and (c) external students have enrolled for courses at each University and College of Advanced Education in Australia this year. 
What were the corresponding figures in 1975. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1) Is the Federal Government reconsidering its intention to end financial benefits for pensioners as reported in the newspaper the  Australian  on 4 March 1976; if not, when is the necessary legislation to be introduced to remove the provision for pensioner funeral benefits. 
If the report in the  Australian  is accurate, has the Minister now revised her stated opinion that the payment of funeral benefits appeared to be of little significance. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the Vice-President of the United States,  Mr Nelson  Rockefeller, and his wife, visit Australia from 29 March to 1 April 1976 as guests of the Australian Government. 
What is the estimated cost of the visit to the Australian Government. 
How many persons will be in the official party accompanying the Vice-President and his wife to Australia. 
Who will meet the cost of the visit for the members of the official party. 
Will the Australian Government be meeting the cost of members of the American Press who will be accompanying  Mr Rockefeller. 
I address to the Minister for Education a question which refers to a  statement in the  Sun-Herald  of 4 April 1-976 in which it is suggested that the Schools Commission, the Universities Commission, the Commission for Technical and Further Education and the Commission for Advanced Education may be abolished. Will the Minister inform the Senate whether this is likely to occur? If not, has the Minister discussed such a possibility with his departmental officers and are major changes to be expected in these 4 commissions in the near future? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Prime Minister aware that the Australian Music Centre has recently been established in the Rocks Area of Sydney to encourage creative musicians in Australia. 
Has the establishment of the Centre been possible because of a substantial grant from the Music Board of the Australia Council. 
Will the Prime Minister assure those associated with the Music Centre that sufficient Federal Government assistance will be forthcoming in the next Budget to enable the Centre to continue in operation and to expand its activities as originally planned. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister seen recent press comments by the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Queensland that the University is unable to embark on a reasonable building program until the Federal Government makes a decision on funding arrangements. 
Has the construction of a number of faculty buildings been postponed. 
Are the student medical and counselling services facing economic difficulties. 
When will the Minister provide the University with the finance it is seeking. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Did four Aboriginal men and women, a John Lester, Dianne Mumbler, Andrea Carriage and Neil Thorne graduate as primary school teachers from Armidale Teacher s College in 1975. 
Are they the first ever group of Aboriginal teachers to graduate in New South Wales. 
Were they originally offered jobs by the New South Wales Department of Education and has the Department reneged on its undertaking. 
Has the New South Wales Department of Education refused to take responsibility for the matter with the excuse, reported in the February edition of the New South Wales Teachers' Federation Journal,  Education,  that they are the Commonwealth's responsibility and the Commonwealth has been totally irresponsible: if so, what action is the Minister taking to assist these four young people to obtain teaching positions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Were the criticisms made, in the  Age  on 12 March 1976, by Captain Joe Salfass, a member of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots Technical Council, that existing air cargo regulations in Australia are inadequate and that hundreds if not thousands of violations go undetected each year. 
What steps are currently taken by the Department of Transport to police air freight safety requirements. 
How many prosecutions have been instigated each year since 1966 for offences against air freight safety regulations. 
What steps, if any, are being taken to make the regulations and the policing of them more stringent. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What Federal Government Grants to State Government instrumentalities and to private organisations and individuals in the State of Victoria were announced by Ministers in the Australian Government, or the Victorian Government, in the six weeks prior to 20 March 1 976. 
What was the total cost of each of the grants involved. 
I did not intend to rise to speak in the Committee stage of the Social Services Amendment Bill but, like  Senator Grimes,  I too have been provoked by the attitude expressed by the Minister for 
Social Security. It is an attitude of blackmail in what has been a mean and shabby deal in this chamber tonight. In the debate earlier the Minister did say that royal assent was necessary for this Bill and that therefore there was a sense of urgency about the Bill. When I spoke earlier tonight I said that the first time that an announcement was made about the abolition of funeral benefits was before this Parliament assembled. If this announcement was made before this Parliament assembled, why has it taken the Government until tonight to bring this legislation before the Senate? 
A government senator- What about your legislation? 
-You do not seem to have a spark of humanity in you. All you want to do is to get this legislation through. 
The  CHAIRMAN Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order, senator! I suggest that you address the Chair and ignore the interjections. 

 -Mr Chairman, I am provoked not only by the Minister's attitude but also by those people who want to see this benefit abolished. But more importantly, there should have been no urgency with this legislation. This Bill should have been presented to this chamber in time for honourable senators to have the opportunity to speak on it. If the Bill had been introduced earlier there would have been plenty of time for it to have a proper debate and for it then to obtain the necessary royal assent. 
I cannot see why the provisions concerning the funeral benefit were included with the provisions concerning pensions. It seems to me that what we have been told in this chamber is that if we do not pass the clauses relating to the funeral benefit we will be holding up benefits for pensioners. If the pensions are held up for any reason it will not be due to any fault of honourable senators on this side of the chamber; it will be due to the fault of honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber. 
I rise to support the amendment moved by my colleague,  Senator Grimes,  and seconded by my colleague,  Senator McAuliffe.  It had not been my intention to speak at length this evening about the pension provisions in this Bill. In fact originally I had not intended to speak on them at all, but not because I do not think pensions are important. They are indeed most important. Those people who have a recollection of some of my remarks when I first spoke in this chamber will remember that I dwelt on the subject of pensions and pension provisions at great length. I intended to speak mainly on the funeral benefit provisions and the abolition of the funeral benefit, because I thought it was the most mean and most uncalled for proposal that I have heard of since I entered this chamber. 
I shall speak very briefly about some aspects of the pension provisions in this Bill. I do so to answer some of the remarks made by previous speakers from the other side of the chamber. I think it is significant that  Senator Baume  did not speak on any aspects of the abolition of funeral benefit, but he said that the Bill would make more money available for pensioners. I do not disagree with his statment, but it is important to realise that, although more money is going to be made available for pensioners, in real money terms all we are doing is catching up with the situation which applied 6 months ago. In other words, we are not being overly generous. We are not being generous at all. All we are doing is keeping pensions at the level, in real money terms, at which they stood 6 months ago. 
The same honourable senator referred to handouts to people in the community. I take exception to the word 'handouts'. If people in the community need help from a government in the form of social service benefits they should not be regarded as being given a handout. They are being provided with finance so they can get through a rough time or so they can enjoy their retirement after they have worked for this nation all their lives. The pension which is paid to aged people is a right, so that those people can enjoy their later life after having worked for their fellow Australians who have since taken their place in the work force. 
Some of the arguments that were used by Government speakers gave me the impression that they were clutching at straws. A previous  speaker  in the debate said that because of the provisions of this Bill aged people will not be debarred from receiving a pension because of the value of their family home. It had always been my impression that the value of the family home was not taken into consideration in the pension means test. The same honourable senator said that the present Government will not implement its policies with the same inordinate haste that the present Opposition displayed when it was in government but that it would carry out orderly change. I claim that the present Government has done many things with inordinate haste, such as increasing pharmaceutical benefit charges, taking certain drugs off the pharmaceutical benefits list and those sorts of things which affect people on low incomes.  Senator Sheil,  who preceded me in the debate, said that the Government is being most generous to the pensioners. We are not being generous but are simply keeping the pension rate, in real money terms, at the level at which it stood 6 months ago. My final comment on this matter- I shall revert to it presently- is that  Senator Sheil  also said that the Government has put up its explanations in relation to the abolition of the funeral benefit. It certainly has put up its explanations, but let me deal with that presently and see what its explanations were. 
Before I touch on the abolition of the funeral benefit I would like to mention one final thing about pensions, and it concerns what the spokesman of the present Government said before the election last year. I want to know where are the instant and automatic increases in pensions, because the impression that the Australian people gained was that if the Liberal and National Country parties came to power there would be instant and automatic increases in pensions whenever there was an increase in the cost of living index. I shall quote from a statement that  Mr Chipp  made on 8 December 1975.  Mr Chipp  is no longer a Minister but he was a Minister at that time. He issued a statement headed 'Statement to Pensioners by the  Hon.  D. L. Chipp, Minister for Social Security'. In that statement he said: 
Both Parties - 
He is speaking about the Liberal and National Country parties -  have undertaken to increase pensions in line with the Consumer Price Index. We propose to bring in legislation which will allow increases in pensions to be made instantly and automatically as soon as the new Index is announced. This will eliminate the procedure now necessary of having to debate a Bill in Parliament in order to increase pensions. This procedure takes time and involves a delay of up to three months between the announcement of the increase in inflation and the increase in pensions going to the pensioners. Once and for all we want to take pensioners and their benefits out of the political arena and to make sure that they do not suffer erosion of their pension through inflation. This policy has been stated by  Mr Fraser  and myself many times. . . . 
I ask: Where in this Bill- of course, it is not in the Bill;- is there any indication that there will be instant and automatic increases? Where in this Bill does it say that we will not have to debate a Bill in Parliament? That is what we are doing at this moment. These are the sorts of things that were said before the election and these are the sorts of things that should be put before this Parliament following the return to power of the people who made these promises. 
As I said earlier, I had not intended to speak at length about pensions. My principal intention tonight was to speak, somewhat briefly I hope, on the funeral benefit and its abolition, because it seems to me that the abolition of the benefit is a most contemptible and uncalled for cut in pension benefits. It has antagonised people throughout the country. It has antagonised not only traditional Labor supporters and people who might be called swinging voters but also a great many people who are normally supporters of the present Government. 
I would like, first of all, to look at the historical background of funeral benefits in Australia. They were first introduced in 1943 by the Curtin Government. If one reads  Hansard  of those times one sees that there was very little mention of funeral benefits as such. The main debate was whether a country at war could afford to have a social security program. The Curtin Government, being a humane Government, put forward a social security program and in doing so introduced funeral benefits. When introducing th: amending legislation which was necessary the then Minister for Social Services,  Mr Holloway,  drew attention to the fact that many pensioners, because of the fear of being buried as paupers, contributed to pensioners mortuary funds which, for a small weekly outlay guaranteed them an amount which was sometimes around £ 1 0 towards the cost of a decent funeral. 

 Mr Holloway said that the purpose of the legislation was to relieve pensioners of this anxiety in their declining years and at the same time to make it possible for them to devote the full amount of their pension to their maintenance. I ask: If it was necessary in 1943 to introduce legislation so that pensioners would be relieved of the anxiety that they might not have a decent funeral, why is it that in 1 976 the Government thinks that this benefit is no longer necessary? 
Indeed, the cost of a funeral has escalated tremendously and the small amount which the Government provides towards that cost hardly scratches the surface. But surviving pensioner spouses and those people who find that they have to pay for the funeral of a pensioner in future will receive no help from the Government in respect of that cost. The basic pensioner funeral benefit has remained unchanged since 1943 at £10 or what is now $20, and since October 1965 the benefit for certain pensioners has been increased to $40. It has not been changed since then. I referred a moment ago to the fact that this benefit does not go anywhere near covering the cost of a funeral nowadays. In fact, the inadequacy of the benefit has been pointed out many times. On a number of occasions, in policy speeches preceding elections, attention has been directed to the inadequacy of this benefit. I do not intend any pun, but it seems to me that this benefit is not considered a real live political issue. It is not considered to be a political issue which will inspire people to vote for one party or the other. So, in recent years, no mention has been made of the funeral benefit in the course of federal election campaigns. 
Recently, the Committee of Inquiry into Poverty in its first main report made some comments on the funeral benefit. Amongst other things, it said- and what I will quote is fairly long: 
The rate of benefit now paid is laughable in relation to funeral costs and should either be abandoned or changed. 
It went on to say:   . . elderly people are known for their desire to receive a decent funeral and find security in the knowledge that it will be provided. Further, funeral expenses do sometimes cause hardship. Accordingly, grants should be made available to contribute to the cost of a modest funeral where: 
1 ) the pensioner leaves a surviving husband or wife and insufficient assets (excluding a house) to pay for the funeral; 
the pensioner leaves no surviving wife or husband, and leaves total assets insufficient to pay for the funeral. 
The report says finally: 
If these conditions prove too complex, a grant worth (say) 4 weeks pension should be made towards the funeral expenses of pensioners eligible for supplementary assistance at the full rate and to pensioners responsible for paying the funeral costs of other pensioners (the present higher rate of eligibility). 
The point which I wish to make in respect of that quotation is that if the Government thought that there were some people in the community who were receiving this benefit who did not really need it that was not a good case on which to throw out the whole benefit for everybody. It seems to me that a more humane attitude would have been to examine the matter fully and decide those people in the community who really needed this benefit, provide the benefit to them, and provide it at an adequate rate. The application of the funeral benefit could have been changed in this way and not by throwing out the whole scheme completely, which is what this legislation proposes to do. Many people in our community will be hit hard by the abolition of this benefit. These are the people who should have been looked after before any action was taken to throw the whole scheme out. 
Let me move now to the circumstances relating to the original announcement that this benefit would be abolished. By the way, this announcement was made before this Parliament was called together. As a new senator who had been recently elected but who had not yet come into this chamber to be able to voice his opinion in this forum of the national Parliament, it disturbed me that such an announcement would be made before the Parliament was called together as, in this way, senators and members in the House of Representatives would not be able to use Parliament at that stage to voice their opinions. Part of the Press statement announcing this change was in these words: 

 Senator Guilfoyle said that the Government had decided to abolish one social security benefit. This was the payment of funeral benefits ranging to a maximum of $40 according to circumstances. 
This benefit would be abolished at an annual saving of $1.7m.  Senator Guilfoyle  said this benefit appeared to be of little significance . . . 
I wonder how little significance it is to the person who is scratching to live from one pension day to another. It is of great significance to such people. 
There were reactions throughout the nation to this announcement. Let me read a typical reaction that I saw. It was a reaction that many people in this chamber may not have seen because it appeared in a Brisbane newspaper; it was written by a journalist and was not a letter to the Editor. One of the journalists of the Brisbane  Telegraph  wrote: 
Mean and miserable 
You didn't believe it? I didn't believe it either, not until I had read it a second time- 
The Minister for Social Security,  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle, said the Government had decided to cut out the funeral benefit for pensioners because it appeared to be of little significance'. 
Good God! 
That benefit is the paltry sum of $40 paid to the pensioner wife or husband of a pensioner- but subject, remember, to a shockingly stringent means test. 
Insignificant? To the impoverished bereaved it can be anything but; its withdrawal simply will add more hardship to bitter hardship. 
The article continues in similar vein. This to me was the reaction that I saw not only in Brisbane where this newspaper was published but everywhere that I went in my electorate of Queensland and throughout the rest of Australia as well. 
I wish to revert now to something that I mentioned earlier and to which I said I would return. That is the statement by the previous  speaker, Senator Sheil,  who said that the Government has put up its explanations for this action. What explanations did it put up in that announcement that I read from the Minister's Press statement? Let me repeat that part and continue the quotation. It reads:   . . this benefit appeared to be of little significance particularly as the Government had decided to continue the payment for 12 weeks of the combined married rate of pension to the surviving partner in cases where a married pensioner died. 
To me, that statement was deliberately misleading. This benefit had been payable since 1968. When it was introduced no mention was made that that benefit was to be substituted for the funeral benefit. It was an additional benefit. It was a benefit that was introduced to help pensioners over what would be a very rough time for them, a time when a pensioner's partner died. 
In the second reading speech delivered in the House of Representatives, the same sort of argument was used. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  said: 
The Government has decided that although the funeral benefit is to be abolished, the 'double pension' provisions will continue. 
How generous! How generous that they should continue because the Government has abolished one benefit. This is a different benefit altogether. This was the explanation that the Government put up. The Minister who is responsible for this Bill in this chamber implied to the general public that it was quite satisfactory to eliminate the benefit because the Government was to continue another provision which had been included years ago. She wrote to members and senators in the Liberal and National Country Parties and in her letter to them said: 
Attached is a copy of a letter that I sent yesterday in reply to a representation on the Funeral Benefit. 
I am intending to adopt this form of words to reply to future representations I receive on this matter. You may wish to do the same. 
The letter to a constituent in Victoria read: 
The Prime Minister, the  Hon.  Malcolm Fraser, M.P., forwarded to me for reply your recent letter concerning the abolition of the Funeral Benefit. 
Early this year the Government undertook a review of expenditure in all Departments in an endeavour to reduce administrative costs and Government expenditure. A number of programs and items were reduced, deferred or abolished and one of the decisions taken by the Government was to abolish the Funeral Benefits Scheme for pensioners from 1 April 1976. 
The Government has decided that although the Funeral Benefit will be abolished, the payment of married couple rate pension will continue for 12 weeks following the death of the pensioner spouse. 
Yours sincerely, MARGARET GUILFOYLE 
I did not come across that letter by any surreptitious means. It appeared in my mail box here at Parliament House. 
-I was pleased to find out we all got one because I was somewhat upset that people might have thought I belonged to the Liberal Party. This letter is deliberately misleading. It is misleading because when the double rate pension was introduced it was introduced to tide people over a period when they had to adjust their income after their spouse had died.  Mr McMahon  introduced this in the Budget Speech in 1968. He did not say too much about the benefit, but amongst some minor other things he said: 
To relieve the difficulties faced by the surviving partner of a married pensioner couple and to help these pensioners to adjust to a single pension, the Government has decided that the equivalent of the combined pension will be paid to the survivor for 12 weeks after one of them dies. 
There is a lot of adjustment in these circumstances. Think of the things that a surviving partner might be faced with. Such a person might have half finished repainting the home and still have to make payments on it. Such a person might have been buying a refrigerator on hire purchase and still have payments to make. This provision was introduced to cover these things so that the pensioner could adjust to the time when he or she changed to a single rate pension. 
It seems to me that abolition of the funeral benefit was a move made by the Government which could well have been left alone. If the Government thought that it was necessary to change the provision for the funeral benefit I would have thought that it would have brought forward a better scheme before scuttling the old one.  Senator McAuliffe  appealed to the Minister to do something about this provision before it was too late. I shall make the same appeal, although I think that my appeal will probably fall upon deaf ears. If it does, I make an appeal to any honourable senator opposite who has a spark of humanity in him, who thinks of the plight of pensioners, who thinks of what this will mean to the pensioners who find themselves in very poor circumstances after their partner dies, to vote with the Opposition so that the pensioners of Australia will not be faced with having this benefit taken from them. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What funds has the Royal Flying Doctor Service received from the Australian Government for each financial year from and including the financial year 1 970-7 1 . 
For each of these years, what percentage of the funds provided by the Australian Government was in (a) direct grants, and (b) subsidy. 
Will funding for the Royal Flying Doctor Service be affected by the recent austerity measures announced by the Government. 
Is it envisaged that funding of the Royal Flying Doctor Service will be increased in the 1 976-77 Budget. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What date has been set for the completion of the inquiry into Medibank chaired by  Mr Austin  Holmes. 
When does the Government expect to receive the final report. 
Have any interim reports been received to date. 
Will the Minister table the final report and recommendations of the Holmes Committee in the Parliament, together with any interim reports that may have been received, so that they may undergo public examination and criticism prior to the formulation of the 1976-77 Budget. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Are pollution control devices planned for the two new frigates on order from the United States for the Australian Navy; if so, will these devices completely eliminate pollution sources from the ships. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1) Is the Treasury studying a scheme designed to inject about $300 million at low interest rates into a consortium which is developing oil reserves on the North West Shelf. 
Has an official approach regarding this proposal been made to the Federal Government by the consortium. 
What companies are involved in the consortium. 
Has an interest rate on the loan between 5 per cent and 7 per cent been suggested. 
Is the Government seeking equity in the development of the North West Shelf reserves. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister seen comments by  Mr Rex  Syddell, a former Australian resident of East Timor, who alleges that FRETILIN troops killed five Australian newsmen at Balibo in October 1975. 
Is the Minister also aware of claims by a former Australian Consul in Dili,  Mr James  Dunn, that the five newsmen were killed by Indonesian forces. 
Has the Minister received any additional information since his last official statement on this matter which will shed light on these two conflicting claims. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the official reason for the recent overseas visit undertaken by the Governor-General. 
Was the Governor-General accompanied by his wife, an aide-de-camp, a valet, a maid and two security agents. 
Did the party stay at the Connaught Hotel in London at a total cost of $300 per day. 
Did the Governor-General leave one hotel in Paris and move to another in the same city; if he did, what was the cost for the Governor-General and his party in each hotel. 
Did the Governor-General tour Tuscany in a Mercedes Benz, and was the total cost of this tour borne by the Australian taxpayers. 
What was the total cost of the overseas visit by the Governor-General and his party. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did a delegation from the World Bank recently visit Australia; if so, what was the composition of the delegation. 
Did the delegation's mission include ascertaining from the Australian Government the level of financial and other aid Australia intends providing to Papua New Guinea this year; if so, what information was the delegation given. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the practice of requiring Ministers in the Senate to represent Ministers in the House of Representatives and to answer Questions Without Notice on their behalf leave much to be desired. 
Were proposals previously made in the Senate for Ministers from the House of Representatives to be invited to this Chamber, from time to time, to answer Questions Without Notice. 
Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate discuss with the Prime Minister the possibility of adopting such a reform, at least on a trial basis. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Senators and Members of the House of Representatives have availed themselves of the services of a Research Officer. 
How many of these Research Officers are (a) full-time and (b) part-time. 
Is the salary provided for Research Officers, particularly those working on a full-time basis, inconsistent with the duties required of them; if so, will the Minister inquire into the salary and conditions of Research Officers employed by Members of Parliament with a view to tying their salary to a recognised Public Service grading. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister seen press reports of various submissions presented to the Medibank Review Committee by interested organisations. 
Has press coverage been particularly given to submissions from the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia and the Australian Council of Social Services. 
Were these submissions released to the press by the organisations themselves, or by the Committee. 
Will the Minister provide interested Senators and Members of the House of Representatives with copies of all submissions presented to the Committee. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to provide loans at concessional terms to developing countries. 
Will this be made possible by an interest subsidy fund to which nine countries have so far announced a willingness to contribute a combined amount of S 1 1 7m. 
Does the list of contributing countries include the United Kingdom, Denmark, Norway and Canada. 
Will Australia be contributing to the fund; if so, how much will be contributed; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs costed the major items contained in the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission's Report on Rural Reconstruction Assistance; if so, will the Minister provide a detailed summary of the estimated cost of implementing each of the major recommendations of the Report. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Pharmacy Guild of Australia notified its members of a $ 1 00 levy to establish a $500,000 fund for the purpose of fighting the Government on national health issues. 
Is the Guild about to issue a High Court Writ to force the Government to arbitration on the issues in dispute following the 'Scott Inquiry' into Chemists' Earnings, Costs and Profits. 
What action is the Government taking to fulfil its election promise of re-opening negotiations with the Guild and bringing to a satisfactory conclusion the 'Scott Inquiry'. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Pharmacy Guild of Australia made a suggestion that the Department of Health establish an ombudsman or a properly constituted grievance committee under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme in order that complaints may be thoroughly investigated. 
Does the Minister intend instituting a reform of this nature. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Pharmacy Guild of Australia been waiting over two years for pre-printed Repeat Authorisation Forms: if so, what is the reason for the delay. 
When can their introduction be expected. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will the Government implement the recommendations on pharmacy contained in the House of Representatives' Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits released in May 1972. 
What would be the estimated cost t of implementing the recommendations. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the composition and aims of the National Compensation Insurance Industry Committee of 335 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 
Is the Committee financed from policy-holders' funds; if so, is there justification for the use of policy-holders' funds in advertising campaigns waged against national compensation proposals in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Prime Minister seen an article by Peter Costigan in the Melbourne  Herald  of 13 March 1976, in which it is claimed that the Prime Minister created security problems by insisting on travelling to New Zealand on a commercial aircraft. 
Were other passengers on the Qantas Airways Ltd's aircraft taking  Mr Fraser  and his party to New Zealand seriously inconvenienced by the security precautions taken. 
Did the presence of a number of security guards on the flight create an air of tension for the other passengers. 
Has the Government received any complaints from the airline, or from any passengers, over this matter. 
Was a Royal Australian Air Force aircraft of No. 34 Squadron made ready for a flight to New Zealand on the date of  Mr Fraser's  departure; if so, why was the Air Force's aircraft not used for the trip instead of a commercial aircraft. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has  Dr Coombs  met with any representatives of the Torres Strait Islanders in relation to the border dispute between Australia and Papua New Guinea; if so, when and where did the meetings take place, and with whom. 
) What decisions, if any, were reached. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Does section 1 59v of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1975 permit private rates and land taxes, up to a limit of $300 paid by the taxpayer in respect of a dwelling, flat or home unit used as the taxpayer's sole or principal residence, to qualify for a rebate. 
Did a  Mr John  Marriott, Lecturer in Public Finance and Accounting at Latrobe University, in the Australian Municipal Journal of February 1976, claim that the real value of the present deduction limit is now inappropriate due to the effects of inflation. 
Will the Treasurer seriously consider  Mr Marriott's  suggestion that the Australian Government index the $300 deduction limit. 
Alternatively, will the Treasurer agree to an immediate upward adjustment of the limit. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Have low lambings since 1973 caused grave concern amongst graziers in central and northern Queensland; if so, will this have a serious effect on the volume of wool produced over the next few years. 
Has the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization carried out any research into this problem; if not, will the Minister urgently investigate whether funds can be made available to that Organization to enable it to assist the Queensland Department of Primary Industries to pinpoint the reasons for the low lambing. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Has draft legislation been drawn up by the New South Wales Government under which wheat growers could be fined up to $100 for sowing, harvesting or selling a nonprescribed variety of grain. 
Have suggestions for similar penal provisions been made in other States. 
Is the Australian Wheat Board now seeking to control wheat acceptance without resorting to State legislation. 
Would these controls include a system of dockages on grain delivery. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Are two wards at the Wolston Park Hospital at Wacol in Queensland classified as closed. 
Are the remainder classified as rehabilitation wards. 
Does the Department of Social Security differentiate between patients who are in closed wards and those in rehabilitation wards for the purpose of determining (a) invalid pension, and (b) sickness benefit; if so, what is the Departmental policy involved. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has the Minister seen an article in the Brisbane  Sunday Sun of 2%  March 1976, which claims that pensioners will now find it harder to cash social welfare cheques, because of the introduction of new anti-fraud regulations by the Commonwealth Bank. 
What are the new regulations involved. 
Is the Department of Social Security aware of any cases of fraud involving the cashing of social security cheques with the Commonwealth Bank; if so, how many. 
Will the Minister take the matter up with officials of the Commonwealth Bank to ensure that pensioners are inconvenienced as little as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What has been the cost of providing (a) VIP aircraft and (b) VIP motor vehicles, for use by Governors-General for each financial year since 1969-70. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation been asked to provide a detailed security check on any persons proposed for appointment to Ministerial staff since 1 1 November 1 975; if so, what form do these checks take. 
Has the Prime Minister or the Minister for Administrative Services had occasion to refuse permission for any person to assume responsibilities on any Minister's staff since 11 November 1975; if so, how many persons have been refused, and for what reason were they refused. 
Will the Prime Minister table copies of the official form or forms which the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation use to provide security checks on persons proposed for appointment to Ministerial staff. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Did the Government promise during the 1975 Federal Election Campaign to establish a Rural Bank; if so, when is it intended that the necessary legislation will be introduced into the Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Canadian Government asked the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories to make available between 5 million and 10 million doses of vaccine against swine flu. 
Will the Department of Health be in a position to provide the quantity of vaccine required. 
Will the Department also be able to meet Australia's demand for the vaccine. 
I  present the following petition from 78 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That reduction of the age limit from six years to eighteen months for patients eligible to receive cows' milk substitutes as a Pharmaceutical benefit under the schedules of the National Health Act will cause serious financial hardship to many families; 
That the Government 's action is responsible for a severe increase in the cost of cows' milk substitutes which penalise parents of children aged eighteen months and over who have a medical need for these substitutes. 
That there is an urgent, humane need to restore cows' milk substitutes to children up to six years of age to the schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that cows' milk substitutes be restored to the Schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits for children up to the age of six years as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is related to reports of a meeting held in Brisbane last week between the Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  and the Papua New Guinea Minister for Information and Broadcasting,  Dr Taureka.  Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the Australian Government has been officially informed that subsequent to this meeting the Queensland Government announced that it offered a technical aid scheme to Papua New Guinea? If so, when did the Australian Government receive that advice and from whom? Is it usual practice for State governments to undertake aid and assistance agreements with foreign powers without reference to the Australian Government? Finally, has the Australian Government had any indication from the Government of Papua New Guinea whether it shall accept the aid which the Queensland Government offered? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I preface it by referring to a statement made yesterday by the Minister for Transport.  Mr Nixon  was reported to have come out in strong support of a second north-south runway at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. I ask the Minister: Can one reasonably infer from this statement that further expensive work for Sydney airport will receive priority over the work necessary to bring Brisbane airport up to a standard which befits a State capital of Australia? Finally, does the Minister expect that the Bureau of Transport Economics' paper on the Brisbane airport, currently on the notice paper as an order of the day, will be debated by the Senate, or is it likely that the needs of the Brisbane people will be conveniently disregarded? 
-I should like to ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport a supplementary question. It formed part of the previous question but was not answered. Does the Minister expect that the paper to which I referred will be debated by the Senate? 
This evening I wish to make a few comments on difficulties that people in the community are facing because of changes in the pharmaceutical benefits list. I believe that many people are nowadays finding it increasingly difficult financially because of what the Government had done with the pharmaceutical benefits list. One of the most unfortunate aspects is that all of the changes that have been made to the list have been made without reference to this Parliament. The changes have been made by regulation only. Some of the effects that have resulted have occurred because of two main reasons. One is that many items have been withdrawn from the pharmaceutical benefits list and other items have been reduced in the quantity that can be obtained at one time. One of the effects of this is that persons are being required to pay highly increasing costs for medical treatment. This occurs when medical practitioners are still prescribing treatment which requires drugs which have been taken off the pharmaceutical benefits list. People are being required to pay increasing amounts for these drugs or medical preparations. An alternative effect is-I believe this is happeningthat some people are neglecting their health care because they cannot afford the costs. 
A third effect has been that some people are having to make more visits to medical practitioners because some of the medical preparations have a reduced repeat rate. This seems to me to create an effect which might not have been looked at when the Government took some of these medical preparations from the pharmaceutical benefits list. This results in cost increases, not only to the people concerned but also to the Government in the costs that will be paid through Medibank in respect of people going back to medical practitioners for an increased number of scripts. I do not intend to speak at length but I should like to quote to the Senate a copy that I received today of a letter that a constituent in Brisbane sent to the Secretary of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Council. This points out the difficulties faced by one person in the community, but I think they are difficulties that would be reflected over the entire Australian community. The letter reads as follows: 
The Secretary, 
Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Council, 
Department of Health, 
Woden. 
Dear  Sir, 
It is with regret and with personal suffering I view the latest restriction concerning anti-histamines and soya bean products. I am a member of an allergenic family. I have never considered this a particular disadvantage because with modern drugs and treatment we all keep well and maintain a useful function in society. 
However since December we have faced one financial burden after another because of the function of the Health Department. We, on my husband's $110 a week 'bring home' pay, have managed to absorb the rise in chemists prescriptions, aided by my pan-time earnings. 
My husband is asthmatic and uses (4) drugs. My son aged 8 has chronic allergic rhinitis and uses (3) drugs. My daughter and I with a milder rhinitis ( 1 ) each (i.e. 9 prescriptions at $2 each every 4 or 5 weeks). One sister has 5 allergenic members in her family and another sister two allergenic children. We continue to pay into medical benefits because of the uncertainty of the government's intent re Medibank (if we leave now and rejoin we may lose our allergy claims). These restrictions may save government expense but surely discriminate against an already disadvantaged group of people mainly because this is a familiar complaint. 
Of course we can use the simple  anti-histamines  but the more recent long acting drugs are better- as this law is only the privileged can enjoy the fruits of modern medical research. 
One more comment. If one member of your Board lived in Brisbane with the warm days and cold nights so devastating allergy sufferers or had any of your members reared small children through babyhood fighting asthma and sinus infections perhaps your decision would have been more humane. 
We do have free hospitals here. With the long wait in crowded outpatients quite often the children contact more disease and the adult section 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. would force I or my husband to take off work days losing even more money. 
As things are now my family would be just as well off if my husband went on the Invalid Pension with time to sit around and wait for free drugs. 
I can see a time when people with an allergenic history are forced to remain childless because it will economically be impossible to have children. 
I hope your members are able to rethink this  discrimatory  restriction before the quality of treatment for asthmatics and other allergenic sufferers is back where it was 10 years ago. 
I remain. Yours faithfully 
I am not sure what sort of notice the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Council takes of such letters which come to it from the public. I am not sure that the contents of that letter bring forward to the Council the medical and pharmaceutical reasons for or proposing recommendations to the Government but it does illustrate the human element involved in some changes to the pharmaceutical benefits list. I hope that when this letter reaches that Council, and if similar letters reach it, it takes into account not only any medical factors raised but the human factors as well. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Pharmacy Guild of Australia recently put forward a submission to the Government, that the patient signature requirement for prescription medicines in Australia is costing millions of dollars annually, and should be dropped. 
Did  Mr Rupert  Frew, the  Chairman  of the Guild's National Health Committee, claim in the Guild's 1975 National Report that the Department of Health's reply to the submission was that we would not even put it to Treasury. 
Will the Minister recall the submission for personal study and evaluation by him, and subsequently advise the Senate of the results of his inquiries. 
-I present the following petition from 163 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble Petition respectfully showeth: 
That reduction of the age limit from six years to eighteen months for patients eligible to receive cows' milk substitutes as a Pharmaceutical Benefit under the schedules of the National Health Act will cause serious financial hardship to many families; 
That the Government's action is responsible for a severe increase in the cost of cows' milk substitutes which penalise parents of children aged eighteen months and over who have a medical need for these substitutes. 
That there is an urgent, humane need to restore cows' milk substitutes to children up to six years of age to the schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that cows' milk substitutes be restored to the Schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits for children up to the age of six years as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble Petition respectfully showeth that the responses to opportunities created through the Australian Assistance Plan and the achievements of Regional Councils for Social Development in planning the efficient use of resources have justified the expenditure of public moneys to date. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government endorse the continuation of the Australian Assistance Plan as a longer term program to be implemented on a regional basis throughout the Nation. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Would the Minister for Education inform the Senate whether the Government adheres to the objective in the Karmel Report that over a period the resource level of schools should be raised by a defined percentage? In other words, has the Government an objective of raising the quality of education in government and non-government schools? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Minister intend introducing the commission system for the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, as recommended by the Pharmacy Guild of Australia. 
Will the introduction of the commission system vastly improve the scheme, and initiate considerable savings in the scheme 's operating costs. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister seen the 1 975 National Report of the Pharmacy Guild of Australia. 
Does the Minister agree with  Mr Alan  Russell, the National  President  of the Guild, who, in his Presidential Report, remarked that Medibank has had a comparatively smooth introduction. 
Is the smooth introduction of Medibank due to the responsible manner in which pharmacists have discharged their duties as agents for Medibank. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Did  Mr H.  W. Jenyns,  Chairman  of Hannaford Branch of the South-East Graziers Association, on 1 April 1976 claim that the Australian Meat Board has been a poor adviser to the producer; if so, is this conclusion correct. 
) What is the composition of the Australian Meat Board. 
Has there been a degree of political infighting within the Board. 
Can the Board be encouraged to be more effective. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister seen reports of a statement by the Director of the Australian Wool Selling Brokers' Federation,  Mr B.  D. Purvis, that the current dispute between storemen and packers and wool selling brokers has tied up $30m worth of Australian wool clip ready for export. 
What action, if any has been or was taken by the Federal Department of Employment and Industrial Relations over this issue. 
3 ) What were the causes for the dispute. 
-I present the following petition from 65 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That reduction of the age limit from six years to eighteen months for patients eligible to receive cows' milk substitutes as a Pharmaceutical Benefit under the schedules of the National Health Act will cause serious financial hardship to many families; 
That the Government's action is responsible for a severe increase in the cost of cows' milk substitutes which penalise parents of children aged eighteen months and over who have a medical need for these substitutes. 
That there is an urgent, humane need to restore cows' milk substitutes to children up to six years of age to the schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that cows' milk substitutes be restored to the Schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits for children up to the age of six years as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Is the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware that the consumer organisation, Canberra Consumer Incorporated, in its current magazine has published a list of 27 types of cars, utilities and panel vans that have been recalled by Australian manufacturers in the past 2 years? Further, is the Minister also aware that Canberra Consumer Incorporated has claimed that the Australian vehicle recall code is riddled with gaps? Finally, is the Minister concerned at the serious situation indicated by the group's findings, and will he have investigations made to determine whether the vehicle recall code adequately protects people who purchase motor vehicles in Australia? 
Many people, including honourable senators on both sides of this chamber, had expected that in my first speech in the Senate I would mention certain aspects of the circumstances which I had experienced in one of my attempts to enter this chamber as a representative of the people of Queensland. That attempt, of course, was the one associated with the casual Senate vacancy in Queensland in 1975. In my first speech in this chamber, however, I made it clear that at that time there were more important issues about which I could speak. Nevertheless, 1 have decided that it is necessary for me to set down in the official record of this Parliament my observations of some of the events surrounding the casual Senate vacancies of 1975. Much but by no means all of what I say will be known to honourable senators. I expect that the casual Senate vacancies of 1975 will be discussed by political observers and students of government for many years to come. After all, the events surrounding one of the vacancies changed the course of politics in Australia. Therefore, 1 consider that it is encumbent upon me, as one who was intimately involved in the second vacancy for 1975, to set down some of my personal observations. 
Naturally, there are more ways than by solely using Parliament to ensure that a permanent record is made of my comments on the 2 vacancies. Certain events, however, have forced me to conclude that I should now speak on this matter in the Senate. The circumstances which have persuaded me to speak on the 1975 casual Senate vacancies include the many self-righteous statements made by Government senators during the Address-in-Reply debate. Certain of my comments later will indicate that honourable senators opposite were not entirely the men and women of high principle that they have suggested this year that they were. Additionally, many deliberately incorrect statements have been made recently about the vacancies. One of these can be attributed to  Mr Sparkes, President  of the National Party in Queensland, who on a recent television program glibly gave incorrect historical facts about a previous casual Senate vacancy in Queensland. 
More recently, a member of the Queensland Parliament went on record to imply that the deliberate flouting of an established political convention was justified if for a particular political party such an action was politically expedient. The member's remarks suggest to me that the unprecedented action in relation to the casual Senate vacancy in Queensland was well and deliberately planned, despite the smokescreen that was developed to give the matter a facade of respectability. The member to whom I refer is  Mr Charles  Porter, currently the member for Toowong in the Queensland Parliament and one-time General Secretary of the Liberal Party in Queensland. Speaking appropriately at the Brisbane Conservative Club on 5 April 1976  Mr Porter  defended the action of the Queensland Parliament in appointing a non-Labor senator to take the place of  Senator Milliner. Mr Porter  was reported in the  Courier-Mail  of 6 April 1 976 as having said:  lt should never be forgotten that Australia would not have had the opportunity last December to throw out Whitlam's gang had Queensland not refused to follow so-called convention and appoint a committed socialist. We were assailed bitterly for this decision by many who should have known better. 
Before honourable senators opposite, or honourable senators who normally sit opposite, begin to say 'Tut, tut' about  Mr Porter's  statement, let them reflect on some further words of  Mr Charles  Porter who continued his speech to the Brisbane Conservative Club by saying: 
But I have not noticed any of my critical colleagues who appear reluctant to enjoy the fruits of office they have gained by courtesy of the Queensland Parliament. 

 Mr Porter's recent statement reinforces my belief that the action of a majority of members of the Queensland Parliament was carefully and deliberately planned. Quite obviously I cannot mention all aspects associated with the 2 casual Senate vacancies in the time that I have at my disposal. I intend, therefore, to speak on the more relevant aspects only. Honourable senators are aware that casual Senate vacancies arise from one of three main causes. These are death, resignation or disqualification of some nature. All but one of the casual vacancies in the history of the Senate have occurred due to death or resignation. The exception occurred in 1903 when  Senator Ferguson's  place was deemed to be vacant due to his extended absence from the Chamber. In that case the provisions of section 20 of the Constitution were invoked. 
Consistent with the notion that the Senate was to be a States house, the writers of the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution vested the responsibility for filling casual Senate vacancies in the State Parliaments. Section 15 of the Constitution requires:   the Houses of Parliament of the State for which he - 
That is the previous senator-  was chosen shall, sitting and voting together, choose a person to hold the place until the expiration of the term, or until the election of a successor . . . whichever first happens. 
Further provision is made in section 1 5 for the Governor of the State, with the advice of the Executive Council, to make what is actually an interim appointment if the Houses of Parliament of the State are not in session. Whichever way an appointment is made, however, the significant fact is that it is not made by the electorate but by a State parliament; for, in the latter case, unless the successor is earlier elected or the appointee 's term earlier expires, a permanent appointment is made subsequently by the Houses of Parliament of the State. 
Prior to 1 949 there was probably little need for concern that any casual vacancy should be filled by a person from the same party as the senator who had vacated the position. Until 1 949 the systems of voting for the Senate did not reflect accurately the intent of the electorate. For example, at the election following the double dissolution of 1914, the non-Labor Opposition polled nearly half of the Senate vote but won only five of the 36 places in the Senate. Following the Senate election of 1919 there was only one Labor senator, and from 1946 to 1949 Labor held thirtythree of the Senate places to non-Labor's three. Certainly on a number of occasions before 1949 State Houses of Parliament chose persons from a different party from that to which the retired or deceased senator belonged. Since 1949, however, senators have been elected under a system of proportional representation and the effect has been to have a more evenly divided Senate. This delicate balance can be destroyed readily if casual vacancies are not filled by persons of the same party as the senators whom they replace. 
The first casual vacancy after the introduction of proportional representation occurred in 1951 upon the death of R. H. Nash, an Australian Labor Party senator. At that time there was a non-Labor government in Western Australia, the State which  Senator Nash  represented. In January 1952 the Premier of Western Australia,  Sir Ross  McLarty, communicated with other State Premiers about the vacancy. The text of  Sir Ross  McLarty 's letter was outlined in a Press statement by the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  on 12 February 1975. Amongst other things,  Sir Ross  said: 
This is the first vacancy that has arisen since  proportional  representation was adopted for the Senate, so whatever action is taken on this occasion could be taken as a precedent in filling future vacancies. I am therefore anxious to obtain the views of all State Premiers as to how they consider the future vacancies should be filled. 
My opinion is that, in view of the fact that proportional representation is now the method of election to the Senate, a member of the same Party, nominated by the Executive of the Party, should be appointed when future vacancies arise through death or other causes. 
In this particular case, the nomination would come from the Executive of the Western Australian Branch of the ALP. 
Not all the correspondence on the matter has been made public.  Sir Charles  Court, the Premier of Western Australia, said on 1 3 February 1975 on the ABC program  A.M.  that the Premier of South Australia in 1952 did not agree to  Sir Ross  McLarty 's proposition. It appears, however, that there was general, if not unanimous, agreement with  Sir Ross  McLarty 's proposal amongst the State Premiers. A nominee of the Labor Party, J. A. Cooke, was subsequently appointed in the place of  Senator Nash.  Following the appointment of  Senator Cooke  there were until 1974 a further 24 casual vacancies. Five of those were caused by resignation and each of the five was a member of the Liberal Party. The remaining 19 vacancies were caused by death. In each case the vacancy was filled by  an appointee from the same political party to which the retired or deceased senator belonged.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  details in relation to casual vacancies from 1951 to 1974. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  ( The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="068232197605040_24_1.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Senate. The only time when there appeared to be some doubt that the convention might not be observed occurred following the death in 1962 of a Labor senator from Queensland,  Senator M.  W. Poulter. Honourable senators will recall that earlier I mentioned that  Mr Sparkes,  the  President  of the 
National Party, recently presented incorrect historical information about a previous casual vacancy in Queensland. Referring to the casual vacancy following the death of  Senator Poulter, Mr Sparkes  said on the television program  Monday Conference  that the Australian Labor Party put forward a panel of 3 names. His statement  was patently incorrect. What happened was that the Country Party-Liberal Government in Queensland vetoed  Mr A.  E. Arnell, Labor's choice to fill the casual vacancy. The Government's objection was based upon  Mr Arnell's  alleged left wing associations. At the Government's insistence, the Australian Labor Party in Queensland submitted a further name  to the  Parliament, and  Mr G.  I. Whiteside, who was Labor's second nominee, was appointed. At this stage it is worthwhile making 2 comments. Firstly, on the  Monday Conference  program to which I have referred in which  Mr Sparkes  gave incorrect information, he said also that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen's  action was justifiable. Secondly, Patrick Tennison, in his recent book  The Lucky Country Reborn  made the same mistake as  Mr Sparkes  did in relation to a list being submitted to the then State Government. Incidentally, that was not the only error of fact made by  Mr Tennison.  It is a pity that a journalist of his experience should make such basic errors and thus cast doubts on other aspects of his book. 
I return now to the convention in relation to casual vacancies. Despite the growing acceptance of the convention, at least until 1975, there has often been raised the suggestion that it would be desirable to change the law to ensure that casual vacancies would be filled by a person from the same political party as his predecessor. Both the Select Committee on the Constitution Alteration (Avoidance of Double Dissolution Deadlocks) Bill 1950 and the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review referred to casual vacancies and made that suggestion. The Select Committee 's report, of course, was made before the historical vacancy of 1951. The Joint Committee on Constitutional Review pointed out the difficulties in framing a suitable amendment. In its first report in 1958 it stated that it was unable to find a form of amendment which would express satisfactorily the objective it had in mind. In its 1959 report it went even further, and I should like to quote some aspects of that report. In paragraph 287 it stated, amongst other things: 
The Committee could not, however, find suitable language which would have covered all possible contingencies and, at the same time, avoided reference to political parties in the Constitution. By way of illustration of the difficulties confronting the Committee, it would have been necessary, in any constitutional alteration, to deal with possible cases of a vacating senator who joined another party after election, became a member of another party because that party succeeded the party in existence at the date of election or who, for that matter, was not a member of any party. The difficulties proved to be insurmountable. 
In paragraph 291 the Committee stated: 
At this juncture, the Committee merely reiterates its view, expressed in the first Report, that all members who sat on the 
Committee thought the principle should continue to be observed without exception so that the matter may become the subject of a constitutional convention or understanding which political parties will always observe. 
In 1975, however, there were 2 casual vacancies, and each time the convention was broken. On 9 February 1975 Labor  Senator L.  K. Murphy from New South Wales resigned from the Senate to accept an appointment to the High Court of Australia. He was not, however, to be replaced by a nominee of the Labor Party. Terming the vacancy a 'contrived' one, the then New South Wales Premier,  Mr Lewis,  denied that he was bound by any convention. He said, as reported in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 26 February 1975, that 'no evidence existed of any convention for filling Senate vacancies other than those created by death or ill-health'. In one respect  Mr Lewis  was correct.  His  reported statement in the  Sydney Morning Herald  rightly pointed out that every 'vacancy caused by deliberate act of government since 1949 had been filled by a State Parliament where the majority had been of the same political colour as that of the retiring senator'. 
On the other hand,  Mr Lewis  conveniently disregarded the apparent agreement of a majority of the Premiers in 1952. That agreement had considered casual vacancies arising through death or other causes'. With no provision in the Standing Orders of the New South Wales Parliament for a secret ballot for filling Senate vacancies, the result was beyond doubt when the New South Wales Cabinet approved the nomination of the Mayor of Albury, 72-year-old Alderman Cleaver Bunton. That was the man who had apparently filled the quaint description that  Mr Lewis  was reported in the  Courier Mail  of 17 February 1975 to have given the person for whom he was looking- a political neuter. 
The Australian Labor Party chose as its nominee  Mr Peter  Westerway who had been an unsuccessful candidate for Labor in the 1974 Senate election. Alderman Bunton however was chosen by a joint parliamentary vote of 87 votes to 70 votes. The appointment of Alderman Bunton was to have little effect on the direction of the Australian Parliament. The Opposition already had half of the members in the Senate of 60 members, which enabled it to reject any government legislation.  Senator Bunton  voted with the Government when the 1975-76 Budget came before the Senate. In that respect then his appointment did not contribute to the political instability of October-November 1975. That is not to say, of course, that there was not public  controversy about Alderman Bunton 's appointment. Even a cursory glance at the newspapers of the day reveal the public indignation on the move. 
The outcome however, was different following the filling of the second casual vacancy for 1975. That vacancy occurred upon the death on 30 June 1975 of a Labor representative from Queensland,  Senator B.  R. Milliner. The early indications were that a Labor appointee would fill the vacancy. On 2 July 1975 the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  was reported in the  Courier Mail  to have said that the appointee would be a person from the Australian Labor Party. He said that 'in the case of a death, it is logical to appoint a man from the same Party'.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  however, made a statement to the Press that Labor 'would have to put forward a panel of candidates from which a choice would be made'. He formally issued that direction to the Queensland branch of the Labor Party in a letter addressed to the Leader of the Opposition, MrT. Burns. In part the letter read: 
The generally accepted practice when a vacancy of this nature occurs is for the new  Senator to  be of the same political Party as his predecessor. 
To this end therefore, t should appreciate your advising me as soon as possible the names of three persons whom your Party would be prepared to nominate for the election of one of them by the Parliament to fill the present casual Senate vacancy. 
At this stage, Madam Acting Deputy President, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the full text of that letter from the Premier of Queensland to  Mr Burns. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Melzer)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The letter read as follows)- 
Premier's Department Brisbane Q. 4000 17th July, 1975. 
Dear  Mr Burns, 
On 1 July 1 975,  His Excellency  the Governor was formally advised by the  President  of the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia of the Senate vacancy which had resulted from the death of  Senator Bertie  Richard Milliner on 3.0 June 1975. 
The question now arises of having that vacancy filled. As you are aware Section 15 of the Commonwealth Constitution provides that when the State Parliament is not in Session the Governor in Council of the State concerned may appoint a person to hold the Senate place until the expiry of fourteen days from the beginning of the next Session of the said Parliament. When the Parliament does meet, it must then proceed within fourteen days to the election of a person to hold the late Senator's place in the Senate. Section 1 5 also states that 'If the place of a  Senator becomes  vacant before the expiration of his term of service, the House of Parliament of the State for which he was chosen shall, sitting and voting together, choose a person to hold the place until the expiration of the term . . .' 
The Queensland Parliament is not presently in Session but today His Excellency the Governor has summoned the Parliament to meet on Tuesday, 19 August 1975. In view of the provisions of Section 15 of the Constitution and the imminent commencement of the Second Session of the Forty-First Parliament of Queensland, it would be appropriate if the constitutional action involved for the filling of the casual Senate vacancy were undertaken by the Parliament following the commencement of the Second Session. 
The generally accepted practice when a vacancy of this nature occurs is for the new  Senator to  be of the same political Party as his predecessor. 
To this end therefore, I should appreciate your advising me as soon as possible the names of three persons whom your Party would be prepared to nominate for the election of one of them by the Parliament to fill the present casual Senate vacancy. 
In this regard I refer you also to the provisions of Standing Order 331 (e) of the Legislative Assembly as expressed in that Standing Order and the relevant Schedule. 
Yours faithfully. JOH BJELKE-PETERSEN Premier 
-Mr Burns pointed out that that direction was in contrast to the stand taken by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  when  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin resigned her place in the Senate to accept an appointment as High Commissioner for New Zealand. On that occasion  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  asked the Queensland division of the Liberal Party to advise him of the name of one person whom it wished to nominate for the casual vacancy. Madam Acting  Deputy President,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  that letter from  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  to  Mr Houston. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The letter read as follows)- 
Premier's Department Brisbane Q. 4000 31 May 1971. 
Dear  Mr. Houston, 

 His Excellency the Governor was formally advised by  His Excellency  the Governor-General on 25 May 1971, that, on 24 May 1971,  Senator the  Honourable Dame Annabelle Jane Mary Rankin, D.B.E., a  Senator for  the State of Queensland, resigned her place in the Senate, in accordance with the provisions of Section 19 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia, and that place thereupon became vacant. Dame Annabelle Rankin's term of service had been due to expire on 30 June 1 974. 
As you know, the accepted practice when a casual vacancy of this nature occurs is for the new  Senator to  be of the same political party as his predecessor and I have asked the Queensland Division of the Liberal Party of Australia to advise me, as quickly as possible, of the name of the person they wish to nominate on this particular occasion. 
As soon as I am in receipt of the name of this nominee, I shall advise you accordingly and, at the same time, the necessary constitutional procedure for the filling of this casual Senate vacancy brought about by Dame Annabelle 's resignation will be set in train. 
Yours sincerely, JOH BJELKE-PETERSEN Premier 

 Mr. J. W.Houston, M.L.A., Leader of the Opposition, Parliament House, BRISBANE. 
-With one exception, it was also in constrast to the practice which had prevailed since 1 952, of accepting the nominee of the political Party concerned. The exception was the previously mentioned occasion following the death of  Senator Poulter  in 1962. At that time a second name had been submitted only after the Parliament had expressed its dubious dissatisfaction with the original nominee. 
The Queensland branch of the Australian Labor Party decided that it could not and would not accede to  Mr Bjelke-Petersen's  provocative request. It held that the Party itself should have the right to choose its candidate for the casual vacancy. Overwhelming Labor opinion and, indeed, overwhelming public opinion was that one name only should be submitted. Nominations were called from within the Labor Party for the vacancy. Two nominations were received. A ballot was held and I subsequently became the Party's sole nominee. 
The Queensland Parliament met on 27 August 1975 to consider the casual vacancy. My name was submitted by the Leader of the Opposition in the State Parliament,  Mr Burns.  That was the only nomination but, after a 3-hour debate, the Parliament voted by 62 votes to 15 votes- Labor had 1 1 members in the Queensland Parliamentnot to accept the nomination. The principal reason for the rejection of the nomination was that a panel of 3 names had not been submitted so that, in accordance with section 1 5 of the Constitution, a choice could not be made. It was argued that with one name only before the Parliament it was not possible for the Parliament, in the terms of the Constitution, 'to choose a person to hold the place until the expiration of the term, or until the election of a successor  . . whichever first happens'. It seemed that that was really but a convenient exercise in semantics when one considers that during the debate a concerted effort had been made to discredit me as an acceptable nominee. 
The circumstances of the vicious personal attack on me are, of course, fully documented in the State  Hansard.  It is pertinent, however, to make one observation and to pose one question. The observation is that even though such attacks were made on me the State Government saw fit to re-employ me as a State public servant. Apparently I was considered sufficiently fit to work for the people of Queensland as a public servant but not fit enough to represent them in the Senate. In other words, the State Parliament's actions were an example of a first-class humbug. The question which now may be posed is this: If I was so unfit to be a member of this chamber in 1975, where are last year's critics now? 
It is pertinent for me to mention an incident which occurred on 27 August prior to the time when the Parliament met to consider the vacancy. In one of the corridors of the State Parliament I encountered a State Minister whom I had known reasonably well through my duties as a public servant. During the course of a conversation which followed our meeting one another he said: 'You get your Party to put forward 3 names. Then you will be chosen by Parliament as the new senator'. My immediate reaction was: Well, what a peculiar piece of logic! 
After the abortive parliamentary meeting on 27 August 1975, Parliament met one week later on 3 September 1975 to consider the casual vacancy once more. Again the Australian Labor Party put forward my name only. There had been widespread condemnation of the actions of 27 August from people of all political persuasions throughout Australia, including many members of the House of Representatives who debated the issue in that House on 3 September 1975. Nevertheless, my nomination was again rejected by the State Parliament. This time all the Liberal Ministers who were present voted for my nomination, but it was again rejected. On that occasion voting was 53 to 26. Then the man whom  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  nominated,  Mr A.  P. Field- a relative unknown in politics at that time and, incidentally, not really known by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  himself- was appointed by 50 votes to 26 votes. Despite what was mentioned by the Queensland Minister who said that I would be chosen if a panel of three was put forward, I doubt that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  ever had any intention of appointing a Labor nominee.  His  whole strategy in my opinion was deliberately devised to ensure that a non-Labor nominee would become the new senator for the State of Queensland. 

 Mr Field was a card carrying member of the Australian Labor Party. But, under rule 49 of the Queensland Branch of the Australian Labor Party, he had automatically expelled himself by standing against an endorsed Labor candidate. 

 Mr Bjelke-Petersen should have been well aware of the substance of rule 49 as it had been mentioned many times after  Senator Milliner's  death and during the debates on 27 August and 3 September. He was thus unconvincing when, as reported in the Brisbane  Courier Mail  of 4 September 1975, he remarked: 
I have said from the outset I would observe convention and the Senate vacancy would be filled by a member of the ALP.  Mr Albert  Patrick Field is such a man. 
Any thoughts that  Mr Field  might support the Australian Labor Party in the Senate were quickly dispelled by one of his first press statements. In the same edition of the  Courier Mail  as I just mentioned, he is reported as follows: 
He wanted the Federal Labor Party turned out. If voting against Supply would do this, he might vote against Supply. 
The composition of the Senate therefore had been changed by the appointments of Senators Bunton and Field to 30 Liberal-National Country Party senators, 27 Australian Labor Party senators, 1 Liberal Movement senator and 2 Independent senators. The Labor representation of 29 senators as chosen by the electorate in May 1974 had been reduced by two. 
Many honourable senators will be conversant with the events which followed. Even without the assistance of either of the appointed independents,  Senator Field  and  Senator Bunton,  the Opposition was able to reject any Government legislation. On the other hand, with 30 senators in a chamber with a membership of 60, it was unable to initiate legislation. The appointment of  Senator Field,  however, allowed the Opposition to take complete control in the Senate. A writ was issued challenging the right of  Senator Field  to occupy a place in the Senate. To cover his nonattendance in the Senate while the case was being considered by the High Court, this chamber granted him leave of absence for one month. With his absence, the Opposition had a majority of senators in this chamber, having 30 senators out of 59 senators. Thus, when the Appropriation Bills came before the Senate, the Opposition was able to move for their deferment. The Opposition's willingness to pass the Bills was conditional upon the Government agreeing to go to the people. Each time the Opposition was able to carry its motion of deferment by one vote,  Senator Bunton  and  Senator Hall  voting with the Government. 
In this manner, Supply was deferred on 3 occasions- 11 October, 23 October and 6 November. The continuing deferment set the stage for the crisis of government and its consequent climax on 1 1 November. But if a Labor nominee had replaced  Senator Milliner,  there would not have been an extended crisis. Without the support of Senators Bunton and Hall, the Opposition would have been obliged, if it wished to use the Appropriation Bills to force an election, to reject those Bills. If it had done so, the political position would have become clear immediately. Admittedly the Government could have kept sending the Appropriation Bills to the Senate and had them rejected over the same period as they were deferred. The outcome could have been similar to that which occurred following the deferment of the Bills. On the other hand, it is more likely that, if the Opposition had not been able to defer the Appropriation Bills, Supply would have been passed. It seemed that there were sufficient Opposition senators who would not have agreed to take the ultimate step and vote for the rejection of Supply. Under these circumstances, therefore, it is probable that, unless there had been some other unforeseen circumstance, there would still have been a Labor government in 1976. 
It is worth while pointing out that one Opposition senator-  Senator Bessell-  publicly announced that he would not vote for the rejection of Supply. It is probably significant that this senator's State organisation was successful in its attempts to prevent  Senator Bessell  from returning to this chamber after the December 1975 election; or, at least, it put sufficient obstacles in his path to prevent his return. On a  Four Corners  program on 25 October 1975,  Senator Bessell  was interviewed by Peter Ross. The transcript of that program reads: 
Peter Ross:  Senator, how  would you react if it came to a rejection of the Budget? 

 Senator Bessell: Well it's not a question of that but I would not be in favour of a rejection of the Budget. I'm certainly very much in favour of the situation we have at the moment where the amendment that was put down a couple of days ago will be put down on the Bills that are currently before the Senate . . . 
Later, the transcript continues: 
Peter Ross: Would you under no circumstances vote for a rejection of Supply? 

 Senator Bessell: At the present moment that would be my opinion, I would not want to vote for rejection. 
Peter Ross: Does that make you a lone figure in the Opposition benches? 

 Senator Bessell: Well I wouldn't think so but I couldn't bc more specific than that. 
Finally, the transcript reads: 
Peter Ross: And if it came to a vote of pure rejection of Supply you wouldn't vote? 

 Senator Bessell: I would not vote for a rejection. 
It is my opinion that not only was a long standing convention twice broken in 1975 by reactionary State Premiers but, in addition, the very stability of Australian parliamentary government as it was known prior to 1975 was discarded. By deliberately altering the composition of one of the Houses of the national Parliament from that which the Australian electors set in 1974, a democratically elected government was eventually dismissed from office. 
So, I ask: What of the future? It is now difficult to say whether a convention still exists in relation to the filling of casual vacancies. Will the system which prevailed from 1952 to 1974 be adhered to in the future and will the 2 events of 1975 be regarded simply as an unfortunate departure from accepted political practice in Australia? Or will the circumstances surrounding the 1975 occurrences be accepted as a new convention- a convention of cynical political expediency? Much as I would deplore it, I consider that the latter will prevail. No longer will the votes of the electorate have any special significance for the Senate. The composition of the upper chamber can be manipulated at will. 
When honourable senators contemplate this possibility, they must have some reservations about what it means to them, knowing that vacancies almost invariably occur because of resignation or death. Will the events of 1975 eventually lead to the necessity for tight security provisions for each Australian senator to prevent extreme measures from being taken to cause casual vacancies? This may be a frightening picture to paint. In the light of the Murphy-Bunton and Milliner-Field incidents, however, I do not believe it to be unrealistic. 
There is currently no State Parliament in Australia which has sufficient Labor representatives in its 2 chambers- of course Queensland has one chamber- to expect that a move to replace non-Labor senators with Labor nominees would be successful. Nevertheless this situation will one day change. Non-Labor parties may regret the precedent set by Messrs Lewis and Bjelke-Petersen. Along with many of my Australian Labor Party colleagues, I hope that no future State Labor government will follow the 2 examples of 1975. Nevertheless, now that the convention has been disregarded, it is difficult to be certain that this will not happen. Those who do care about the 1975 incident should support any moves to have the deliberations of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review in relation to casual vacancies investigated further. Perhaps it may be possible to frame a suitable amendment to frustrate the will of a future maverick premier. 
The implications of the actions spearheaded by Messrs Lewis and Bjelke- Petersen, however, go far beyond the effect on the convention- in relation to casual vacancies. They throw into total doubt any assumptions of the permanency of all the conventions which are essential for the maintenance of our Australian system of government. If in the future the hydra-like spectre of political expediency questions these conventions, ' I hope that good sense will prevail. Regretfully, however, I have some doubts- that it will. The shabby manner in which established conventions were treated with contempt in 1975 has added a new dimension to Australian politics. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Embassy in Argentina been officially notified of the change of Government in that country. 
What is the Australian Government's attitude to the new Government of Argentina. 
Has the Embassy made any inquiries as to the whereabouts and safety of the former President of Argentina. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the full text of the standard questionnaire letter that the Department of Social Security sends to persons claiming a single person's pension. 
Do several questions in this letter, relating to the separation of the respective parties, constitute an unnecessary invasion of privacy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister seen criticisms by  Mr John  Coller Secretary of the Australian Council for Overseas Aid, that the Department of Foreign Affairs will 'smother' any overseas aid bureau formed within it. 
Does the Government intend establishing an overseas aid bureau in the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
Will the bureau incorporate the existing Australian Development Assistance Agency. 
What stage have the proposals reached. 
Will the Minister reconsider the proposals in the light of the persuasive arguments against them provided by  Mr Coller 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the National Small Business Bureau to phase out its Small Business Counselling Assistance Programme in New South Wales. 
What staffing and facilities does the programme currently have at its disposal. 
What has been the cost of maintaining the programme since its inception. 
Will the New South Wales Government's new Small Business Agency take over all functions of the Small Business Counselling Assistance Programme. 
What arrangements have been made regarding the present staff and facilities attached to the Small Business Counselling Assistance Programme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd currently import approximately 700 tonnes of ferro-chrome per month into Australia for use in steel-making process. 
Is most of this ferro-chrome obtained from the Southern Cross Steel Company in South Africa. 
Does some of the ore obtained from that company for use in Australia actually originate in Rhodesia; if so, does this constitute a breach of United Nations' economic sanctions against Rhodesia. 
Will the Minister investigate this case to ensure that no breach of United Nations 'sanctions has occurred. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How many appeals relating to unemployment benefit were dealt with in each State this year by Social Security Appeals Tribunals. 
How many appeals were upheld in each State. 
How many appeals were dismissed in each State. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
How many man-hours have been lost in Australia through (a) strike action; (b) lockouts; (c) sickness; and (d) industrial accidents, in each month since January 1 975. 
asked the Minister representing  the  Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did McKinsey and Company, management consultants, recommend in a report that the Australia Council cut its staff by 20 per cent to improve efficiency. 
Was the Report commissioned by the Government or by the Australia Council itself, and what status does the report have. 
Will the report be made public; if so, when. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice: 
How many persons were employed in each Commonwealth Department at (a) 30 November 1975 and (b) 29 February 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister seen comments attributed in the press to  Mr John  Coller, the National Director of the Foster Parents Plan of Australia, who has just returned from a visit to Ethiopia. 
Did  Mr Coller  call the Fraser Government's recent cut in overseas aid, highly despicable. 
What action is the Australian Government taking to assist the Ethiopian people, either directly or through international aid agencies, given  Mr Coller  's description of current living conditions in Ethiopia. 
Has the Government of Ethiopia made any formal requests for assistance from the Australian Government; if so, when were the requests made. 
-I present the following petition from 72 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That reduction of the age limit from six years to eighteen months for patients eligible to receive cows' milk substitutes as a Pharmaceutical benefit under the schedules of the National Health Act will cause serious financial hardship to many families; 
That the Government's action is responsible for a severe increase in the cost of cows' milk substitutes which penalise parents of children aged eighteen months and over who have a medical need for these substitutes. 
That there is an urgent, humane need to restore cows' milk substitutes to children up to six years of age to the schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that cows' milk substitutes be restored to the Schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits for children up to the age of six years as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Construction of Flats in Turner, A.C.T. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the report of the Minister's recent visit to Cocos (Keeling) Islands and Christmas Island published in the  Nation Review  on 30 April 1976. I ask: During the course of his discussions on Christmas Island did the Chinese community leader Chen Ghang urge the Minister to give him a yes/no answer on a requested guarantee of free access to the Australian mainland for the Islanders? Is the  Nation Review  report correct in stating that the Minister's reply to this request was: 'If you propositioned a girl like that, you'd never get anywhere. '? Is the report also correct in stating that the Minister told a reporter that he was totally unaware of the United Nations Committee of Twenty-four? Finally, are reports correct that the Minister has agreed to abdicate his responsibilities for the Cocos (Keeling) Islands negotiations to a Minister better equipped in knowledge and diplomacy to handle the delicate Cocos (Keeling) Islands situation? 
I preface my question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General, with 2 remarks. First, I realise that under the Standing Orders we are not permitted to ask questions that ask for a legal opinion and I shall not do so, or I presume that I shall not be doing so. Secondly, I recently received a complaint from a constituent that she was not permitted to enter a State Government hospital in Brisbane to visit her husband who was a patient in that hospital because, being blind, she was obliged to be accompanied by her guide dog. Could the Minister advise whether there is any Commonwealth law to ensure freedom of movement of blind persons with guide dogs? If so, does this law extend to movement within State Government hospitals? 
I seek your indulgence,  Mr President,  to ask a further question regarding guide dogs. Would I be in order if I asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development whether there is provision in Commonwealth law for freedom of movement for guide dogs in Australia? 
-The States Grants (Schools) Bill which is presently before the Senate has far reaching consequences not only for education in Australia but also for the future of Australia itself. I mention that at the outset because I think it is worth while noting that its significance- I say this with no disrespect to the 2 Press men in the Press Gallery- by way of Press coverage of the debate on the Bill seems to be minimal, even though, as I say, it will have far reaching consequences in Australia. I think that this is unfortunate. Some years ago any debate on education would have received a tremendous amount of coverage. But because of what has been done over the past few years in education, the subject seems to have become somewhat a non-issue. The 3 speakers from the Opposition side who preceded me in the debate have analysed the Bill in detail. They have made mention of various aspects of the Schools Commission. So I do not intend to speak in detail on any of these matters but on some more basic matters dealings with education in Australia. Of course, these matters upon which I will speak are related to the Bill before us because they concern primary schools, secondary schools and those other aspects which are covered by it. 
In general, I want to speak about 3 areas in which there are problems in Australia's educational system. Of course, I will be doing no more than scratching the surface of the problems in Australia's educational system. In fact, the previous  speaker, Senator Harradine,  said that time would not permit him to debate the whole educational question. I believe that if we were to do that, we would be here for many hours. So in the short time available to me I would like to cover 3 aspects, some of which have been covered in passing by previous speakers. Last week we had a great show of strength in Canberra from people who are concerned with education throughout Australia. I commend those people for showing their concern, sometimes at great expense to themselves. I commend the people who came from my State- not only those people who came from Brisbane where I live but also those from the northern areas whose expenses to travel to Canberra would have been far greater- to speak to the members of the Parliament and to show them what they thought were some of the deficiencies in the educational system. I mention this because the 3 areas that I will speak of might not be areas mentioned by the people who came here last week as involving specific problems in their schools, whether those persons be teachers, parents or simply those who are concerned with education generally. In fact, the people who spoke to me and I think to most honourable senators probably outlined a myriad of problems which face them in their particular schools. Of course, these things are important to them. They see that the hopes for their children and for the people in their districts rest with the education received in the schools. 
In mentioning the problems that I shall refer to in a moment, I should say at the outset that I do not think it is time in Australia to consider reductions in funds for education, despite what may have been said by some honourable senators and members in another place as well. The Government might have some reasons for making reductions in spending. But if we are to cut back in educational spending, I think that we will reduce much of the impetus that has been given to education over the last few years. The first problem I speak of is one which is allegedly evident in many schools in Australia. At least 2 previous speakers in the debate have mentioned this matter. I refer to teaching in the basic subjects. Children no longer go to school to learn the 3 Rs, as one honourable senator referred to them yesterday. In fact, when I began teaching some 19 years ago the emphasis was no longer on the 3 Rs; it was placed more on an educational program that would fit the child for a place in the then society. The educational system has moved in a better way over the last 19 years to equip the child to take his or her place in society and to live a happy and full life. To do this, we have had to front the child with a wide range of subjects. Of course, in continuing this process we must make sure that he or she still learns certain fundamental skills. But we must not forget that as well as learning those skills, there are other skills which the child must learn at school. 
I believe that we are still not equipping the child for society. When students leave school, there are certain basic gaps in their education. I think that these can be seen quite readily by anyone who analyses the situation. For example, many of our children leave school with no tuition in consumer education. They do not know how they will husband their money and look after the funds they earn when they leave school. How many students who leave school nowadays have a satisfactory citizenship education, if one can call it that? I refer to an education which allows them to examine the workings of a place like the Parliament, to examine the various political arguments that are put before them and weigh them up properly? How many students who leave school now have an adequate sex education? Some people say that this is not necessarily the role of the school. But perhaps it is. These things aside, it is necessary that certain fundamentals be grasped so that the child is fit to take his or her place in society. 
One of the skills to which I refer is the skill of literacy. This was mentioned by 2 previous speakers in the debate. Much criticism has been made lately of fundamentals in education, especially the skill of literacy. I should like to cite just a few examples of the sorts of things that one sees in journals and newspapers in which this criticism is made. One article is titled, 'School's back- turning out illiterates'. I read one small extract from it as follows: 
We're betraying kids on an immense scale in this country, .. . We have never had such numbers of functionallyilliterate pupils- at a time when English is being considered of less and less importance ... If the present trend continues, the only literate pupils in the community will be those who learned semaphore in the Boy Scouts, provided they remember the alphabet. 
The article from which I next quote is similar to those that we read in journals and newspapers today. Under the heading: ' 10 per cent of adults illiterate 'it states: 
One in seven adults cannot read well enough to cope with every day experiences according to a university study. 
And almost four per cent of Australian or British born adults read so poorly that they cannot achieve a basic survival literacy. 
The figures are revealed in the interim report of a study by  Dr Judith  Goyen, a lecturer in education at Macquarie University, Sydney. 
The final article to which I refer has the heading:  10 per cent can't tell the time at 14'. It states: 
One in 10 Australian 14-year-olds can't tell the time properly. 
Sixteen per cent of them can't handle simple multiplication, subtraction or division. 
These things, of course, are important for us to look at even though they are the very basis of our educational system. I would like to put forward my hypothesis that I do not think things are getting worse, and in this respect I disagree with two of the previous speakers in this debate.  Senator Martin  said something like this: More and more children are being produced at high schools who are illiterate, the implication being that the problem is getting worse. Last night  Senator Tehan  said that he was somewhat concerned at the fall in the standard of some of the essentials of what he thinks are properly termed ' basic education '. 
Unfortunately, there is no real concrete data in Australia to either prove my hypothesis or the hypothesis of those 2 other honourable senators. Any research that we look at that has been conducted on a continual basis overseas seems to suggest that there has been a slight improvement over the years in the basic subjects. We do not have that sort of survey that we can look at here in Australia although one is about to start. In 5 years time we might be able to look back to see what progress has been made. It is my thought that we are not going backwards in Australia; we are probably going a little forward. Nevertheless, a problem exists and we should not hide the problem even though some of us think we are not regressing because every one of those persons who cannot read and who cannot tell the time are experiencing a certain amount of frustration and unhappiness. They will not take a happy place in society. Therefore, we should make every effort possible to have research conducted in this area so that we can make sure where we are going and we can make sure that we are providing the best possible education for our pupils. On a broader theme, of course, every time we have a student who is not reaching his capabilities, we have under-utilisation of our human resources. This is not the sort of thing that we can readily accept in Australia. 
Speaking of under-utilisation, I should like to refer now to the second problem that I think is evident in our schools, especially in our secondary schools. It deals with adequate or sometimes inadequate educational and vocational guidance. Inadequate guidance in our secondary schools leads to a tremendous amount of wastage. The word 'wastage' is bandied around a bit in educational jargon so I took the opportunity of checking the dictionary meaning of the word waste'. It said: 
To expend to no purpose, or for inadequate results, to use extravagantly, or to squander. 
This hits the nail right on the head. This is what is happening in some aspects of education. We have unacceptable waste in many areas of education. Too often students go into secondary schools and take courses which are not appropriate for them. They experience 2 or 3 years of frustration in these courses and at the end of it leave school with no skills and probably a hardened attitude towards education which will prevent them taking further steps to improve themselves in later years. We have the same sort of thing happening post secondary school, at university. This is probably the stage at which it is noticed most prominently. Students spend one, two or more years doing courses which are not proper for them and then they have to start over again. 
From my experience in the educational field I believe that some of the worst wastage occurs in technical areas. I think that much of this wastage is due to inadequate guidance. There are other reasons why there might be wastage, for example, home facilities, work facilities themselves, sometimes a lack of ability and sometimes teaching facilities. In a great number of cases there is inadequate guidance. I think that there is inadequate guidance because of the fact that much of the guidance given to students who intend to enter technical fields comes from their secondary school teachers. Most of these secondary school teachers are university trained and have an academic bias- I do not say that in any derogatory manner- that has grown with them as they pass through secondary school and through university. They have taken this bias back into the secondary school. Many of them do not properly understand what pupils will be faced with when they go into a technical field. 
Student counsellors themselves probably have the same problem, although hopefully they are trained a little further than the teachers themselves. Student counsellors often come from the teaching field. They too have gone through university and have this bias towards an academic type of education. I do not say this in any derogatory manner to secondary school teachers or school counsellors because I think it is a fact of life. It is a fact of life that must be faced by those who are going to try to guide the students into proper fields where they will not be hampered by having inadequate guidance. 
I should like to relate to the Senate some figures as evidence to suggest that something is amiss in this technical field. While the Bill we are debating does not cover technical education, I mention this because I think that the root cause of what I am about to point out happens in the schools themselves where students were not given guidance before they went into an occupation. The figures I should like to present are apprenticeship figures relating to Queensland, the State I represent. For the year ended June 1975 a total of 20 275 apprentices were employed in Queensland. In that year 3328 completed their indentures. But while 3328 completed their indentures 1035 had their apprenticeships cancelled during that year. In other words, for every 3 apprentices who completed their indentures, one person had his indenture cancelled. 
It is interesting to look at the reasons for the cancellation of the indentures. Of the 1035 apprentices, 40 1 cancelled their indentures because they lost interest and 98 apprentices had their indentures cancelled because they had training problems. These are 2 of the biggest categories of cancellation. It seems to me that if the apprentices themselves had adequate guidance while they were students- I do not say it is only inadequate guidance; selection problems could have been a factor also- we would have had a far lower rate of wastage. It is a tragedy for every one of those apprentices who had his indentures cancelled. He spent a certain amount of time in an occupation and has to start again in a new occupation. In that same year- remembering that there was an intake of about 3600 apprenticesthere was an additional total over and above those I have already mentioned of 694 apprentices who during their probationary period, which is usually of 3 months, decided not to continue. In other words, for every six who were taken in as apprentices that year, one dropped by the wayside in the first 3 months. 
This is an area into which we will have to put more of our resources and more of the funds that have been flowing because of the Bills that have come before us and because of the commissions which have been set up. 
The final theme that I wish to discuss concerns a problem that is most pertinent in the State in which I live. But it is not only pertinent in my State. Whilst the problem probably is the greatest in the State that I represent, it also is experienced in other States. I refer to the educational problems facing country children. I have an interest in this field because I taught in country areas for many years before I returned to the city. Also, I travel a great deal around my State and I see the problems in these areas. In Queensland the number of children receiving isolated allowances is higher than the numbers in any other State. A similar situation prevails with respect to the number of children receiving correspondence education. For instance, in Queensland in 1974- these are some of the latest figures available 5294 students were receiving isolated allowances. This was the highest number in any State. The next highest number was 4821 students in New South Wales. Although there is some overlapping, the figures for the number of students receiving correspondence education show the same trend. The number of children receiving correspondence education in Queensland was 5056. That was the highest figure in any State. The next highest number was 4517 students in New South Wales. 
I should like to mention some of the broad difficulties that face country children. I refer firstly to 1 -teacher and 2-teacher schools. A number of people probably would be surprised to know the number of 1 -teacher and 2-teacher schools in Queensland. Out of a total of 953 schools with class sizes ranging from under 21 to 2000, 1 80 schools have fewer than 2 1 pupils. A further 131 schools have between 21 pupils and 35 pupils. A further 234 schools have between 36 pupils and 100 pupils. Teaching in a 1 -teacher school and being in a 1 -teacher school has certain advantages. Students receive much more individual attention. The school draws its strength from the community that it serves. But there are also unfavourable aspects to 1 -teacher schools. Often there are inexperienced teachers, there is a rapid turnover of staff, there are limited school facilities and there are restricted experiences for the children. 
At secondary level the problems multiply. Those of us who have a knowledge of secondary schools in the country know that there are limited expectations for students in these schools in that the curriculum is very limited. In addition, students in country areas are faced with isolation. They lack access or have no access to cultural facilities, libraries and television. The range and level of local employment and the educational levels and incomes of families are all important matters. Teachers, too, in country areas face problems. I suppose that one of the biggest problems that they face is teacher housing, and I will mention shortly the question of providing funds for teacher housing. 
I can remember vividly the first time that I went to a country school, and by a 'country school' I mean a 1 -teacher school. I was 20 years of age at the time. On arriving at the place I was told: 'Well, that is where you are going to live'. I looked up on a hill and silhouetted against the evening skyline was this thing that looked like an outhouse. It looked small because it was that time of evening and it was silhouetted against the skyline. When I got to the building I found that it was not much bigger than an outhouse. It was 1 2 feet by 8 feet. I lived in that 12 feet by 8 feet structure during the 3 years that I taught in that area. Of course, that 12 feet by 8 feet structure did not have any cooking or lighting facilities. Hopefully, it is no longer there. But this is the sort of thing that was provided for teacher housing not 20 years ago. I believe that probably there is teacher housing in country areas which is still as poor. Perhaps there are listening to the broadcast of this debate people who are living in teacher housing like that. 
If we look at the recommendations of the Schools Commission we see that the Commission originally suggested for the triennium that we are discussing that money should go into teacher housing and also to the States so that they can provide for pupils who are educationally disadvantaged by living in the country. These things are in the report of the Schools Commission. I have barely mentioned the tip of the iceberg in regard to some of the problems that are facing education in Australia. I make a plea to the 
Government not to jeopardise the future of education in Australia by cutting or freezing expenditure in this vital area. 
I recall that 19 years ago I was in my first and only year as a trainee teacher. After one year as a trainee, inadequately trained I was sent out into the educational world. I think that things are much better now. We have much better trained teachers and much better facilities. But things would want to be much better than they were in those days. There is no reason to suggest that we have reached our optimum level. In fact, the people who came to Canberra to see us last week would suggest that we have a long way to go. I think that the improvement that I have seen during the years that I have been associated with education has been, to a large extent, due to the fact that we have had professional bodies with experts who have looked at education and have been able to make recommendations to government on a non-political basis. 
I am hopeful that this trend will continue, and that the Government will be able to do for education what has been done during the last few years in Australia. In the years to come I think that we will be able to face the question of education much better than we have faced it, say, in the last 20 years because demographic analyses seem to indicate that as far as school numbers are concerned, there will be a rapid deceleration in growth rates. There will still be a rate of growth, but that rate will be decelerated. Therefore, we will have a much better opportunity for facing the problems that I have mentioned and the other problems that we face in Australia. I make a final plea to the Government not to jeopardise the future of education by cutting or freezing expenditure in this vital area. 
-I present the following petition from 69 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That reduction of the age limit from six years to eighteen months for patients eligible to receive cows' milk substitutes as a Pharmaceutical Benefit under the schedules of the National Health Act will cause serious financial hardship to many families; 
That the Government's action is responsible for a severe increase in the cost of cows' milk substitutes which penalise parents of children aged eighteen months and over who have a medical need for these substitutes. 
That there is an urgent, humane need to restore cows' milk substitutes to children up to six years of age to the schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that cows' milk substitutes be restored to the Schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits for children up to the age of six years as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many persons of Aboriginal descent are at present resident in each electoral division in Australia. 
What was the corresponding figure for each electoral division in 1972. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Is Information Electronics Limited owed an amount of $44,622 for services rendered to the Navy, the Royal Australian Air Force and the former Department of Manufacturing Industry; if so, have the relevant Departments authorised payment of each of their respective accounts. 
If the answer to (1) is in the affirmative, for what reason has the Treasury delayed payment to the company concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Have all Australian Banks agreed to accept fortnightly pension payments to cheque accounts. 
Have some Savings Banks indicated their willingness to accept fortnightly pension payments by direct credit to bank accounts; if so, which Savings Banks are involved. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article by  Dr John  A. Comerford entitled 'Where Do All Our Aging Medicos Go?' which appears in the Medical Journal of Australia of 28 February 1976. 
Does the Minister agree in principle with  Dr Comerford  's thesis that many private practitioners in Australia do not adequately plan for retirement in financial matters. 
Has the Medical Practitioners' Superannuation Fund submitted a proposal to the Treasury for the indexation of superannuation on a tax rebate basis. 
Would this be an equitable system. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Department of Repatriation ordered that doctors restrict the use of free transport for ex-servicemen. 
Does the Minister agree with statements by the Returned Services League of Australia that abuses of free transport have not been widespread in the past; if so, why have the restrictions been instituted. 
Under the new guidelines, how will patients qualify for free transportation. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the format for the 1976 census form been decided upon; if so, will the Treasurer table a sample copy of the census form for the information of Senators, together with copies ofthe relevant form used in the last census. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to a situation in which a person who is in receipt of the unemployment benefit and who has worked previously in a situation in which award wages apply is offered a job by the Commonwealth Employment Service in relation to which only piece work rates apply, that is, where there is no guarantee of a particular minimum wage. Is such a person obliged to accept such a job offered by the Commonwealth Employment Service in order to prevent his or her unemployment benefit being terminated? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications inform the Senate whether some Australian radio programs, including news programs, which have been broadcast in northern areas of Australia are being jammed by transmitters located outside Australian waters? If this is happening, will the Minister provide the Senate with the relevant details? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice. 
Did the Minister announce on 4 February that the Government would cut spending in the field of Aboriginal affairs by $7m this financial year. 
Was the Minister in his prepared statement unable to indicate exactly where savings would be made. 
Can the Minister now be more precise in relation to the reduction which will take place. 
Does the Government plan to abolish the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What proportion of (a) the population and (b) all persons with criminal convictions, is represented by persons of Aboriginal descent in each State of Australia and the Northern Territory in each year since 1 970. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs upon notice: 
1 ) Did the first National Conference on Adoption, held in Sydney in February 1976, give total support to the placement into Aboriginal families of all Aboriginal children available for adoption or fostering. 
Will the Minister give an undertaking to this Parliament that he will support the setting-up of Aboriginal run and controlled agencies in each State and Territory to facilitate the placement of such children. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Federal Bureau of Roads recommended that there be no increase in funds for rural roads in Australia in the next financial year. 
Are shire councils in Victoria cutting back their outdoor staff by up to 10 per cent because of a serious shortage of money for roadworks. 
Are similar financial problems being experienced in other States. 
Is this shortage of funds contributing to a deterioration in the standard of country roads in Australia; if so, will the Minister agree to provide additional assistance to the States in the 1 976-77 Budget, for rural roadworks. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) How many members are there on the Prime Minister's personal staff. 
What are (a) their names (b) designations and (c) salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary Public Servants. 
From which departments have the permanent Public Servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by the Prime Minister. 
Are these advisers and consultants full time or part time and what are their names and salaries. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Minister seen a statement made by the  President  of the Victorian Taxi Association,  Mr Allen  Lang, that State and Federal taxes are crippling the taxi industry in Australia. 
Does the Minister accept that taxis are no longer a luxury but a basic form of transport in Australia. 
Will the Government agree to the Victorian Taxi Association's submission for the abolition of sales tax on taxis in order to assure the economic survival ofthe industry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Minister seen comments by  Mr Albert  Field,  Chairman  of the Townsville Harbour Board, that centralised container shipping of beef is costing Australian cattlemen too much and could put them out of business. 
Does the Minister agree with  Mr Field's  assessment that a radical change in beef shipping arrangements from Australia is needed to break the monopolistic grip of the container shipping conferences. 
Will the Minister discuss with his colleague, the Minister for Transport, the advisability of re-introducing the reefer trade from Townsville. 
Would this re-introduction allow more beef to be shipped from North Queensland without jeopardising container shipping from bigger southern ports. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that the results of a six-month research survey into migrants in Australia conducted by the Central Methodist Mission indicated that British migrants are the loneliest and, intitially, the most disgruntled, of all newcomers to Australia. 
Does research conducted by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs correlate with this conclusion. 
Will the Minister delay his recently-announced plans to encourage more British migrants to Australia until the Government has fully inquired into the problem encountered by British migrants in this country. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that the lecturer in Genetics at La Trobe University in Victoria,  Dr Donald  McPhee, has called for an inquiry into the safety of chloroform levels in Australian toothpaste. 
Has the Department of Health received details of reports issued by the Ralph Nader Organisation in the United States of America that seriously call into question the safety levels of chloroform used in toothpaste. 
Will the Minister agree to the Australian Government Laboratory making a detailed study of all brands of toothpastes on sale in Australia, as a matter of urgency, to determine accurately the safety of chloroform use in them. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Does the Government recognise the agreement entered into with the Pharmacy Guild of Australia in April 1972 by the previous Liberal/Country Party Government to determine chemists' remuneration in dispensing pharmaceutical benefits; if so, when will a decision be made on the back payments owing to chemists as a result of that agreement. 
If the answer to (1) is in the negative, does the Government consider High Court action on the part of the Pharmacy Guild of Australia to force the matter to arbitration a reasonable course for that organisation to take. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Pharmacy Guild of Australia claiming back payment of $70m or seeking arbitration on the issues in dispute following the 'Scott Inquiry', in accordance with an agreement made by the previous Liberal and Country Party Government in 1972. 
When does the Minister expect to be able to advise the pharmacists of Australia and, in particular, the Pharmacy Guild of Australia, of the result of the Government's consideration of the 'Scott Inquiry' into Chemists' Earnings, Costs and Profits. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the New South Wales Health Commission investigating the first details in relation to hospital costs since the introduction of Medibank. 
Do the figures which have become available appear to indicate that in some country hospitals in New South Wales, especially where there are relatively few medical practitioners per head of population, hospital costs are very high. 
Is there evidence to suggest that a considerable number of medical practitioners in country towns in New South Wales are overcharging patients to a massive degree as a result of the fee-for-service system adopted in country hospitals. 
Is the Australian Medical Association actively campaigning for the introduction of the fee-for-service system in all hospitals in Australia. 
Would the introduction of the fee-for-service system be in the best interests of the Australian community, if experience in New South Wales country hospitals proves correct. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Australian Shipping Commission withdrawn from the project to establish a roll-on roll-off ramp facility in Cairns Harbour. 
What is the official reason given for the decision. 
3 ) When was the decision taken. 
Is the Government at present reviewing the case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Government been studying the Report of the National Population Inquiry chaired by Professor Borrie. 
Does the Government intend making a full statement on the findings of the Inquiry and their implications for Government policy. 
Have there been any alterations to Government policy in any area as a direct result ofthe Inquiry; if so, what were the alterations involved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1) Is the Minister aware of reports that bank managers in some Western Queensland areas are directing grazier clients to sell their woolclip privately. 
Has the Department of Primary Industry any information as to the accuracy of these reports. 
3 ) What banks are involved. 
Will this situation lead to an eventual breakdown in the auction system if it is allowed to continue. 
Would widespread private selling lead to a decrease in the level of wool prices in 1 977. 
Does the Government intend to take steps to end the private sale of wool in the light of its huge financial support for the auction system of selling wool in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Treasury undertaken a private investigation into what level of reserve price should be undertaken by the Government in the next wool selling season. 
What expertise does the Treasury have in this field. 
When did the Minister for Primary Industry become aware of the Treasury investigation. 
Did the Treasury recently invite representatives of the Australian Council of Wool Selling Brokers to discuss this matter with Treasury officers. 
When did the Minister for Primary Industry become aware of the invitation. 
Has the Department of Primary Industry been formally consulted on the level of reserves for the new season. 
Has the Australian Woo) Corporation been consulted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Whitlam Government promise to meet the legal expenses of maritime unions involved in the Hobart Bridge Disaster Inquiry; if so, has the present Government agreed to honour that commitment. 
Have funds yet been received by the unions; if not, what is the reason for the delay and when can the funds be expected. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is  Mr Charles  Perkins employed by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
What is  Mr Perkins'  position, the salary range for the position, and the duties involved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee request the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to make copies of the Minutes of the Committee's Meetings available to Aboriginal people through regional offices of the Department. 
Has the Department refused to meet this request, if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Australian Police Federation requested the Australian Government to provide a special law enforcement grant of $200m to the States; if so, did the Federation in its submission warn of a rise in white collar and organised crime if State police forces do not urgently receive substantial financial assistance. 
Has a decision been made on any submission by the Federation; if so, when was the decision made, and by whom. 
What was the decision, and what reasons were given to the Federation for the decision. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Is the Department of Defence investigating allegations that Public Servants and civilians have been buying cheap liquor from Defence establishments; if so, what form has this inquiry taken. 
When was any inquiry instituted, and when will it report. 
Will every report be tabled in the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Has the Government disbanded the Australian Government Liaison Service which circulated press releases from Australian Government Ministers to interested community and business groups and to media outlets. 
Is it correct, as reported in the Sunday Telegraph of 11 April 1976, that the Government is concerned that its policies are not being adequately comprehended in the electorate. 
Is it also correct that the Government has now decided to re-establish this service by mailing Ministerial Press Releases to community, media and business groups. 
What would be the likely cost of such an exercise. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many cases of imported malaria have been detected in Australia in each year since 1 970. 
What is the annual cost of providing treatment to persons afflicted with malaria in Australia, and the total amount allocated to preventive measures. 
To what extent does the Australian Government support international programs for eradication of malaria through bodies such as the World Health Organisation. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that parthenium weed, or ragweed as it is more commonly called, is posing a serious problem in the Central Highlands region of Queensland. 
Has the Department of Science received any submissions requesting financial assistance in eradicating the weed; if so, from whom. 
Has the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation or the Department of Science carried out any research into the problem. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs upon notice: 
1 ) Has the  president  of the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders,  Mr Joe  McGinness, called for the establishment of an Aboriginal Affairs Bureau independent of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
Has the Minister received a formal submission on this matter: if so, has the Department investigated the suggestion, and if not, will it do so. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon services: 
1 ) Was it claimed in an article in the  Financial Review  of 22 April 1976, that the Government is considering removing the power of Parliament to disallow redistributions under the Electoral Act in cases involving variations to the quota of representatives from any one State. 
Is the Government studying the implications of the recent High Court decision on electoral boundaries; if so, when is it expected that the study will be completed. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Taxpayers' Association estimated that the withdrawal of housing loan interest claims as from 1 July 1976, could cost the average taxpayer as much as an additional ten dollars per week. 
Has the Treasury made an official estimate of the additional cost to the average taxpayer of this withdrawal; if so, what is that estimate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister, or the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, had any discussions formal or informal, with the Queensland Parliamentary Commissioner for Administrative Investigations,  Mr David  Longland, C.M.G., since  Mr Longland  recently visited Aurukun; if so, has the Minister taken any action as a result of those discussions. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
How many officers ofthe (a) United States Secret Service and (b) the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation accompanied Vice-President Rockefeller on his recent visit to Australia. 
How many of these officers arrived in Australia prior to the Vice-President's arrival, and when did they actually arrive. 
Is it usual for foreign dignitaries to bring their own security detail to Australia. 
Were the United States' officers permitted to carry weapons whilst on Australian soil. 
What rights, over and above those usually accorded visitors to Australia, were these officers given in order to carry out their responsibilities in protecting the VicePresident. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister approved the purchase of computer terminals for Medibank. 
What is the total cost of any order concerned, and from which company are the computer terminals to be purchased. 
Has there been a delay in obtaining Treasury approval for any such purchase; if so, what is the reason for the delay. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Are Commonwealth Police investigating the disappearance of $40,000 which was being sent from Darwin to the Elcho Island Mission; if so, how was the money being sent to Elcho Island Mission, and from whom. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What reports will be affected by the decision of the Government to cease funding the publication of research reports by the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty. 
What would have been the estimated cost of publishing each of the reports concerned. 
Is the preparation and publication of research reports an integral and important part of welfare planning and administration. 
Will this decision to cease funding the publication of research reports have an adverse effect on the quality of debate in this important area of social welfare. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications the following question, upon notice: 
Has the Government received submissions from any business operations, particularly in the advertising industry, claiming that they will be adversely affected by the Government's decision to ban all cigarette advertising from 1 September 1976; if so, how many separate submissions have been received. 
Is the Government considering any form of compensation to business firms so affected, or to their employees. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Government abandoned plans to finance a centre in Melbourne designed to give contraceptive advice and sex counselling to young people; if so, who took the decision, and for what reason. 
Has the Government already spent several thousand dollars renovating the premises and purchasing equipment and furnishings. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Were three squadrons of Mirage 111-0 supersonic fighter aircraft of the Royal Australian Air Force grounded early in April 1976; if so, (a) how many aircraft were involved, and for how long were they out of action, (b) why were the aircraft grounded, and what checks were subsequently carried out, and (c) did the checks disclose any deficiencies in the aircraft. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did a meeting of Federal and State Ministers with responsibilities for local government take place in April 1976; if so, when and where was the meeting held. 
Did the Ministers discuss a working party's recommendations that a universal bed tax be placed on hotels, motels and boarding houses; if so, what was the result of those discussions. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Have any State Government Departments made submissions to the Administrative Review Committee, chaired by  Sir Henry  Bland; if so, which Departments have made submissions, and on what subjects. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice: 
1 )  Has the Minister seen reports of a meeting in Brisbane last week between the Queensland Premier,  Mr BjelkePetersen,  and the Papua New Guinea Minister for Information and Broadcasting, Dr Taureka 
Has the Australian Government been officially informed that, subsequent to this meeting, the Queensland Government announced that it offered a technical aid scheme to Papua New Guinea; if so, when did the Australian Government receive that advice, and from whom. 
Is it usual practice for State Governments to negotiate aid and assistance agreements with foreign powers without reference to the Australian Government. 
Has the Australian Government had any indication from the Government of Papua New Guinea whether it will accept the aid which the Queensland Government offered. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 )  Is the report by Jack Percival in the Sydney  SunHerald  of  2  May  1976,  that senior Royal Australian Air Force equipment officers have warned the Defence Department of signs of metal fatigue in the Mirage aircraft operated by the force, correct; if so, what effect is metal fatigue having on the current operation of the Mirage aircraft, and what will be the long-term effect. 
If the answer to ( 1) is in the affirmative, will the Mirages need to be replaced because of the effects of metal fatigue; if so, when. 
Has a decision been made on a replacement aircraft for the Mirage. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Australian Association of National Advertisers officially offered to place advertisments on Australian Broadcasting Commission radio and television to help make up the $8.4m cutback in the Commission's funding for this financial year. 
) Would viewers and listeners of the Australian Broadcasting Commission not accept or tolerate commercial advertising. 
Will the Minister affirm that the Government has no intention of seriously considering such a proposal. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Did Telecom Australia make a profit of $67.1 m in the first six months of its operation? 
Is it expected that Telecom Australia will make a profit of $ 1 60m in its first year of operation? 
Would an annual profit of $160m make Telecom Australia the largest money-making enterprise in Australian history? 
Will the Government agree to a substantial reduction in telephone charges in the 1976-77 Budget? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister received a copy of the results of a special survey conducted by the Federation of Australian Radio Broadcasters which revealed that 34 of Australia's 1 18 commercial radio stations failed to make a profit during the 1974-75 financial year. 
Is the Government taking any action to assist the Australian broadcasting industry. 
I present the following petition from 307 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble Petition respectfully showeth: 
That reduction of the age limit from six years to eighteen months for patients eligible to receive cows' milk substitutes as a Pharmaceutical benefit under the schedules of the National Health Act will cause serious financial hardship to many families; 
That the Government's action is responsible for a severe increase in the cost of cows' milk substitutes which penalise parents of children aged eighteen months and over who have a medical need for these substitutes. 
That there is an urgent, humane need to restore cows' milk substitutes to children up to six years of age to the schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that cows' milk substitutes be restored to the Schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits for children up to the age of six years as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Omega Station in Australia 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Is it a fact that, due to a lack of funds, the external studies department of the University of Queensland can no longer post notes weekly to external students but now mails them once each 3 weeks? If that is so, is there any way in which the Commonwealth Government can assist to have funds made available to remove the difficulties which are now faced by external students due to these circumstances? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Did officers of the Department of the Northern Territory meet with executives of Nabalco recently to discuss the pollution of Melville Bay; if so, when and where did the meeting take place, and who was present. 
Has the Department been aware of the severe pollution of the Bay for the last two years. 
Did  Mr John  Lake of the Department of the Northern Territory tell the Nabalco executives at the meeting, as claimed in the  National Times  of 1 9 April 1 976, that it would be greatly to Nabalco 's and the Department's disadvantage if the public knew of the degree of pollution occurring at present. 
How serious is the level of pollution at present. 
Does the Department maintain that Nabalco is responsible for major pollution of the Bay. 
What effect is the pollution having on the fishing activities of the Aboriginal community of Nhulunbuy. 
What action does the Government intend taking to stop the Nabalco plant polluting Melville Bay. 
Will the Minister agree to table in the Senate the minutes of any meeting between the Department officers and Nabalco. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
How many man-hours have been lost in Australia through (a) strike action: (b) lockouts: (c) sickness: and (d) industrial accidents, in each month since January 1975. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Minister recently inform a delegation that the Australian Government will not be providing any funds whatsoever to sporting groups until some time in 1977. 
) Does this mean that no funds for this purpose will be provided in the 1976-77 Budget. 
I present the following petition from 68 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That reduction of the age limit from six years to eighteen months for patients eligible to receive cows' milk substitutes as a Pharmaceutical benefit under the schedules of the National Health Act will cause serious financial hardship to many families; 
That the Government's action is responsible for a severe increase in the cost of cows' milk substitutes which penalise parents of children aged eighteen months and over who have a medical need for these substitutes. 
That there is an urgent, humane need to restore cows' milk substitutes to children up to six years of age to the schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that cows' milk substitutes be restored to the Schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits for children up to the age of six years as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Did research assistants who are employed by some Government members attend a seminar in Canberra this week? If so, are any public funds being used to meet the cost of providing travel to Canberra and accommodation in Canberra for those taking part in the seminar or for expenses associated with the seminar itself? If such a seminar is being held this week, have officers of any Government Department or officers of the Parliament, such as the staff of the Parliamentary Library, been co-opted to lecture to the seminar? 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister received a letter from  Mr John  Bayly. Secretary of the Australian Council for Balanced Development, in which the Government is urged not to drop its support for growth centres. 
2 ) Did  Mr Bayly  state in the Melbourne  Age  of 1 April 1976. that the Government's apparent change of mind on this program could damage confidence in the private sector and set the program back a generation. 
Will the Minister agree to  Mr Bayly's  request that he receive a deputation from the Australian Council for Balanced Development before taking any decision relating to the future of growth centres in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the total expenditure by the Department of Repatriation in 1974-75. 
What was the total amount outlaid for each of the following items in that year: (a) fees to specialists, (b) fees to medical practitioners, (c) fees to pathologists, (d) fees to radiologists, (e) salaries for Repatriation Hospital doctors, (f) salaries for Repatriation Hospital nurses, (g) salaries for other staff employed by Repatriation Hospitals, (h) funds for maintenance and operating expenses of Repatriation Hospitals, and (i) funds to ex-servicemen who are in receipt of disability allowances. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons of Aboriginal descent were employed in each Commonwealth Department at 31 December 1975. 
Does the Government encourage Departments to employ persons of Aboriginal descent. 
3 ) Has any such encouragement continued following the recent cutbacks in public service staffing arrangements. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Assistant General Manager of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Lid's Whyalla shipyard.  Mr Ross  Hawke, claim that the whole future of the shipyard is in doubt. 
Has the Whyalla yard only enough orders to carry it through until late in 1977. 
Will the yard commence scaling down in its planning and design sections later this year. 
Is the Government giving urgent consideration to bolstering the Australian shipbuilding industry and. in particular the Whyalla yard, as the jobs of 2800 men are involved. 
Is the Minister considering the reintroduction of restrictions on foreign made vessels working Australian coastal runs, or the payment of subsidies to the Australian shipbuilding industry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister list, by country of origin, the number of persons who (a) applied, (b) were approved, (c) were rejected for entry into Australia, in the months of December 1975. January 1976 and February 1976. 
How many persons arrived in Australia as (a) visitors and (b) residents in the months of December 1975. January 1976 and February 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government intend introducing secret ballots for the election of all officials of industrial organisations in Australia. 
Will the necessary legislation refer to both trade unions and employer organisations. 
Has the Minister, or officers of his Department, officially discussed these proposals with representatives of the trade unions and representatives of employer organisations; if so, when have these discussions occurred, and with whom. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did notice of a number of vacancies in the office of the Commissioner for Community relations in each State appear in the Australian Government Gazette on 18 December 1975. 
How many positions were involved, and when did nominations close. 
How many of these positions have been filled. 
What is the current level of staffing for the Office of the Commissioner for Community Relations in each State. 
Are the positions advertised on 18 December currently the subject of an investigation by the Administrative Review Committee. 
6 ) What effect has the delay in filling the positions had on the work of the Commissioner for Community Relations. 
How many cases are currently awaiting attention by the Commissioner for Community Relations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Petroleum and Minerals Authority acquire five million one cent paid shares in Mareeba Mining NL in 1974; if so, did those shares revert to the Commonwealth of Australia when the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Act was declared invalid by the High Court. 
Did the Australian Government loan $200,000 to Mareeba Mining NL in advance of calls. 
Was an additional loan of $300,000 advanced subsequent to that referred to in (2); if so, did Mareeba Mining NL use part of those monies to exercise an option it had over the Dianne Copper leases in Queensland. 
Did the Australian Government announce that it would spend $1.2m to help the Company develop the mine, and was an appropriation of $500,000 for this purpose included in the Budget for 1975-76; if so, has the present Australian Government failed to honour this commitment. 
When was any decision not to advance funds to Mareeba Mining NL for development of the mine taken, and by whom. 
Has the Company advised the Government whether it intends taking legal action against the Commonwealth over this matter. 
Has the Australian Government called up any loan moneys previously advanced to the Company. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation requested the Government to abolish margarine quotas, subject to the proper usage of Australian vegetable oils. 
Has a formal submission on this subject been received from the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. 
Have any other organisations or individuals made submissions on this matter. 
When is it expected that the Government will release its decision on any such proposal. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
How many trade unions in Australia are currently registered with the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
How many of them elect their officials by secret ballot. 
What percentage of total trade union membership elect their trade union officials by secret ballot. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the results of a survey on  The Physical Health of Aboriginal Adults in Bourke, New South Wales  by  Dr Max  Kamien, published in the Medical Journal of Australia of 10 April 1 976; if so, does the survey conclude that 79 per cent of all Aboriginal adults in Bourke in 197 1 were in need of medical attention. 
What steps has the Department of Health taken since 197 1 to ensure the provision of more effective health care for the Aboriginal adults living in the Bourke area of New South Wales. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister received submissions from representatives of the Australian mining industry arguing that many mining projects will not go ahead unless the Australian Government removes the $6 a tonne coal levy and adopts accelerated write-offs for mine development. 
Is the Minister aware that at least nine draglines are scheduled for delivery to companies involved in Australian mineral exploration by 1980. 
What is the current minimum cost of a dragline. 
Does the purchase of a dragline represent only approximately 10 per cent of the all-up cost of developing a mining project. 
If the answer to (2) is in the affirmative, have the firms involved informed the Department of National Resources that they will embark on new projects in the next ten years, whether or not the Government alters the policies outlined in (1). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, on 4 May 1976, the following question, upon notice: 
Is Australia represented at current trade talks in Geneva sponsored by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade; if so, has the Chief United States negotiator at the talks,  Mr W.  N. Walker, proposed a 50 per cent to 60 per cent cut in tariffs by all industrial nations. 
What has been the Australian delegation's response to this proposal. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Department of Primary Industry, as claimed in the Brisbane  Telegraph  of 28 April 1976, studying a suggestion that it purchase farms in financial difficulties and subsequently lease them to young people with an option to purchase; if so, has the Department consulted with State Governments about this proposal. 
If the answer to (I) is in the affirmative, when is it expected that the Department's inquiries will be completed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Taiwanese fishermen are currently detained in Australia as a result of their vessels being seized by the Australian Government for illegally fishing in Australian waters. 
What ships are involved, and where are the ships and their respective crews being held. 
Does the Australian Government meet the living expenses of the detained fishermen. 
What has been the cost to the Australian Government of detaining crew members of ships seized for illegally fishing in Australian waters for each year since 1 970. 
Has any of this outlay been recovered; if so, by whom. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the expenditure by the Attorney-General 's Department on legal aid in Queensland during 1 974-75. 
What were the names of the legal firms in Townsville. Rockhampton, Southport and Bundaberg which received fees and what amounts were paid to each of these firms. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the cost of implementing the Petroleum Search Subsidy for each year of its existence. 
What was the total expenditure on oil exploration in Australia for each of those years. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of the increasing spread of the oriental fruit fly in Australia. 
In which areas of Australia has the oriental fruit fly been detected to date. 
Is the oriental fruit fly considered by the Department of Science to be the greatest potential threat ever to face the fruit industry. 
Has the Government sent  Dr A.  I. Drew to Hawaii to study the oriental fruit fly. 
What other action has the Government taken to eradicate this pest. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Are Australian arthritis sufferers unable to obtain the gold injection Myocrisin because of an Australia-wide shortage of supplies of the drug; if so what action has the Department of Health taken to overcome this shortage. 
When will additional supplies of Myocrisin become available in sufficient quantity to meet demands. 
3) Is there an alternative to Myocrisin readily available to arthritis sufferers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Commonwealth Bureau of Statistics recently released its summary of Australian livestock numbers for the year ending March 1975; if so, does this summary indicate that Australia 's cattle population has increased by more than ten million in the three years to March 1 975. 
Is it expected that this trend will continue, if so, what effect is it likely to have on primary industry in Australia. 
Has the Australian Government given consideration to exporting some surplus cattle to developing nations urgently requiring breeding stock. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the  Chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board,  Mr Jack  Cass, state that there is a need to consider the upgrading of the Australian transport system to assist the movement of grain to ports. 
Has the Department of Transport given any consideration to the transport problems affecting the grain industry; if so, what action to alleviate these problems has been taken to date. 
Has any consideration been given to improving storage capacity at port terminals. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has the  President  of the Queensland Graingrowers' Association,  Sir Leslie  Price, called for an urgent inquiry into blatant profiteering by companies engaged in the manufacture of farm machinery. 
Is the Department of Primary Industry concerned at the effect of rapidly escalating farm machinery prices on the viability of the grain industry in Australia. 
Will the Minister consider instituting an inquiry into this matter. 
-I present the following petition from 1 36 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble petition respectfully showeth. 
That reduction of the age limit from six years to eighteen months for patients eligible to receive cows' milk substitutes as a pharmaceutical benefit under the schedules of the National Health Act will cause serious financial hardship to many families; 
That the Government's action is responsible for a severe increase in the cost of cows' milk substitutes which penalise parents of children aged eighteen months and over who have a medical need for these substitutes. 
That there is an urgent, humane need to restore cows' milk substitutes up to six years of age to the schedule of pharmaceutical benefits. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that cows' milk substitutes be restored to the Schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits for children up to the age of six years as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Education been drawn to comments by the Vice Chancellor of the University of Queensland,  Sir Zelman  Cowen, published in the  Courier-Mail  last Saturday, 22 May, that universities will be in a more uncertain position as a result of changes to the triennial funding system? Does the Minister agree with the Vice Chancellor that the changes indicated in the Treasurer's statement to the Parliament last Thursday night, that is, the provision of only indicative figures for the latter years of the triennium, will deny universities the capacity to plan ahead by knowing that stated sums are available? In the light of  Sir Zelman  Cowen 's statement, will the Minister agree to an urgent meeting between himself and the Vice Chancellors of all Australian universities to discuss the future of university education in Australia before the changes announced by the Treasurer are put into effect? 
I do not intend to keep honourable senators long this evening. When I receive answers to questions upon notice, I read them of course. But other people read them also. A person who read one of the recent answers to a question that I placed on the notice paper gave me some information which suggested that the answer did not reveal the total picture and that there were some definite omissions in the answer. I refer to the question answered on pages 1690 to 1693 of Senate  Hansard of %  May 1976. The question reads as follows: 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) How many members are there on the Prime Minister's personal staff. 
What are (a) their names (b) designations and (c) salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary Public Servants. 
From which departments have the permanent Public Servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by the Prime Minister. 
Are these advisers and consultants full time or part time and what are their names and salaries. 
A similar question was asked in relation to each Minister in the House of Representatives. The answer which was given to me covered Ministers in both Houses of the Parliament. Following information which I have received from private sources, I pose the following questions in relation to this answer: For each of the Ministers mentioned, do they have electoral secretaries and/or electoral research officers? If they do, was there any reason why these persons were not included in the information supplied in the answer? Could that additional information be supplied? A paragraph of the answer recorded on page 1690 states: 
In view of the honourable senator's concern, he will be pleased to learn that the present Government has reduced the number of ministerial staff from 242 as at 10 November 1 97S under the Labor Government to 1 66. 
I also ask whether that figure of 166 is correct. My calculation is that there are 106 ministerial staff listed in the answer. I would like to know where the other 60 people are. 
-I beg your pardon,  Mr Minister;  that is probably the answer to that question. I finally ask this question, which is probably the crux of the whole matter: Will the Minister have the information checked and advise the Senate of its accuracy as it does not correlate with some of the information which has been passed on to me? 
-Mr Temporary  Chairman,  I imagine that 
I must say what I wish to say by way of speaking to a point of order. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
How many persons of Aboriginal descent are currently unemployed in each State and in the Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Philippine Government imposed an across the board ban on all new Australian imports; if so, when was the ban imposed. 
) If the answer to ( 1 ) is in the affirmative, what reasons did the Philippine Government give the Australian Government for imposing the ban and for how long will it remain in force. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Have negotiations on behalf of the Commonwealth Government now been completed for a $30 million loan in Germany. 
Will such a loan from overseas increase the money supply in Australia, and thus to some extent counteract the effort which was made to reduce liquidity by the recent use of Savings Bonds. 
I wish to take this opportunity to make some comments about certain social security benefits. In making these comments, I want to point out what I think is the grave departure from practice that exists at the moment whereby certain people are not able to receive social security benefits when they deserve them. It seems to me that not only must social security benefits be made available on paper; they must also be made available actually for persons who are in need. I have been astonished, as I think a lot of my colleagues have been, by the number of people who come to my electoral office seeking assistance in relation to the non-receipt of payments or because of other undue delays. Usually I am able to assist these people and their problems are rectified fairly early. But the basic question is this: Why should a person have to come to a member of Parliament to have such things rectified? Why should a person who obviously has a need be required to wait for a benefit to which he or she is legally entitled? I have recently learned of a case where a person who was eligible for unemployment benefit did not receive any unemployment benefit. The person is now back at work and still has not received the benefit to which he is entitled. 
I have had a recent personal experience which has shown me that there are basic deficiencies in the methods available for getting money quickly to persons who are in need. I will state the case with which I have had experience. A friend of mine, whom I have known for many years, was recently involved in a very bad accident. He is a self-employed person. In the course of his selfemployment he was so badly injured that it seemed for some time that he might not live. While he was in hospital I- as a friend, not as a member of this chamber- offered to help his wife make a claim for sickness benefit for him. In making that claim I found out some of the deficiencies which obviously are occurring when people make similar claims. As far as I can ascertain, the form which was submitted to obtain a sickness benefit for this person was received by the Department of Social Security in Brisbane on 12 May. After it had been perused by certain people it was sent off to the field staff on the same date, 12 May. 
The claimant was not well enough to fill out the form. It was signed by him but had actually been filled out by another friend of mine on the claimant's behalf after getting certain answers to questions from him. After the form had been filled out I perused it. I made some investigations which involved interstate telephone calls to make certain that some of the information on the form was correct. After having done so I submitted the form to the Department of Social Security. As I have said, it was received on 12 May and perused, I think, by staff who usually make assessments and sent to the field staff on the same date. It was sent to the field staff because some more details that were not on the form were required in regard to the claimant's income. As I said, he was a self-employed person. It was necessary for the field staff to find out his normal rate of earnings by looking at his books or consulting persons with whom he had contracts. 
I inquired on 2 1 May of the progress or otherwise of this claim because at that date my friend had received no benefit. When I inquired on 2 1 May, which was 9 days after the form was sent to the field staff, I was told that the claim was still with the field staff office; no action had been taken on it at all. In other words it had been with that office for 9 days with no action being taken. It seems that if a person is to receive a benefit when he needs a benefit there should not be an undue delay like that. Earlier this year I asked the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  questions relating to the average waiting time between application for and receipt of a number of benefits. For sickness benefit, I was told, the average time between lodgment of claim and payment was 6 days. For this particular claim more than 6 days- the average timeelapsed while the file just remained dormant in an office. Later on in the answer to that question I was told more than half of the applications for sickness benefit are paid within 2 to 3 days of lodgment. Delays in the processing of the remaining cases which give rise to the higher average time are usually brought about by claimants providing insufficient information on their claims. 
It seems to me that the average waiting time has been unduly extended in this case, and perhaps in other cases, because of the time the file spent in the office. In this case someone put down the person's income on the form. I think the amount was $120 a week. But because he was self-employed the Department could not accept this information, or so it told me, without checking his books or finding out from people with whom he had contracts what his average weekly earnings were. If his average weekly earnings were less than the sickness benefit payable he would not be paid the full benefit. It was for this reason that the file was at the office. There was nothing more that I could do until the field staff had taken action. When I spoke to the field staff I was told that there were some other aspects also that had not been answered. I will come to that later. The main aspect was income. 
The point I want to make is that the file was dormant for 9 days. I do not know how much longer it would have been dormant if, on behalf of the person, I had not asked why the file had remained dormant for so long. An officer in the Department of Social Security said: 'We would do better if  Mr Fraser  gave us sufficient staff to do the job'. If that is the case it seems to me that we are providing benefits but we are not providing sufficient staff so that people can get their benefits on time and when they need them. Not only did he say this but also he said: 'We do not have enough transport to get out to these people. We have had some of our cars taken away from us'. What is the use of having benefits if this statement is correct? It is no wonder that some people become frustrated and filled with despair. 
I have even read in newspapers from time to time of people who allegedly have not received a benefit and have gone out to obtain money by unlawful acts because they needed to feed their families. This should not happen in Australia. If a benefit is payable it should be paid as quickly as possible. I am happy to say that in this case the benefit is now payable. I made inquiries this afternoon and my friend's wife will receive a cheque tomorrow. I am also happy to say that he is out of his serious condition and he will recover, but this is not really the point. The point is that I have had experience of seeing what some people go through when they try to get a benefit. I would not be surprised to learn that if I had not made a query about this last Friday the file could still be on that table waiting for a field staff officer to go and see the person. 
I make some other comments in relation to the form that is used to claim for sickness benefit. I do so because I think that perhaps my comments might be helpful. I said earlier that a friend of mine completed the form for the claimant and the claimant signed it after perusing what had been written. I perused the form and actually made some investigations as to certain aspects of the form. Even after the form had gone in there was one other piece of missing information. This missing information, I was told, would not have held up the claim normally but it was going to be checked out when the field officer went out to find out about the person's income. I imagine that officers from the Department of Social Security will read in  Hansard  what I say. I suggest that they have a look at the form from question 1 1a onwards. If they had had experience of having a lot of claims confused because of the layout of the form they might consider a somewhat different layout which could easily be devised by someone who has some knowledge of form design. 
Finally, I reiterate that I believe that there is not much point in having benefits if there is insufficient staff to ensure that the benefits will be paid when they are due. I suggest that the Government should take steps to rectify this situation. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is the Treasurer aware that Australians are being induced to subscribe to Rydge 's Business Magazine with the offer of a free book entitled  The New Ways of Reducing Executives' Tax,  written by  Mr Sam  Cullen, F.A.S.A. 
Has the Treasury studied the book concerned; if so. are the recommendations contained in the book within the Income Tax laws and regulations. 
Does Treasury recommend the book to all Australians in order that they may minimise the payment of income tux. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the National  President  of the Urban Development Institute of Australia,  Mr Neville  Telfer, state in the Melbourne  Age  of 1 April 1976, that it was a disgrace that the Federal Government has still not released its urban affairs policy. 
Does the Government have a complete urban affairs policy; if so when was it announced; if not, when will a policy be released for public scrutiny. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
Did a recent meeting of Federal and State Ministers discuss a proposal that the Australian Government should actively seek skilled workers from Great Britain, Holland and Germany; what action has been taken as a result of these discussions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Did the Queensland Minister for Primary Industries claim that the lifting of the Japanese beef import embargo in June 1975 was a direct result of work carried out  by  a mission to Japan led by the Queensland Minister of Primary Industries in March 1975. 
What part did the Australian Government play in having the embargo lifted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minster for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Did a violent attack occur on passengers on the Lloyd Triestino Company's tourist liner  Galileo  by members of the ship's crew; if so were there any Australians involved; if so. has the Australian Government taken steps to ensure their safety. 
Will the Minister consider refusing entry into Australian waters of the  Galileo  until a full enquiry into any such incident has been satisfactorily completed. 
asked the Minster representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Graziers' Association of the Riverina requested the Australian Government to institute an enquiry into livestock and marketing aimed at examining labour relations, shipping rates, rural income stabilisation and access to overseas markets: if so, when was the submission received. 
Has a decision been taken on the Association's request; if so, what was that decision. 
Have Departmental or other enquiries taken place on any of these matters in the last five years; if so, when? 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Did  Mr J.  S. Jackson, of the industrial economists John Jackson and Associates, state on 2 1 March 1976 that the cutbacks instituted by the Government can only result in unemployed resources. 
Is the implementation of civil works and social infrastructure drawn-up under the Whitlam Government essential for the survival of the building and construction industry in Australia. 
Is it correct, as stated by  Mr Jackson,  that, as a result of the cutbacks in Government expenditure, it could be 1980 before commercial development returns to a satisfactory level. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
Will the Australian television manufacturing industry collapse because of a massive build-up of imported colour sets. 
Are European and Japanese manufacturers dumping cheap sets on the Australian market because of depressed markets in their own countries. 
) Is there a danger of Australian buyers of foreign-made television sets being left without adequate maintenance facilities, and of thousands of Australian workers losing their jobs. 
Will the Minister take urgent action to investigate these claims and, if necessary, take steps to remedy the situation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government intend introducing secret ballots for the election of all officials of industrial organisations in Australia. 
Will the necessary legislation refer to both trade unions and employer organisations. 
Has the Minister, or officers of his Department, officially discussed these proposals, with representatives of the trade unions and representatives of employer organisations; if so, when have these discussions occurred, and with whom. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Government received any (a) enquiries and (b) applications for Australian residence from refugees of the civil war in Angola; if so, how many of each have been received. 
Have any Angolan citizens received approval for residence in Australia to date. 
asked  the  Minister representing  the  Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) How many ( a ) aircraft movements and ( b ) jet aircraft movements have there been in and out of Brisbane Airport in each year since 1970. 
Have any recent surveys or estimates been made on the likely (a) number of and (b) increase in jet aircraft movements into and out of Brisbane Airport during the next ten years, if so, what do they reveal. 
-I ask the Minister for Administrative Services: Is it a fact that the committee of inquiry into public libraries found that (a) 82 per cent of the population of all States but only 44 per cent of the population of Queensland is served by free municipal libraries; (b) 41 per cent of the population of Queensland but only 1 1 per cent of the population of all States has to depend on subscription libraries; and (c) 15 per cent of Queensland's population but only 7 per cent of the population of all States has no access to public libraries? Has consideration been given  to the Committee's recommendation that a special allocation of funds be provided to Queensland to facilitate the replacement of subscription libraries by free public libraries? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Department of Primary Industry accept as accurate the claim by the Australian Meat Exporters Federal Council, as reported in Queensland  Country Life  dated 29 April 1 976, that the Australian Meat Board is responsible for current shortages of shipping space for Australian meat exports. 
To what extent can the Minister direct the Australian Meat Board in its activities. 
Will the Minister consider directing the Board to immediately draw up an acceptable plan to control beef shipments to the United States of America after November 1 976, as suggested by the Australian Meat Exporters Federal Council. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Is the future of the International Tin Council being threatened by the possible withdrawal of Bolivia because of its disapproval of the new price limits set by the Council. 
Would the stability of Australian tin producers be adversely affected by the withdrawal of Bolivia from the Council; if so, what action has the Australian Government taken to persuade Bolivia to sign the recent International Tin Council Agreement. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the function of the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
Did the Council provide a grant to enable the appointment of  Dr C.  J. Bain to study ambulance and casualty services in Australia; if so, when was  Dr Bain  appointed, and what was the total grant provided by the Council for this purpose. 
If the answer to (2) is in the affirmative, has  Dr Bain  presented any report; if so, (a) did the report contain a recommendation that a National Ambulance Council be sei up and financed by contributions from the Australian Government and the various State Governments, (b) is the Department of Health studying any such proposal, and (c) when would the Department expect to complete its consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has Qantas Airways Ltd taken an option on the hotel being built as part of the new Collins Place complex in Melbourne; if so, when does Qantas expect the hotel to be completed, and when must a final decision be made on whether to exercise the option. 
) If the answer to ( 1 ) is in the affirmative; what is the anticipated cost of purchase of the hotel. 
Does Qantas currently own or operate any hotels in Australia or overseas. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister received any representations requesting him to prevent ships of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics entering the Australia-Japan shipping trade, if so, from whom have submissions been received. 
What action has the Minister taken as a result of any such representation. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Did the Minister meet with the Minister for Transport on 27 April 1976, to discuss whether a public inquiry should be held into Concorde flights to Australia; if so, what was the result of these discussions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of claims made in the Melbourne  Age  of 3 May 1976 by a Melbourne man,  Mr Ron  Gordon, that letters from Rhodesia to Australia are being opened and that pro-Rhodesian literature is put in them; if so, has the Minister, or his Department, undertaken an investigation into this matter to ascertain whether any literature was placed in the letter sent to  Mr Gordon  in Australia or elsewhere. 
If the material was not placed in the letter within Australia, will the Minister refer the case, and any other similar cases brought to his attention, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, so that appropriate action to stop this invasion of privacy may be taken. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the progress of the Departmental review of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme announced by the Minister for Health on 25 February 1 976. 
Will the Department of Health, in making this review, be consulting with the Australian Medical Association, the Pharmacy Guild of Australia, and the Australian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers' Association to obtain their sub.misions to such a major review. 
If no consultation is undertaken, will the Minister take steps to ensure a discussion paper is prepared by the Department of Health and comments sought from representative organistions who participated in the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, including consumer groups. 
Does the Minister intend to make public the finding of the Departmental review. 
When does the Minister expect the review to be completed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister been requested by the Australian Medical Association to amend regulations which require medical practitioners to endorse prescriptions for Subsidised Health Benefits Plan recipients with their Subsidised Health Benefits number; if so, what action has so far been taken on this request. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the results of a survey on the 'Physical Health of Aboriginal Children in Bourke, N.S.W.' by  Dr Max  Kamien, published in the Medical Journal of Australia of 10 April 1976; if so, does the survey conclude that 72 per cent of all Aboriginal children in Bourke in 1 97 1 were in need of medical attention. 
What steps have the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the former Office of Aboriginal Affairs taken since 1971 to ensure the provision of more effective health care for the Aboriginal children living in the Bourke area of New South Wales. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the function of the Program Division of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
Is the Program Division headed by an Assistant Secretary or a First Assistant Secretary. 
Is that position currently vacant; if so, when is it expected that an appointment will be made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Department of Aboriginal Affairs received an official request for financial assistance from the newlyestablished Aboriginal Embassy in Canberra; if so, what financial and other assistance has been sought. 
Is the Minister aware that the Vice-President of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee,  Mr Keith  Saunders, has claimed that two foreign governments have approached the Embassy with offers of financial aid. 
Is the Minister aware of the identity of the two foreign powers concerned; if so, will he identify them. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Did a  Mr Warren  Beeby in a review of the Fraser Ministry in the  Australian  of 3 April 1976 claim that 'strained relations' exist between the Minister and his colleague, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
Are these 'strained relations' basically caused by vague portfolio boundaries relating to the Ministries concerned; if so, is the Minister taking any action to ensure that the functions of the two portfolios are clearly defined. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
I ) Has the Minister seen a statement in the  Australian  of 3 April 1976 by  Mr K.  J. Peterson,  Chairman  of the New South Wales Division of the Australian Organisation for Quality Control, that nearly 160 000 small businesses in 
Australia are in danger of collapsing, many because of poor quality control of products. 
Is poor quality control a major reason for the economic problems facing small businesses. 
What action can the Department of Industry and Commerce take to ensure that small businesses do not collapse because of poor quality control and poorly made products. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the composition of the Council of Aboriginal Affairs. 
What is its function. 
3 ) How often does it meet. 
Does the Council present regular written reports to the Minister: if so, what reports have been submitted since November 1975. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer the Minister to her answer on behalf of the Minister for Health on 27 April to my question on notice relating to the Medibank Review Committee inquiry. The Minister will remember her advice that at that time a decision had not been made as to whether the report and recommendations of the Medibank Review Committee were to be tabled in the Parliament. Will the Minister now advise the Senate whether the Government intends to table the report of the Committee in order that an informed debate on the alterations to the Medibank concept proposed by the Government can take place? 
I believe that the previous Government made a major social advance when it introduced the Medibank system. The principle behind Medibank was widely debated before 1972 as it was debated after 1972 when the previous 
Government was elected. Even though that principle was debated and widely announced, there was a concerted attack on it by the then Opposition, by those people who are the current Government, and by forces outside. There was a concerted attack not only upon the principle but also upon the principal parliamentary architect of the scheme. I think he is to be congratulated for seeing this system through and for bringing it to fruition in the term of the previous Government. 
I can remember watching this process as an outside observer. At that time, I was not a member of the national Parliament. I can remember seeing then some things which disgusted me. I can remember seeing some of the attacks which were made on this proposal by members of the medical profession. If one went to a private medical practitioner and sat in the waiting room, one could see large signs which read: 'Do not be fooled. Say no to socialised medicine.' In the waiting rooms of private doctors' surgeries there was this propaganda put before the people. I do not mean my next statement in jest: If one was not ill before one entered a doctor's surgery, one certainly became ill while sitting in the waiting room. 
Despite all of these objections by the parliamentary opponents of this scheme and despite the objections by certain areas of the medical profession, the system which was called Medibank came into operation. It was not long after it was introduced that Medibank was universally accepted, or it was accepted at least by the majority of Australians. Some people pointed out some difficulties in Medibank. I had some people come to me recently to point out what was then and what still remains a difficulty with Medibank. These parents pointed out to me that they had a daughter who suffered from scoliosis. It is necessary for most children suffering this medical complaint- it is more prevalent in young girls than it is in young males- to wear a brace on their back. This brace can cost approximately $300. This charge was not covered by Medibank; it had to be borne by the parents in the case that I have mentioned. Certainly there were some deficiencies such as this in the scheme. Despite these deficiencies the scheme was widely accepted. 
I have some figures which were produced in the  Bulletin  in February of this year which show the change in the popularity of Medibank between 1975 and 1976. In 1975, of those interviewed 39 per cent favoured Medibank over benefit funds. Benefit funds were favoured by 33 per cent. A large percentage of those interviewed 28 per cent of the people- were undecided. By comparison, in January 1976, of those interviewed 46 per cent favoured Medibank, 35 per cent supported benefit funds and 19 per cent were undecided. At the beginning of this year, the majority of people favoured Medibank over benefit funds. 
To illustrate that it is not only the  Bulletin  which has mentioned this increase in the popularity of Medibank, I quote also from the  National Times  which pointed out that those who were very satisfied or somewhat satisfied with Medibank comprised 62 per cent of the people polled. Further, 14 per cent were neither satisfied nor dissatisfied; they were in the centre. Only 20 per cent of those polled were somewhat dissatisfied or very dissatisfied with Medibank. I compare that with the 62 per cent of those polled who, as I mentioned earlier, were in the satisfaction category. Finally, 4 per cent of those polled did not know. This example illustrates the popularity and acceptance of Medibank. 
It appears to me now that Medibank will not continue in the style that the people have accepted but will be mauled in the name of freedom of choice and also to achieve savings. I will detail more about freedom of choice later. I wish to mention briefly now some aspects of what happened in the course of the 1975 election campaign and what the present Government said it would do with relation to Medibank. In his policy speech,  Mr Fraser  said: 
We will maintain Medibank and ensure that the standard of health care does not decline. 
The key words are: 
We will maintain Medibank . . . 
But  Mr Fraser  did not say how he would maintain Medibank. It was not long after that that people started to question what would happen to Medibank under a new government. 
On 28 November, before the election campaign concluded, on  This Day Tonight,  Richard Carleton asked  Mr Fraser: 

 Sir, will Medibank stay on unchanged under you? 

 Mr Fraser said: 
We will keep Medibank but we don't say it wouldn't be unchanged. 
He then went on to explain that a little more fully. Finally Richard Carleton asked on this point: 
You may change it but you do not know how; is that the upshot of it? 

 Mr Fraser said: 
Well, this is a question of examination with the profession and with the States, and our position in this has been quite plain. 
But we were still not sure what was going to happen to Medibank. 
At least one member of the caretaker government at the time was honest about what he thought would happen to Medibank. He made it plain. In making it plain, he probably ensured that he did not enter the Ministry after the election in December. The  Australian Financial Review  reported the matter on 10 December in an article headed  Snedden's Medibank Gaffe.  The article reads: 
A suggestion yesterday by former Liberal leader Bill Snedden that a Fraser government elected on Saturday might have drastically to change Medibank brought a swift and sharp response from the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser. Mr Snedden  said that government expenditure would have to be cut back right across the board. The only area where cuts could be avoided was pension payments, he said. The cost of Medibank would be beyond the means of a Liberal Government. 'It is just too big', he said. The public who are making use of the service must make some contribution to it. 
At least  Mr Snedden  was honest. As the report goes on to say: Because of his honesty he probably made sure that he would have to wait a long time before he was returned to the Ministry. Indeed, that turned out to be correct. So, we were not quite sure what was to happen with Medibank, but we are certainly fairly sure now. I say 'fairly sure' because not all of the implications of the changes, I believe, have been brought out. If they have been brought out, the people are confused. Not only the millions of people who will have to make some decision about what they are going to do but even people in this Parliament find some aspects of what is proposed difficult to follow. 
I wish to make some remarks about the Medibank levy. There has been a definite reversal of opinion on the Government benches about a levy. When the Labor Government first proposed a levy to pay for Medibank, it suggested a levy of 1.35 per cent with a maximum premium of $150 a year. But that proposal was opposed by the then Opposition and the Labor Government could not get the levy through the Parliament. In this respect I refer to a typical statement in relation to the imposition of this levy by one of the people who were in Opposition at the time but who is now a supporter of the Government. It is interesting to note who this person is, but I will quote what he said first. This person said: 
The Opposition is opposed to the whole system by which this levy has been proposed. We place on record once again and we will keep placing on record for as long as we can our objection to the kind of scheme under which every wage earner will be charged a levy of 1.35 per cent. As  Senator Sheil  has said, let us ask the people of Queensland, who at the moment have some of their health services provided to them free, how they are going to feel about paying a levy of 1.35 percent. 
This person who in Opposition last year vehemently opposed the imposition of a 1.35 per cent levy spoke earlier today. I am referring to  Senator Baume.  Today he extolled the virtues of the current scheme. He has come around and is now accepting the imposition of a 2.5 per cent levy on incomes. Is he worried about what the people of Queensland will think about it now? No. He is willing to accept what last year he would not accept. 
We are now to have a levy of 2.5 per cent with a maximum payment of about $300 a year, but the maximum is applicable only if people are wary. I say 'wary' because if one has a look at the pamphlet which was released in tabular form at the weekend, one will see that it says in principle that if one has a taxable income of $12,000 a year or upwards one will have a Medibank premium of about $300 a year. One table says what one must do. It says that one must advise one's paymaster or any Medibank office or one will be charged 21/2 per cent of one's taxable income however large. I wonder how many people in the community are going to be caught, and there will be people in the community who will be caught, because they do not know the complexities of this matter as well as others? Some people who stay in Medibank will, because they do not know the complexities, be paying more than $300 a year. 
As well as having a levy there will be provision whereby we will be able to contract out of Medibank. We will be able to do so by taking out full private insurance. I believe that is just not possible to determine how many people are l ikely to opt out. The data just are not available to enable one to make an accurate assessment. I tried to make some calculations about how many people would opt out because of what the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  said a couple of weeks ago. He said that he believed that about 50 per cent of the people would opt out of Medibank. He was quoted in the  Canberra Times  as saying: 
About half the population would choose to have their health insurance wholly within private funds. 
Another article, which was probably written after consideration of the same Press statement, went a little bit further and said: 
Confusion about the new Medibank tax levy is expected to drive millions of people back into private hospital and medical funds. The Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  added to the confusion Yesterday when he said that people earning more than $14,000 a year would be better off in a private fund. 
This contradicted his earlier assertion that no one would be forced out of Medibank because of financial pressure. He predicted that perhaps 50 per cent of Australians would take out private insurance. 
I tried to make some calculations about how many people would be likely to take out private insurance and opt out of Medibank altogether. If all of the data were available it would be possible to make this sort of prediction because we know that when single people reach a taxable income of $4,280 it is better for them to opt out in some fashion if they want to take out additional insurance to cover themselves in intermediate or private wards. For a one-income family the critical point is an income of $8,600 a year. The same applies to a 2-income family. 
The sort of information that is needed is how many single persons in the community are above that income, which is able to be determined, and how many one-income families are in the situation of earning $8,600 a year or more, which is able to be determined, but statistics just are not available to show how many 2-income families are earning above $8,600 a year. Another statistic that is needed is the number of people who are currently in private insurance funds of some sort to get cover for intermediate or private ward accommodation. Quite surprisingly to me, that sort of statistic also is not available. So at this stage it is just not possible for one who wants to attack the problem in a scientific manner to know precisely how many people are likely to opt out. But I have had some people working on this matter. After having been told that it just could not be done with the statistics available I was told that it looked most likely that about half of the population will opt out. Maybe that will be the case. But that is the figure that I arrived at just using the sort of guesstimate that apparently the Minister for Health has used. 
It was mentioned earlier in this debate that savings will be made because of the changes to Medibank. I think that the savings are going to be illusory. Many people are apparently going to be forced into private insurance, so the expenses incurred by them will not be met by Medibank. The payment still will have to be made but it will be made by a different organisation or by different people. In fact, it seems to me to be something of a book-keeping trick to try to say that savings will be made because of the changes. There may be savings to the Government. There may be savings in the Medibank field. But there will not be savings in the community as a whole. In fact, it is my belief that the total community will face higher charges due to the administrative difficulties that will arise because of the changes. 
I believe that most of the higher charges to the community will occur because of management expenses within the private health insurance funds. 
If one goes back and looks at what the Nimmo Committee said in 1969 about the management expenses of the private health insurance funds one gets a fair idea of what they are in terms of a percentage of the contribution income. Certainly they may have changed since 1969, but I do not think that they would have changed significantly enough to dispel the argument that I am presenting that these funds are nowhere near as efficient in terms of using their contribution income to its maximum effect as Medibank. The Nimmo Committee reported on the 1967-68 financial year. In terms of hospital funds it said that the expense rates of the majority of them as a percentage of the contribution income ranged from 11 per cent to 13 per cent. The lowest fund had a percentage of contribution income used as its management expenses of only 6.2 per cent. The highest was 20.24 per cent. As I have said, the majority were in the range of 1 1 per cent to 13 per cent. But, taking 1 1 per cent as an example, it means that of every $1 that came into the insurance funds 11c was spent on management expenses. 
There was a somewhat similar situation in respect of the medical funds except that the percentage of contribution income that was used as management expenses was higher. The lowest in one fund was 10.86 per cent. The highest was 2 1.29 per cent. The majority were in the range 14 per cent to 16 per cent. That brings me to the question: What percentage of contribution income is spent by Medibank on management expenses? Unfortunately, again no one can really say what the exact figure is, but it seems to be accepted that it is about 5 per cent. The figure of 5 per cent was well accepted in the debate in the House of Representatives, but in case it is not accepted here let me mention some of the figures which suggest an amount of 5 per cent for Medibank administration costs. Apparently about $50m per annum is incurred in administration costs in Medibank at the moment. That $50m covers both the medical and hospital sides of Medibank. The amount is made up of computer costs, expenses for payment centres, and other internal costs. The total cost of Medibank is about $ 1,400m per annum. About $800m of that is spent in hospital grants to the States, which leaves about $600m for the medical side of Medibank. If all of that $50m for administration costs was debited against the medical side of Medibank, there would be a total administration cost of 8.3 per cent of income. But 8.3 per cent is high because the $50m obviously includes some aspect of the hospital side. It is generally accepted by people in departments connected with Medibank, or so I have been informed, that about 5 per cent of contribution income is used in Medibank for management expenses. That being the case, in terms of efficiency alone the Australian community would be far better off, looking at it in a businesslike way, if all health insurance fund payments were collected through Medibank because less would be spent on management expenses through Medibank. 
In moving back to the old system we will get not only the inefficiencies of the old system which relate to management costs. Management costs never come back to the contributor because a part of his fund is used. Further inefficiencies will also be created because Medibank will have to take certain management procedures which one would think normally it would not have to take if it were not covering 100 per cent of the population. I have been informed that Medibank will have to keep records for 100 per cent of the population, even though 50 per cent might opt out of Medibank altogether. I have been informed also that returns from the health insurance funds will be forwarded to Medibank so that Medibank will know whether a particular person in the community is covered by a health insurance fund. Even though only 50 per cent of the community might be in Medibank, it will have to retain funds for 100 per cent of the community. I am sure that will add to its administration costs by comparison with total contribution income. There will also be other administrative costs. Certificates will have to be presented to the Australian Taxation Office by health insurance funds so that the Taxation Office can be assured that people do not have to pay their 2.5 per cent levy. I imagine that there will be other costs associated with paymasters having to contact the Taxation Office to advise that people do not need to pay the full Medibank cost. It is because of those things that there will be extra administrative costs involved in having a dual system. 
I believe that the people of Australia want a simple and easy to understand system of health insurance. They want something they can follow easily. They certainly want to be covered by medical insurance of some sort. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was nearing the conclusion of my comments. I should just like to make a few more comments before I do conclude. I was making the point that people want a simple, easy to understand system of health insurance. People want health insurance, but they want to be able to understand it quite easily. They do not want to be confused by false concepts of freedom of choice, as my colleagues have said previously. The current proposal is outlined in a pamphlet which has been distributed and which most people in the community will read. This pamphlet seems to me to be like a complicated flow chart for a computer program. Indeed, I think one almost needs to be a systems analyst to be able to follow it. 
Even the Queensland Premier has become confused, or perhaps I should say he has become more confused. One can remember last year when for a long time he said that his State would not enter the Medibank system. But now, his State having been in it for some time, he has made a plaintive call to senators from Queensland, on the opposite side of the chamber from where I sit, to make sure that Queensland's free hospital system is retained. But where have the Government senators from Queensland been during this debate? I have heard nothing from them. I certainly want Queensland's free hospital system to be retained. I think that my colleague from Queensland who will speak shortly will say similar things. But no one really knows whether Queensland's free hospital system is going to be retained because of the confusion that surrounds the whole system. 
In conclusion let me say that I predict that before and after 1 October there will be confusion about this new system that is to be introduced. Indeed, I predict that after 1 October there will be cases of personal distress brought about by the confusion. I do not say this lightly or in any political sense. I think that most honourable senators in this chamber at the moment know my thoughts about people, and they know that I care for people and care that they get a fair deal. I care that they do not run into the sorts of financial problems that many people often do in times of distress. I am mindful of the fact that this confusion could occur. Wherever I am able possibly to do so I shall try to take away any confusion that people have. But I still think that confusion will remain. Because of this I think it is important that the Government should consider any comments that have been made by the Opposition in the hope that' this confusion will not remain. I hope that in the months ahead, and particularly during the recess, the Government will take into account the comments that have been made from honourable senators on this side of the chamber. Then, hopefully, when the system is finally brought in on 1 October there will be less confusion than, I am fearful at present there might be. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Treasurer's attention been drawn to a statement by the Queensland Minister for Local Government,  Mr Hinze,  in the  Courier Mail  of 20 April 1976, that Queensland local government bodies might get $27m a year initially from the new Federal income tax snaring scheme. 
What is the official Treasury estimate of the total amount that Queensland local government bodies can expect from this scheme. 
Seanator Cotton-  The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 

In my Economic Statement on 20 May 1976 I announced that the Government had decided to make $140m available through the States, to local government in 1976-77 in untied general revenue assistance. This amount represents an increase of 75 per cent on the general purpose assistance provided to local government in 1975-76 and should be seen as a major contribution towards making local government a genuine partner in our federal system. 
It is expected that decisions as to the appropriate division of the SI 40m between the States, and the appropriate break-up of individual State funds as between per capita amounts and amounts to be allocated by State Grants Commissions, will be taken after consideration of the Report of the Grants Commission and after discussion between the States and the Commonwealth Government at the forthcoming Premiers 'Conference on 10 June. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
When will the report of the Joint Royal Commission of the Federal Government and Western Australian Government into the Laverton incidents be tabled in the Federal Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in the Brisbane newspaper  The Telegraph  dated 30 April 1976, in which it is claimed that the administrative costs which resulted from the original decision by the Government to abolish pensioner funeral benefits were as heavy as the total cost of the actual benefit; if so, how many pieces of correspondence have been received by the Department of Social Security on this matter since the date of the original announcement that funeral benefits were to be discontinued. 
How many departmental officers were involved in answering the correspondence relating to funeral benefits, and were any of them transferred to Canberra from interstate for this purpose. 
What was the estimated cost of answering the correspondence, including salaries and overtime for those departmental officers involved, postage, and other administrative expenses. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that the Brazilian Government has taken action against the Brazilian Affiliates of three international tyre companies, Firestone, Goodyear and DunlopPirelli, relating to price fixing and other prohibited business practices which in effect had created an internal cartel of the three companies; if so, is the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs aware of any similar activities by these three companies in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Has access to some remote Aboriginal settlements in the North of Australia been restricted for vocational officers attached to the Aboriginal Employment Section of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations; if so, what settlements are involved. 
Has access to some other settlements been abolished; if so, what settlements are involved. 
What was the reason for any restrictions, and what result have they had on the effectiveness of the Aboriginal Employment Section. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons of Aboriginal descent were registered for unemployment benefit at (a) 31 December 197S, (b)31 January 1976, and (c) 29 February 1976. 
Does the Department take any special action to overcome the problem of unemployment in the Aboriginal community. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide a detailed list of direct expenditure in the Torres Strait Islands by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs since December 1972. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Have increases recently been applied to private mail bag and post office box services; if so, what are the current rates, and what were they prior to the increases. 
Has the Department of Post and Telecommunications received a substantial number of complaints from people living in rural communities about the increases. 
Is the Department, or Australia Post, currently reviewing the increases. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Department of Aboriginal Affairs reimburse ambulance centres for the cost of transporting Aboriginal patients; if so, which ambulance centres in Queensland have received reimbursement, how much have each of them received, in each financial year since 1 97 1-72. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs recently visit the Torres Strait Islands: if so, when did the visit take place and who accompanied the Minister. 
Did the Minister have discussions on the Torres Strait border issue during any such visit: if so what was the result of these discussions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each member of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. 
What is the composition of the Committee's Execeutive 
What is the (a) salary (b) cost of travel facilities (c) cost of office expenses, and (d) cost of entitlements and facilities other than (a), (b) and (c), for each member ofthe Committee. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Department of Aboriginal Affairs received any submissions seeking special assistance for the descendants of Pacific Islanders living in Australia. 
Do the descendants of Pacific Islanders at present receive any special grants, loans, or other financial assistance, from the Department, similar to that provided by the Australian Government to Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders: if not, is the Minister considering the provision of special assistance to the descendants of Pacific Islanders. 
I preface my question, which is to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, by remarking that on 26 May citizens of Rockhampton read in their morning newspaper that the Minister for Health had said that there was no dangerous shortage of influenza vaccine in Australia. I have been informed that the people of Rockhampton are still experiencing difficulty in obtaining the vaccine. Will the Minister undertake to have investigations made to see what the situation is in Rockhampton, whether it can be rectified if such an investigation reveals that rectification is necessary, and to see that the vaccine is allocated to pharmacists in that area on an equitable basis? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it correct, as claimed in an article by Andrew Clark in the  National Times  of 12 April 1976, that more than 40 per cent of Aboriginals in the workforce are currently unemployed. 
How many Aboriginals were unemployed as at (a) 1 January 1975, (b) 30 June 1975, (c) 1 January 1976, (d) 1 February 1976. (e) 1 March 1976, and (f) 1 April 1976. 
How many Aboriginals were there in the Australian workforce on each ofthe dates referred to in (2). 
In what areas has the Government cut back the activities of the Aboriginal Employment Section of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. 
5 ) Why was this necessary. 
Has unemployment amongst Aboriginals increased by 27 per cent since the activities of the Aboriginal Employment Section was first curtailed; if so, will the Minister urgently consider making sufficient funds and staff available to allow the Section to effectively carry out its responsibilities to the Aboriginal people of Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Has  Mr R.  Winroe been demoted from the position of Acting Officer-in-Charge of the Perth Office of the Aboriginal Employment Section of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations; if so, for what reason was this action taken. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Secretary of the Police Federation of Australia,  Mr Page,  in the Brisbane  Sunday Mail  1 1 April 1976. claim that gun laws in Australia are in a deplorable state. 
Is the Minister aware that the Annual Executive Conference ofthe Police Federation of Australia has decided to press for a meeting of Australian Police Ministers to discuss the need for stricter gun laws and greater control over the possession of firearms. 
Has the Depanment carried out any research on the number of unregistered firearms in Australia and their use. 
Will the Minister take steps to arrange a meeting of Australian Police Ministers to discuss this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Has the Northern Development Council been disbanded; if so, what was the composition and function of the Council. 
If the Council has been disbanded, what Depanment or authority is now attending to the functions formerly carried out by the Council. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Does Medibank meet any costs associated with abortions carried out on women in Australia; if so, what costs are met by Medibank. 
What is the total amount outlayed by Medibank for each item listed in ( 1 ) to women in each State of Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the  Miniser  for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of comments made by the  President  of the General Aviation Foundation,  Mr Laurence  Gruzman, Q.C., in the Sydney Sun-Herald of 16 May 1976, that the true causes of air, sea and major land crashes in Australia are often obscured by Department of Transport investigators. 
Is the Government considering the Association's recommendation of the establishment of an independent National Transport Safety Board to conduct all crash investigations in Australia: if so, when will the Government's inquiries into this proposal be completed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in the Brisbane  Courier Mail  of 10 May 1976, in which it is claimed that statistics provided in a paper to be presented by two Brisbane medical practitioners to an international ear disease conference in the United States of America in May indicate that only thirty per cent of Aboriginal children in Queensland have normal hearing; if so, has the Department of Health undertaken any research that would indicate the extent of ear abnormalities amongst Aboriginal people in Australia. 
Has the Department provided any funds, either through direct grants or via State instrumentalities, for research, and to treat hearing defects in Aboriginal people. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Did an aircraft, on which the Premier of Queensland was aboard, land at Canberra on Saturday, 8 May 1976 or Sunday, 9 May, 1976. 
If so, (a) what time did it land, and who was on board and (b) did this aircraft leave Canberra on 9 May 1976, and if it did, what time did it leave and who was on board. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Trade Practices Commission revoked the authority of the Australian Federation of Travel Agents to fine members and regulate the travel industry; if so, (a) for what reasons was this action taken; (b) what result will the decision have on the travel industry; and (c) what means will in future exist for regulation ofthe travel industry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister had discussions with the New South Wales Minister for Mines and Energy,  Mr Freudenstein,  concerning an application for an exploration lease to search for uranium in New South Wales by the French Atomic Energy Commission. 
Will the Minister give an assurance that approval for the lease will not be forthcoming from the Australian Government until the recommendations of the inquiry being conducted by  Mr Justice  Fox are known. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
On which Interdepartmental Committees is each Department of State represented at the present time. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many people have had prosecutions launched against them for offences relating to the Concessional Tax Rebate Form. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What funds has Australia provided through the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation in each year since 1970-71. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the full text of the financial guidelines under which organisations funded by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs currently operate. 
-Is the Minister for Education aware that the principal of John Flynn College at James Cook University,  Mr James  Martin, in a report debated in Brisbane on Wednesday, blamed the Radford scheme for an increase in the failure rate of first year university students? Can the Minister advise whether the Universities Commission or the Australian Department of Education has undertaken any research on the effect the Radford scheme is having on first year university students, particularly with regard to study techniques and the evaluation of lecture material? Finally, has the Queensland Government sought any assistance or guidance from the Minister relating to the announcement last Tuesday that it intends establishing a committee to inquire into the standards of primary, secondary and tertiary education in that State? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Did the Department of Overseas Trade complain bitterly to the Department of Health over the Department of Health's failure to adequately consult it over the new controls on cheese imports, as claimed in the Queensland Country Life dated 29 April 1976. 
Did the Department of Health adequately brief the Department of Overseas Trade on the new controls prior to their announcement. 
Has the European Economic Community officially compained about the new controls. 
Has the European Economic Community told the Australian Government that it believes the controls were invoked to assist the Australian dairy industry; if so, what was the Australian Government's response to this suggestion. 
Has the European Economic Community threatened to tighten up quarantine regulations against Australian agricultural exports to member countries in retaliation against the new cheese import controls. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has  Mr M.  Shegog resigned as General Manager of Aboriginal Hostels Limited; if so, 
what is the official reason for  Mr Shegog's  resignation, 
was any such vacant position subsequently advertised; if so, how many applications were received, 
was a panel of interviewers set up to interview any applicants, 
what are the names of members of any such panel, and were they all Board Members of Aboriginal Hostels Limited, 
when were any interviews held, and what was the cost of travel to Canberra and accommodation expenses incurred by the interview and the interviewees, 
was a final decision not reached because of the absence of  Senator Bonner, 
why was this delay necessary, and 
h ) when will a final decision be made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Ambassador to the United States of America, or any members of the Australian diplomatic staff stationed in the United States, contacted any of the current contenders for the Democratic Party or Republican Party nomination for the United States Presidency to ascertain details of those candidates' stated policies on the subject of United States- Australian relations; if so, which candidates have been contacted, and will the Minister outline details of the policy statements provided by the candidates concerned? 
If no candidates have so far been contacted, will the Minister instruct the Australian Ambassador to the United States to do so at the earliest possible opportunity? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Has the Isolated Childrens' Parents Association requested the Minister to initiate an immediate upgrading of the means tested allowances covering fees and other costs for parents of high school children who board away from home in order to complete their education. 
Has the Minister also been asked to simplify forms of assistance for rural families who have school children living away from home at hostels and boarding schools. 
If the answer to ( 1 ) and (2) is in the affirmative, when does the Minister expect to give a decision on these two requests. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
l ) Is the Prime Minister aware of reports in the United States that the Federal Bureau of Investigation of the United States was involved in the assassination of President John F. Kennedy in 1963, and that the members of the Warren Commission which investigated the assassination were involved in a cover-up of certain aspects of the assassination: if so, will the Prime Minister personally ascertain from the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, the Joint Intelligence Organisation, the Australian Security Intelligence Service, the Commonwealth Police Force, and other Australian security organisations that may be relevant, whether those organisations have received any information on the Federal Bureau of Investigation's involvement in the Kennedy assassination. 
If the Prime Minister does obtain any relevant information, will he agree to personally forward it to a reputable international organisation, such as the International Court of Justice or the Secretary-General of the United Nations, for attention. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Social Security, through the Reserve Bank of Australia, taken up the matter of anti-fraud regulations of the Commonwealth Savings Bank and Commonwealth Trading Bank as promised in Part 4 of the answer to Senate Question No. 448; if so, which action has resulted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Does Telecom Australia now charge for the messenger delivery of telegrams; if so, what is the charge, and when did it come into force. 
If the answer to (a) is in the affirmative, why was it necessary to initiate a charge for this service. 
What is the form of delivery of telegrams on which no messenger delivery fee has been paid. 
Has there been a discernible decline in the number of telegrams dispatched since the new policy was introduced. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Is a report in the Sydney  Sun-Herald of  18 April 1976 that telephone subscribers can be billed for phonograms they have never sent correct. 
What precautions does Telecom take to ensure that this does not occur. 
Does Telecom intend instituting additional controls to reduce the abuses which are apparently occurring. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
What were the numbers of (a) proceedings before conciliators of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and (b) of these matters, how many were satisfactorily completed during the months of December 1975. January 1976 and February 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Aborigines were registered as unemployed in (a) January 1976, (b) February 1976, and (c) March 1976, in the following towns in Western Australia: (i) Wyndham, (ii) Derby, (iii) Port Hedland, (iv) Geraldton, ( v) Kalgoorlie, (vi) Northam, and (vii) Bunbury. 
What (a) staff and (b) transport facilities does the Aboriginal employment section of the Depanment of Employment and Industrial Relations have in each of the towns listed in ( 1 ). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide a list of all grants made to organisations and individuals in the State of Queensland provided by his Department or by any authorities under his control, in the months of December 1975, January 1976 and February 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is an election for the 41 members of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee due to be held in September 1976. 
What preparations have so far been made for the election, and what has been the total cost incurred. 
Is there any move to postpone the election because of the inquiry currently being held into the future of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) What information is obtained by using radar equipment with upper level wind finding capability. 
What difficulties were experienced by the Bureau of Meteorology in February 1976 due to the upper level wind finding facility in Mackay being out of order and the facility in Coffs Harbour being intermittently faulty. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
I ) Did the Prime Minister recently discuss the possibility of a Qantas Airways Ltd airlink to the Seychelles Islands with the Prime Minister of the Seychelles,  Mr Mancham;  if so, what action has been taken as a result of those discussions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Is every member of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee entitled to an electorate office: if so. what is the electorate office address of each member of the Committee, and what was the total cost of maintaining each of the offices in 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the estimated cost to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs of providing administrative services to the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee each year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Are any employees of Aboriginal Hostels Limited in Queensland provided with rent-free accommodation, as has been claimed in the January 1976 edition of the newsletter Aboriginal and Islander Forum; if so, what is the salary and entitlements of each of the employees concerned. 
2 ) What is the total annual cost of providing rent-free accommodation to employees of Aboriginal Hostels Limited in each state of Australia, and the Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Was Australia represented at the First World Conference on Gifted Children held in London in 1975: if so, what representation did Australia have at the Conference. 
Did any Australian Delegation to the Conference subsequently make any recommendations to the Australian Government: if so, have any of those recommendations been accepted by the Government, and which of them have been put into effect. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Queensland Minister for Primary Industries,  Mr Sullivan,  made an official request on behalf of the Queensland Government for the reconstruction and reorganisation of the Australian Meat Board. 
If the answer to ( 1 ) is in the affirmative (a) what was the request made, and what form did it take (b) what suggestions has the Queensland Government made concerning (i) the future structure of the Australian Meat Board and (ii) the powers of the Board, particularly with relation to export contracts; and (c) what response, if any, has been given to the Queensland Minister's representations. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
In relation to replies to Questions 2SS to 273 and Questions 79 to 84, 
what alterations have occurred since those questions were answered in relation to each sub-section of those questions, 
were electoral staff, for example, secretaries and research officers, included in the answers to the questions, and 
if the answer to ( b) is in the negative, would the Minister provide details of such staff in a similar way as was done in the answers previously given. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Did the Australian Wool and Meat Producers' Federation carry a motion at its recent meeting in Adelaide calling on the Minister to advertise the position of  Chairman  of the Australian Meat Board, rather than appoint the  Chairman  as has been done in the past: if so, is the Federation's request under consideration, and when will a decision on the request be made. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
When will the report of the Inter-departmental Committee, inquiring into various matters relating to South Sea Islanders, be available. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of comments made on 6 March 1976 by the Secretary of his Department,  Mr R.  B. Lansdown, that major attention needs to be given now to planning for urban development for the next ten years. 
Does this mean that the urban development programs initiated by the Whitlam Labor Government will not suffer in the forthcoming Budget. 
Will the Minister guarantee that funding of urban and regional development programs will remain at least at the same level in this Budget as in the 1975-76 Budget. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Has the Government given consideration to limiting the use of subscriber trunk dialling facilities by Commonwealth Public Servants. 
What restrictions on the use of subscriber trunk dialling by Commonwealth Public Servants exist at the present time. 
Have any estimations been made of the savings that could result from severely restricting the use of subscriber trunk dialling by Commonwealth Public Servants. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Have the New South Wales and Western Australian Governments agreed to an extended credit scheme to assist the ailing building industry. 
Does this scheme involve the letting of construction contracts immediately, with payment to builders and architects promised for the next financial year. 
Will this scheme assist the building industry and maintain employment levels. 
Has the Australian Government given consideration to adopting a similar scheme for its own construction work. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Has the Australia Post been instructed to replace the Australia Post insignia on postal vans, public mail boxes and post offices with a new Royal insignia. 
Has Telecom received similar instructions. 
3 ) What is the estimated cost of any such move. 
Is such expenditure considered necessary. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Department of Aboriginal Affairs investigated claims made by a  Mr Martin  Tuck in the newsletter  Black News Service,  Volume 2, Number 1, of 23 February 1976, of widespread corruption on Aboriginal settlements in the Northern Territory; if so, what is the name and address of the architectural construction and consulting firm referred to in the article. 
Has the firm received funds or fees from Aboriginal communities or from theDepartment of Aboriginal Affairs; if so, what is the total amount received by them to date. 
3 ) Did the officer of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs referred to in the article act as an agent of the company to persuade Aboriginal communities to avail themselves of the company's services; if so, who is the officer involved and did he receive a commission for this work. 
Has the officer recently been transferred to the Queensland Branch of theDepartment of Aboriginal Affairs; if so, what is his present position. 
Has another officer from the Northern Territory Branch of the Department, who had links with a Darwin architectural and consulting and construction firm as claimed in the article, been transferred to the Queensland Branch of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs; if so, what is his name and present position. 
Does the firm, or firms, named in the article have a branch in Queensland. 
What action does the Minister intend taking over this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Is 11 July 1976 to be recognised as National Aboriginal Observance Day. 
What assistance has the Department of Aboriginal Affairs provided in past years to functions and activities held as pan of National Aboriginal Observance Day. 
What assistance does the Department plan to provide in 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Department of Aboriginal Affairs deferred the establishment of a nursing post at the Pantijan cattle project settlement in Western Australia; if so, why was the nursing post originally considered necessary by the Department. 
Have circumstances changed since the original decision to set up the post was made; if so, how have they changed. 
If the answer to (1) is in the affirmative, what is the total amount saved as a result of the deferral of the project. 
What health services are currently available to the Aboriginal community at the Pantijan cattle project. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Treasurer aware that, according to  The Australian  of 28 April 1976, the Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke  Petersen, has claimed in a letter to a Queensland rural newspaper that the Australian Government's economic policies are inflationary; if so, does the Treasury's official analysis of economic trends in Australia concur with  Mr BjelkePetersen  's judgment. 
Is the Treasury considering a freeze on automatic sales tax rises as suggested by the Queensland Premier. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Are reports correct in the newsletter  Black News Service  of 23 February 1976, that the Manager of the Bamyili Housing Association has arranged for all the sub-contracts for the construction of new housing at Bamyili to be let to his own Katherine-based construction company. 
Has he also, as claimed in the article, placed names of deceased persons on the payroll of the Housing Association. 
Did the Manager ban a man from Bamyili because the man refused to drive the Manager home. 
Are bricks produced at Bamyili transported to Katherine for use. 
What is the present salary of the Manager of the Bamyili Housing Association. 
Will the Minister be taking action over allegations contained in any such report. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, in conjunction with the Attorney-General's Department, currently preparing legislation to override discriminatory clauses of the Queensland Aborigines Act and the Queensland Torres Strait Islanders Act. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Minister and the Western Australian Minister for Community Welfare make a study visit to the Kimberley Region of Western Australia to investigate problems facing Aboriginal communities in that region during the period in which  Senator the  Honourable J. L. Cavanagh was the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs; if so (a) when did the visit take place, what was the itinerary, and who accompanied the two Ministers, (b) did the Australian Government and the Western Australian Government subsequently agree to take any specific policy initiatives to benefit Aboriginal communities in the Kimberleys, including the placing of additional staff in the area; if so, what decisions were taken, and which of them have been put into effect to date. 
What additional staff have been placed in the region by (a) the Australian Government, and (b) the Western Australian Government specifically to assist Aboriginal communities, and have any of these positions been affected by restrictions recently announced on public service staffing. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee formally made any specific recommendations to the Government relating to the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill 1976 currently before the Parliament; if so (a) what recommendations have been made, and (b) has the Minister responded to the recommendations and if he has, what was his response. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that no new students will be admitted to quota places at the University of Queensland in the second semester of 1976; if so (a) have any other Australian universities or colleges of advanced education placed similar restrictions on student intakes in 1976, (b) can the Minister estimate how many (i) full-time, (ii) part-time and (iii) external students will be affected by the restrictions imposed by the University of Queensland and other universities or colleges of advanced education and (c) have these restrictions resulted from any financial cut-backs imposed by the Australian Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to comments made by Judge Demack of the Family Court of Australia in  The Courier Mail,  of 21 May 1976, that the present premises of the Court in Brisbane are inadequate: if so, (a) what efforts are being made to obtain adequate accommodation for the Court in Brisbane; (b) if alternative accommodaton is not envisaged at this stage, what is being done to ensure adequate privacy for court hearings and counselling sessions; (c) is it planned to appoint another Judge to the Court in Brisbane; if so, when; and (d) is it planned to appoint additional counsellors to the Court in Brisbane; if so, how many additional counsellors are to be appointed and when are the appointments to take place. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Were funds from the Australian Government, or any assistance from Australian Government Departments, employed in the preparation of the report entitled 'Assessment of the Needs and Opportunities for Aborigines in the Kimberley' in 1971; if so, (a) what assistance was provided by the Australian Government; (b) has the report been made public and when was it made public, and if not, will the Minister table the report in the Austraiian Parliament; and (c) which recommendations of the report have been put into effect to date, and at what expense to (i) the Australian Government, and (ii) the Western Australian Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) How often is  The Navy List  published. 
What is the total cost of (a) publication, and (b) distribution of  The Navy List. 
3 ) Why is publication of  The Navy List  necessary. 
Is a similar publication produced for other sections of the Defence Force; if so, (a) what are the publications concerned, (b) how often are they published, and (c) what is the cost of publication and distribution. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Queensland Branch of the Australian Medical Association requested the National Health and Medical Research Council to ban phenacetin from compound analgesics; if so, what action has been taken on the submission to date. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is the Commonwealth Statistician arranging a conference to discuss rationalisation and development of health data collection in Australia; if so, (a) what is the exact aim of the conference, (b) when is it to be held, and (c) what is the estimated cost of the conference. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 )  What is the  'householder delivery service ' provided by Australia Post. 
What postage rates apply, and for how long has the service been provided. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Has the Government of Italy invoked regulations requiring a health certificate on the import of Australian hides; if so 
what are the regulations concerned, 
b ) how long have they been in force, 
do the regulations apply to any other country, 
did the Government of Italy advise the Australian Government why the new regulations were being invoked, and, if so, what reason was given, and 
has the Australian Government made any attempt to have the regulations revoked, and, if so, what action has been taken and what results have occurred. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Did the Treasurer refer a letter from the Shire Clerk of the Pine Rivers Shire Council dated 18 February 1976, in connection with the Sewerage Backlog Programme, to the Minister for consideration; if so, (a) did the Minister discuss with officers of his Department the Council's request that in future it be given more notice regarding the allocation of funds, (b) if the answer to (a) is in the affimative, what was the outcome of those discussions and (c) has approval been given for an extension of time in which the funds granted to the Council for 1975-76 may be expended. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services the following question, upon notice: 
In which Australian Government buildings are staff restaurants or cafeterias positioned. 
Are these enterprises managed by theDepartment of Administrative Services or are they leased to private enterprise. 
Are  the  meals and refreshments subsidised in any way. 
Are the facilities provided solely for Australian Government employees, or are members of the public entitled to use them. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Will sixty Australian radio stations be linked directly to radio stations in the United States of America through the Overseas Telecommunications Commission for an Australian-American Broadcast Weekend' from 23 July 1976 to 25 July 1976 as pan of the United States Bicentennial Celebrations; if so, is the Australian Government meeting any of the costs involved in this operation. 
If the answer to (1) is in the affirmative, what is the cost which will be borne by the Australian Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Will only 48 new apprentice technicians be employed by Telecom in 1975-76; is so, 
how many new apprentice technicians were appointed in each year since 1 970, and 
what effect will the reduction in recruitment of apprentice technicians have on 
telephone maintenance, and 
telephone installation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the reduction in Aboriginal Affairs expenditure announced by the Treasurer in his statement to the Parliament on 20 May 1976, been referred to the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee for comment and advice; if so, (a) when was the matter referred to the Committee; (b) what form did the referral take; and (c) what advice has the Committee offered on the reductions. 
If not, will the Minister be referring the matter to the Committee for advice and comment. 
asked the Minister represent  ing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Did officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs meet with  Dr Duncan  Chappell and  Dr Paul  Wilson on 12 January 1976; if so, (a) what was the purpose of the meeting; (b) who was in attendance; (c) what decisions were reached; and (d) are any follow-up meetings planned. 
asked the Minister represent  ing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Health been able to estimate the number of employees of Medibank who are likely to become redundant as a result of the alterations to Medibank announced by the Treasurer on 20 May 1976; if so, what are the estimates for each State and the Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What financial assistance has been provided by the Australian Government to organisations and individuals engaged in research on methods to combat arthritis and rheumatism. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
What financial assistance is the Australian Government providing to functions and activities organised as part of World Environment Day held on 5 June 1 976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) Do figures released by the Apprenticeship Directorate of New South Wales on 22 May 1976, indicate that the number of apprentices entering trades has fallen dramatically in the first five months of 1976. 
Do the figures also indicate that the building industry has experienced a drop of almost 60 per cent in the apprentice intake so far this year when compared with figures for the same period in 1975. 
Has the New South Wales Government officially requested the Australian Government for urgent assistance for an apprenticeship program in that State. 
Have any other State governments made similar requests. 
If the answer to (3) or (4) is in the affirmative, what action has the Australian Government taken on the request or requests. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
How many persons are currently employed in the Migration Section at Australia House in London? 
How many persons are employed on migration matters by the Australian Government in other parts of the United Kingdom? 
3 ) How many of the persons referred to in ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) are Australian citizens? 
Are the staffing arrangements for migrant recruitment by the Australian Government in the United Kingdom to be varied in the next six months; if so, what changes are to take place? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development received reports of pollution in any Australian rivers caused by polychlorinated biphenyls; if so, (a) which rivers are involved; (b) what action is being taken to ascertain the exact level and causes of the pollution of the rivers concerned; and (c) what action is being taken to reduce the level of pollution in these rivers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Is the Royal Australian Navy survey vessel, HMAS  Flinders  currently undertaking a survey of the Dampier Strait; if so; 
a ) what is the purpose of the survey 
what areas are being surveyed; and 
was the Government of Papua New Guinea informed in advance that the survey was to take place. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did officials of the Australian and Indian Governments have talks in Canberra on 24 May 1976; if so, (a) what matters were discussed, (b) who attended the meeting and (c) were any decisions reached as a result of the talks. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Depanment of Social Security organising an inter-State sports contest for officers of the Depanment to be held later this month at the Gold Coast. 
Have four Departmental officers been seconded to work full-time on organising the contest, and are any public funds to be used to subsidise their motel accommodation and other expenses. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present composition of the National Aboriginal Sports Foundation. 
What grants have been made by the National Aboriginal Sports Foundation since 1 1 November 1975. 
What is the estimated annual cost of providing administrative services to the Foundation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs received transfers within the Department or have been placed on the unattached list since 1 1 November 1975. 
What are their names, their respective designations, and the positions they formerly held. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) When is it expected that the Minister will receive the report of the inquiry into Australian broadcasting systems being conducted by officers of the Department of Post and Telecommunications. 
Does the Minister expect to receive regular progress reports from the inquiry. 
) Did the Minister actively consider including an inquiry into Australian newspaper publication in conjunction with the inquiry into broadcasting; if so, for what reason was this alternative discounted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Was a paid advertisement included with mailed copies of Australia Post's second Stamp Preview for 1976; if so, (a) was the advertisement placed by Review Publications Pty Ltd, (b) what were the circumstances which led to a firm being allowed to have its advertisement mailed with copies of Stamp Preview, and (c) what revenue did Australia Post receive for this advertisement. 
Since the issue of the second Stamp Preview for 1976, has Australia Post been approached by firms to have their advertisements included with mailed copies of Stamp Preview; if so, what was Australia Post's response. 
How many copies of the second Stamp Preview for 1 976 were mailed and what was the cost of postage. 
Is Australia Post considering any proposals to assist advertisers to be placed on its mailing lists in future, including the mailing list for Stamp Review. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) Have 105 positions in the Central Office of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations been withdrawn; if so, (a) which positions are involved, and (b) will the Minister provide specific details of the effect the withdrawal of these positions is expected to have on the functioning of the Department. 
If the answer to ( 1 ) is in the affirmative, does the Minister propose to reconstitute these positions at some time in the future, funds permitting, or is the withdrawal of the positions envisioned as permanent. 
Will any cutbacks in staffing in the three manpower divisions responsible for policy, development, and operations in industrial training adversely affect the Department's role in industrial training. 
What cost savings will be made as a result of any such cutbacks. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Has Telecom placed an order in the United States of America for two devices which can be linked to telephones and used by deaf people; if so, (a) on what principle do these machines operate, (b) what is the cost of purchase and installation, (c) to what use will the 1 100 machines be put, (d) are additional machines to be purchased and (e) has there been any unnecessary or unavoidable delay in the provision of telephone  facilities for deaf people in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
When does the Government intend commencing airport checks at Darwin, Katherine, Groote Eylandt, and Nhulunbuy, as part of the program aimed at combatting the outbreak of oriental fruit fly in the Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Why was the Fourth Annual Report for 1973-74 and the Fifth Annual Report for 1974-75, of the AACRDE, not published until 1976, and presented to the Senate until 3 June 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What is the current delay in the installation and repair of (a) private, and (b) business telephones in each State of Australia and the Northern Territory in (i) capital cities, (ii) provincial cities, and (iii) rural areas. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons living in 'rural areas' were registered as unemployed in each State of Australia and the Northern Territory for each month from April 1975 to April 1976. 
How many (a) offices and (b) staff of the Commonwealth Employment Service were there in rural areas in each State and the Northern Territory as at 1 April 1975 andI April 1976. 
Does the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations currently have any specific programs aimed at alleviating rural unemployment; if so, will the Minister provide relevant details. 
Which recommendations of the Henderson Inquiry relating to rural unemployment have so far been adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has Air Hibiscus made application to be permitted to provide connecting chaner flights from Australia to Fiji? 
Has Ansett Airlines of Australia made application to be allowed to expand to a regional role by offering charter services operating on routes from Australia to New Zealand, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, Fiji and Norfolk Island? 
Has All Nations Air Services made application to be permitted to operate a multi-million dollar air charter service between Australia and London? 
Has a decision been made in each case? If so, what was that decision? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is the Department of Transport considering instituting a third stock train service each week from Alice Springs to Adelaide to assist cattlemen in Central Australia. If so, when is it likely that a decision will be made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Guild of Air Pilots requested the Government to introduce stricter rules on drinking for Australian air pilots. If so when was the request made and by whom. 
What restrictions have been requested. 
What restrictions are currently in force and when were the restrictions last amended. 
How many breaches against the rules have there been since 1970 and what was the result of any prosecutions launched. 
Has the Minister made a decision on the latest request from the Australian Guild of Air Pilots. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many deaths from meningitis occur each year in Australia. 
Is the Minister aware of a new meningitis vaccine which has been approved for use in the United States of America? If so, has the Department of Health investigated the vaccine for possible use in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the composition of the Australian delegation to the next meeting of the Internationa! Whaling Commission to be held in London in June 1976. 
What instructions has the delegation received in relation to any discussion on the request from the United States for a moratorium on the killing of whales. 
-I present the following petition from 88 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a great concern and alarm of the removal of some Government support for St. Luke's Hospital, Garden Settlement and for other institutions providing care for the aged within Queensland. 
That the removal of grants is causing unnecessary hardship to those aged citizens of Australia who are dependent upon continued care and accommodation. 
That the removal of grants has caused unnecessary unemployment and hardship for those who were previously employed in duties caring for the aged in those centres where reduction in grants have been made. 
That the aged, and others within Australian Society who are least able to defend themselves against the arbitrary acts of Governments should be spared from these unnecessary cuts. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the government should reconsider its decision to cut the budgets of these institutions and immediately restore the grants to enable these institutions to continue their high standard of dedicated and unselfish care for the aged and infirm in the community. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Was the Minister for Education correctly reported in the University of Queensland publication  Varsity News  of 14 July 1 976 as having said on the occasion of his July visit to the University of Queensland that 'the 1976 calendar year has seen an absolute decline of 8300 students in the tertiary sector'? If the Minister was correctly reported, how was this figure of 8300 derived? 
-I present the following petition from 193 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of Australia by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That the removal of the grant of $173,000 from the Lauriston Centre for the sick aged is totally unjustified. 
That the removal of the grant will cause unnecessary hardship to those Citizens of Australia resident there. 
That the removal of the grant will cause unnecessary unemployment in the area. 
That the decision to remove the grant is a ruthless political one taken without due consideration for the lives and welfare of those citizens dependent upon the care provided at the Lauriston Centre. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the Government should reconsider its decision to cut the budget of the Centre, and immediately restore the grant to enable the Centre to continue its high standard of dedicated and unselfish care for the aged and infirm in the community. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition from 33 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a great concern and alarm of the removal of some Government support for St Luke's Hospital, Garden Settlement and for other institutions providing care for the aged within Queensland. 
That the removal of grants is causing unnecessary hardship to those aged citizens of Australia who are dependent upon continued care and accommodation. 
That the removal of grants has caused unnecessary unemployment and hardship for those who were previously employed in duties caring for the aged in those centres where reduction in grants have been made. 
That the aged, and others within Australian Society who are least able to defend themselves against the arbitrary acts of Governments should be spared from these unnecessary cuts. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the Government should reconsider its decision to cut the budgets of these institutions and immediately restore the grants to enable these institutions to continue their high standard of dedicated and unselfish care for the aged and infirm in the community. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition from 524 citizens of Queensland: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors of the State of Queensland respectfully showeth: 
That Medibank was established to bring to every Australian the opportunity to attend the doctor of his or her own choice and to provide hospital insurance to all Australian's irrespective of their means: 
That Medibank provides substantial financial assistance to the free hospital system in Queensland which has never been given under any previous government; 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should ensure that the agreements entered into between the Commonwealth and the State of Queensland should be maintained and that Medibank should not be so altered either in cost or complexity so that it may no longer be available to all people of Australia as a universal health insurance scheme. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition from 455 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That reduction of the age limit from six years to eighteen months for patients eligible to receive cows' milk substitutes as a pharmaceutical benefit under the schedules of the National Health Act will cause serious financial hardship to many families; 
That the Government 's action is responsible for a severe increase in the cost of cows' milk substitutes which penalise parents of children aged eighteen months and over who have a medical need for these substitutes. 
That there is an urgent, humane need to restore cows' milk substitutes to children up to six years of age to the schedule of pharmaceutical benefits. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that cows' milk substitutes be restored to the schedule of pharmaceutical benefits for children up to the age of six years as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
Has the Swedish Government had discussions with officials of the Australian Government since 1 1 November 1975, concerning the possible purchase by Sweden of (a) uranium, (b) coal, and (c) nickel from Queensland; if so, when did the discussions take place, who was involved in them, and what was the outcome of the talks. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Administrative Services. Is it a fact that research assistants employed on the personal staff of all Ministers in the present Government have recently been granted full travelling rights throughout Australia at government expense? If so, was the decision to allow research assistants to travel at government expense on their Ministers' official business taken as a result of an admission by the Government that its original arrangements for ministerial staffing were inadequate, or is it a prelude to the granting of full travel rights to all research assistants employed by members of Parliament? 
asked the Minister represent ing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did an interdepartmental committee of officials from the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, the Department of Transport, Qantas Airways Limited, and the security services, report to the Government in 1974 on the advisability of the Australian Prime Minister travelling on normal commercial aircraft services when overseas. If so, did that Committee recommend in the strongest possible terms that it would be unwise on security grounds for an Australian Prime Minister to travel in any other way than by special Qantas chaner flight. 
If the answer to (1) is in the affirmative, on what grounds did the Prime Minister overrule the interdepartmental committee's recommendations when deciding to travel by commercial aircraft to New Zealand earlier this year. 
3 ) Does the Prime Minister intend travelling on commercial aircraft during his forthcoming visits to Japan and the People 's Republic of China. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Treasurer's attention been drawn to a request by the  President  of the Real Estate Institute of Queensland,  Mr Blocksidge  in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail,  of 12 May 1976, that the Reserve Bank reconsider its statutory reserve deposits in the light of Queensland circumstances. If so, (a) has the Treasury investigated this proposal, and (b) does Queensland warrant special consideration because of local conditions in this regard. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Education been drawn to a letter which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  this morning from Professor Ronald Goldman, acting Dean of the La Trobe University School of Education, relating to the supply of teachers for Australian schools? If so, does the Minister agree with Professor' Goldman's criticism that the interim report of the study group investigating the supply and demand for teachers in Australia in the next 10 years is inadequate and that its prediction of a surplus of teachers cannot be regarded as proved on what Professor Goldman describes as thin, tentative and inadequate evidence? Will the Minister dispel Professor Goldman's fears that the interim report will be used as an excuse by the Government to cut back funds for teacher education? Finally, will the Minister advise whether his department is considering the establishment of an Australia-wide teaching service, with common salary scales and portability of pensions to enable teachers easily to transfer within Australia, as suggested in Professor Goldman's letter? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the vaccine against measles readily available in Australia at the present time. 
How effective does the Department of Health consider the vaccine to be. 
What percentage of Australia's children were vaccinated against measles in each year since 1 970. 
Has the Department of Health issued any recommendations to parents relating to the advisability of having their children vaccinated against measles. 
What is the cost of immunisation to the patient. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the current composition of Australian diplomatic staff stationed in Uganda? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) When was Cambridge Credit Corporation placed in receivership. 
What was the last date on which Cambridge Credit accepted funds for purchase of debentures. 
Is it possible to buy and sell Cambridge Credit debentures whilst the Corporation is in receivership. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What has been the estimated cost to date of the implementation of the Superphosphate Bounty since its re-introduction by the present Federal Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
How many applications have been received from South African citizens for residence in Australia for each month since January 1975, and how many of these applications have been approved. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Has the Minister received a reply to the letter he wrote to  Dr Robert  Endean, mentioned in the Minister's reply to a Question Without Notice appearing on page 475 of the Senate Hansard of 1 6 March 1 976, relating to  Dr Endean  's criticism of the report on the crown of thorns starfish; if so, (a) what action does the Minister intend taking with regard to the views expressed in  Dr Endean  's reply and (b) what action has the Minister taken with relation to  Dr Endean  's public call, reported in the Courier Mail of 7 July 1976, for the report to be rejected. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has the Government considered the recommendations contained in the Third Main Report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty entitled 'Social/Medical Aspects of Poverty in Australia' by the Reverend George S. Martin; if so, which recommendations has the Government accepted in full, or in part, and which has it rejected or not acted upon. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons have so far been prosecuted for offences under the Health Insurance Act relating to the lodgment of false Medibank claims. 
2 ) How many of these prosecutions have been successful. 
I present the following petition from 106 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and the Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia do humbly submit: 
That the Government should withdraw its proposed changes to Medibank. 
The United Nations has declared this decade ( 1975-85) as the Decade of Action for the needs of women. It has also declared the health of all people is a basic human right. 
Believing that women have a major need for adequate, low-cost health care, the undersigned declare their wholehearted opposition to the changes intended by the present Government to Medibank, and affirm that any changes should be designed to further liberalise the original scheme, not to weaken it. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Science, relates to a statement made by  Dr P.  H. Springell of the Capricorn Conservation Council in a paper presented to the national conference of the Australian Institute of Agricultural Science. In the  Age  newspaper of 28 August  Dr Springell  was stated to have said that fertilisers and insecticides used in agriculture would eventually cause serious pollution of the Great Barrier Reef. Following the alert given by  Dr Springell,  especially with regard to phosphatic and nitrogenic fertilisers, what action does the Minister or his Department intend to take? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt.  This evening I intend to direct most of my comments to education, because I believe that this is an area which has been neglected in the Budget. I intend to show how it has been neglected. Despite widespread comments to the contrary and protests by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  there has been a great deal of condemnation of certain aspects of the Budget with relation to education. In fact I intend to quote from publications of the 4 education commissions which contain criticisms of the guidelines which form part of the Budget. Firstly I quote what the Schools Commission said in its report for the 1977-79 triennium. The Commission spoke about the increase in funds that had been made available to it but pointed out that the increase in funds was not sufficient. In part the Schools Commission said: 
The 2 per cent real growth in funds for 1977 must be seen in relation to the fact that enrolments in the States are estimated to grow by 1.1 1 per cent. It is important to realise that the guidelines cannot be met in full; the objectives of maintaining existing standards while also undertaking other initiatives, though modest and directed towards immediate needs, are too ambitious within the funds allocated. 
Let us look at what the Universities Commission said in its report for the same triennium. The Commission spoke about the projected deterioration of standards in Australian universities. In speaking on this subject it said: 
The Australian universities are moving from an environment of steady growth in student numbers to one in which there will be no growth. Inherent in a situation of no growth are problems which, if not faced, must had to deterioration in the standards of teaching and research in Australian universities. 
It is interesting to note that recently some of the vice-chancellors of the various universities in Australia have pointed out that there will be a deterioration of standards in universities of Australia. This is something which must be decried. The same Commission also mentions the unavoidable increases which universities are facing. It said: 
The effect of the unavoidable increases in costs is to reduce the real operating resources per student which would otherwise have been available. This reduction, together with the increases in student numbers which are still working thenway through the system, means that real operating resources per student will, by 1979, be some 3 per cent below those in 1975. 
It is no wonder that there will be a deterioration of standards in the universities throughout Australia. Yet another commission had something to say about the guidelines with which it was presented by this Government. The Commission on Advanced Education in its report for the same triennium, 1977-79, said: 
The present guidelines were framed within the Government's policy of restraint in public expenditure. However, it is our view that Governments should be fully and publicly informed of needs before such decisions are taken. This Commission has been charged with the responsibility of providing advice on the needs of advanced education. The Commission can best give advice if it is able to give proper consideration to detailed submissions put to it. In 1976 we were unable to follow this procedure. 
Finally, I turn to the fourth commission report to which I referred earlier. The Technical and Further Education Commission report for the same triennium mentioned that increased enrolments are not catered for by the projected growth rates in Commonwealth grants. The Commission said: 
A triennial program based on the growth rates for Commonwealth grants of 5 per cent for 1978 and 1979 proposed in the present guidelines would fail to take account of increased enrolments during the triennium. 
These remarks were made by the 4 education commissions which had to report to the Government. Before making any further comments about what has been done in the Budget to education throughout Australia, I wish to make some comments about statements which have been made by the Minister for Education because I believe that he has been totally misleading. It is time that these misleading statements were brought to the attention of the Australian people. I refer to a publication called  University News  which is published by the Queensland University. In its issue dated 14 July it reported the Minister as saying:  the Minister said that when he inherited the portfolio 7 months ago, education spending had been cut already by $ 105m by the previous Government. 
The Minister has been saying this consistently. Indeed, as recently as 24 August he issued a Press statement in which he made a similar statement. He said: 
It was the Whitlam Government which in August 1 975 cut the 4 education commission budgets by $ 105m for the calendar year 1 976 compared with 1975 . . . 
The cut to which the Minister referred was not really a cut as such. It was a shortfall between the 1976 component of the 1976-78 triennial funding recommendations made by the various education commissions and the 1976 interim year allocation for education subsequently announced in the 1975 Budget. The Minister, in his statement about cuts of $105m by the previous Government, is not giving the full details. Incidentally, in 1975-76 there was a real increase in expenditure on education over that of 1 974-75. 1 shall go a little further about the Minister's comments relating to cuts in education. 
Sitting suspended from  5.45  to  8  p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was mid-way through an argument, so with your concurrence,  Mr Deputy President,  I shall backtrack a little on what I was saying to make the argument stand out properly. I was speaking about some comments which had been made by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and was going to speak on 2 comments in particular. I referred firstly to the statement, which he has made consistently, that the previous Government cut $105m from the education vote. I pointed out that he had made the statement in a number of places but that the cut was not really a cut in the normal sense but was a shortfall between the 1976 component of the 1976-78 trienniel funding recommendations made by the 4 education commissions and the 1976 interim year allocation for education subsequently announced at 
Budget time in August 1975. If the Minister wants to use this argument he should use it with the argument for current spending by the Government. 
It is very difficult to take each of the commissions' reports and to determine how much was recommended for the various years, except for the Schools Commission which actually sets out what it recommends for 1 976, 1 977 and 1978 in its report for the triennium 1976-78. It is a little more difficult to determine how much was recommended by the other commissions because they do not set out the actual recommendations year by year. The grant recommended for 1977 in the Schools Commission report for the triennium 1976-78 was $690m in December 1974 prices. The Government grant for education in 1977, which has been allocated in this Budget, is $508m in December 1975 prices. So if the same sort of argument is used as the Minister for Education uses with regard to the cutting of expenditure by the previous Government there is a shortfall of about $200m for just one Commission, the Schools Commission. 
I invite the Minister for Education in future, if he makes claims similar to his previous claim that education spending was cut by $ 105 m by the previous Government when he took over the education portfolio, to go one step further and say: 'But we have done better than that: In just one Commission, the Schools Commission, we have cut education expenditure by $200m'. If he is going to use that argument in respect of what the previous Government did he should follow it up and use it for what this Government is doing. He would not do so because it would paint the Government in a very bad light. I have used the figures for just one commission in this illustration but if we were to take all 4 commissions into account the cut, in the words of the Minister, would be even greater still. 
I refer also to claims that the Minister has made about student numbers. On 18 August I asked of the Minister for Education in this place a question about his claim that there were fewer students at tertiary institutions this year than there were last year. I asked: 
Was the Minister for Education correctly reported in the University of Queensland publication  Varsity News  of 14 July 1976 as having said on the occasion of his July visit to the University of Queensland that 'the 1976 calendar year has seen an absolute decline of 8300 students in the tertiary sector'? If the Minister was correctly reported, how was this figure of 8300 derived? 
The Minister replied, in effect, that he had been correctly reported and said, in part:  . . from evidence given to the Department of Education through the various commissions by the institutions concerned, the effect would be that the number of first year enrolment places in both universities and colleges for the calendar year 1 976 would be some 8300 fewer than in 1 975. 
The figures just do not back up the Minister's argument. The Minister may be able to provide some figures to show that his argument is correct but I doubt it. Six days later, after asking that question, I received some information from the Parliamentary Library which showed that in 1975 26 213 students commenced courses at universities. In 1976 some preliminary figures showed that 26 088 students commenced courses at universities. In other words, there was a difference of 125 students, using those preliminary figures for 1976. There were 125 fewer students in 1976 than in 1975. 
For colleges of advanced education 26 536 students enrolled for the first time in 1975. But on 24 August, 6 days after the Minister gave me an answer to my question, the Parliamentary Library said that the figures for first year enrolments for colleges of advanced education for 1976 were not yet available. If they were available there would have to have been a drop of over 8000 students in colleges of advanced education; in other words, going from 26000 students down to about 16 000 students. The figures just do not back up the Minister's argument, which seems to suggest that the statement that there were 8300 fewer students this year than last year is completely erroneous. If the Minister is giving figures like these which cannot be backed up, one tends to suspect other figures that he may give as well. I invite him to give correct figures and to give correct figures on what the Budget has done for education this year. 
I move on now to an aspect of the Budget which was first mentioned on 20 May when the Government said that it was going to reintroduce tuition fees for students studying for second and higher degrees. When this was mentioned before this chamber I was somewhat amazed at the argument which was used in favour of the reintroduction of tuition fees for certain students. It is worthwhile repeating what the Minister for Education said at the time. On 20 May he stated: 
From the beginning of 1977 the Government has decided to reintroduce tuition fees for students taking second and higher degrees apart from recognised combined courses which include, for example Arts/Law, and first degrees plus post-graduate professional diplomas. 
The reason for this was then given: 
The Government considers that students should reasonably be asked to pay tuition fees for courses taken after they have obtained their full basic qualifications. We will need to discuss the application of this decision with the States and the institutions. 
I ask: What are full basic qualifications for any student? An arbitrary line could be drawn anywhere. If this has happened we could find that next we will be told that the full basic qualification is matriculation and that students therefore will have to pay fees after having this basic qualification. We will have returned to where we were before the Labor Government came to power and abolished fees at universities and colleges of advanced education. There is no reason for us to say that a full basic qualification is a degree. Think of what this must do to the research scientists in this country. But what happened? We never know what this Government will do. In the Budget Speech, referring to an investigation the Government was to have, it was stated: 
The investigation will also cover the question of the reintroduction of tertiary education fees for those classes of students mentioned in my statement of 20 May. 
What does this mean? Does it mean that the Government is now having second thoughts about re-introducing fees for certain students at universities? I hope it is. I will point out the sorts of things that the Government should be looking at if it is having second thoughts, because this will create a lot of hardship for many students. It is worthwhile noting that the homework had not been done with regard to this question. The earlier statement mentioned not only post graduate qualifications but also second degrees. In answer to a question in the House of Representatives only recently it was stated that the Minister for Education had said that statistics on the total number of persons enrolled for second degree courses in Australia were not available. In other words, the homework had not been done properly. 
In pointing out some of the things the Government should consider if it is having an investigation into whether these fees should be reintroduced I will talk particularly about postgraduate courses. Universities in Australia offer a wide variety of opportunities for students to undertake further study beyond their bachelors degrees. Amongst these are research opportunities to study for a Ph.D. or a masters degree, or to study by course work for a masters degree. Of course, one may pursue other higher degrees but these are the most common. There has been a major expansion in opportunities for students to undertake these courses. This is illustrated by the figures for the last 10 years. In 1965 there were, in round figures, 6000 students taking higher degrees in Australian universities. This was 7.4 per cent of students as a total proportion of all students. Ten years later, in 1975, this figure had grown to 16 000 and the proportion of students taking higher degrees as a proportion of all students had grown from 7.4 per cent to 1 1. 1 per cent. It is often said that students taking higher degrees have some sort of financial assistance and, therefore, any re-introduction of fees will not affect them. Even for those students who have some financial assistance there is a certain amount of disquiet. Some of them have said to me that they do not know whether next year their scholarships will cover the fees that may be reintroduced. Beyond that, it is pertinent to point out that many students who are undertaking post-graduate courses do not have financial assistance. 
The latest figures I have been able to obtain on the sources of finance for full-time higher degree research students were those for 1974. There were 4900 students in this category. Of these 39.9 per cent had an Australian Government award. Some people had other awards such as university awards, overseas awards and other government awards, but the pertinent figure for my argument is that the proportion of students not receiving any awards was 27.1 per cent. Therefore, in round figures, one out of every four people who were pursuing higher research degrees in 1 974 in a university did not have any award at all. These people will be hard hit if fees are re-introduced. In fact many of them would not be able to continue. Whilst not underestimating the hardship that will be placed on full-time students, I believe that those who will be most affected if fees are re-introduced for higher degrees will be the part-time students. It is interesting to note that the proportion of higher degree students who are part-time has been increasing in recent years. In 1968 the proportion of full-time students as a total of the students undertaking research degrees in Australian universities was 5 1 per cent. By 1975 the role was reversed in that the proportion of part-time students was 5 1 per cent and the proportion of full-time students was less than half of the total number. 
I illustrate how part-time students will be affected by referring to some figures from the university at which  1  studied and, in particular, the department in which I studied. It is not unusual for teachers to pursue part-time studies. They do this so that they may obtain better qualifications, become more professionally qualified and thus be able to serve the country much better. In the department of Education at the University of Queensland there are, at the moment, a total of 140 part-time post-graduate students. In 1976, of a total of 24 post-graduate students in the Department of Education at the 
University of Queensland, exactly half are parttime. Of these 24 students doing a Ph.D., twelve are part time. Of 16 students pursuing a master of education degree, thirteen are part-time. In other words, almost all of them are part-time. The same situation holds with master of education and administration degrees. Of a total of twenty-six, twenty-four are part-time. There are 105 students undertaking master of educational studies and ninty-one of these are part dme. The majority of these people- I would expect almost all of them- would be teachers who work during the day and go to university in the evening to better their qualifications by undertaking a higher degree. There are 2 other universities in the State which I represent. At the James Cook University half of the masters degree students are part time and the same situation applies for Ph.D. students. At the Griffith University more than half the post-graduate students are part time. Of IS students doing a Ph.D., ten are part time. There are 27 course work master students, all of whom are part time and of 13 research master students, nine are part time. I am illustrating that there is a large number of part time students in universities throughout Australia who are undertaking research degrees or higher degrees such as course work masters. 
These people will be hard hit if fees are introduced for courses beyond the bachelors degree. How hard hit will they be? It is difficult to say because there have been no fees for some time and it is difficult to say what the new fees will be. Fees for post-graduate courses vary considerably from university to university, but the University of Queensland calendar for 1973 stated that the full-time fees for masters degree and doctoral students was $293 per semester. In other words, the fees were almost $600 per year. It would not be difficult to suggest- indeed, it would not be difficult to believe- that if the fee was $600 in 1 973 it could quite well be $ 1 ,000 in 1977. Part time masters degree students paid $126 per semester in 1973, in other words about $250 a year, and part time Ph.D. students paid slightly more. The fees, if reintroduced, will be much higher than that and part time students will think very seriously about continuing thenstudies. In fact I believe many will not continue because, after all, they undergo great sacrifices to continue studies while working. 
It will be not only the students or potential students who will lose by not undertaking a higher degree as they normally would have done; also it will be the community as a whole. Some of the teachers to whom I was referring will not undertake higher studies and therefore will not be able to contribute as much to society as they otherwise would be able to do. These are the sorts of things that I hope the Government will look at if it is undertaking an investigation into the reintroduction of fees for second degrees and post-graduate qualifications. I believe their reintroduction will be a backward step. It would be a tremendous step forward if the Government said: 'No, our original decision on 20 May when we announced this was wrong. We have decided to continue to have free university education, without fee, as introduced by the previous Government'. 
I turn now to another aspect dealt with in the Budget. In 1977 the number of post-graduate awards is to be cut by one hundred. I believe that the inability to encourage higher studies will make Australia all the poorer. By cutting the number of post-graduate awards, obviously we will cut the number of people undertaking postgraduate studies. I see this as an attempt to bring Australia back to the status of a second rate nation so far as intellectual effort and output are concerned. The number of post-graduate awards in 1977 is to be cut by one hundred and all for a saving of $350,000 in a full year. I want to outline something that the Minister for Education has said on this subject. On 1 9 August he said: 
. until very recently- 2 years ago- the number of post-graduate scholarships was at the level that we have proposed for this year as a special year to hold them. So that the cutback, while significant, is not in proportion major. 
Indeed, the Minister said that the number of post-graduate scholarships was the same as it was 2 years ago. That is not quite correct. This year 900 Commonwealth post-graduate awards were provided. In 1975 there were 900. In 1977 the number is to be dropped to 800. In 1974 there were 892 -almost 900-but in 1971, 1972 and 1 973 there were 800. The Government has not only dropped the number of post-graduate awards to the level in 1973; it has dropped it to the level of 5 years ago, in 1971. 1 wonder how many students who will not be able to carry on beyond their honours degree will consider that the cutback 'is not in proportion major'? Next year there will be 100 fewer post-graduate awards than there were this year. 
Finally I want to make some comment about the allowances under the tertiary education assistance scheme. There has been widespread lobbying for increases in this scheme. In fact there have been great demonstrations by students in support of increased allowances. In the State I represent some students faced ugly scenes when they demonstrated and were confronted by over zealous police officers. Despite this lobbying no effort has been made by the Government to provide any relief. The Government knew there was a need for increased allowances, yet this statement was made in the Budget Speech: 
We have therefore initiated an urgent investigation into the adequacy of existing rates of benefit and the possible rationalisation of the schemes. 
I wonder what that means, and why an urgent investigation now? Why was there not an urgent investigation some time ago so that students who are finding it very difficult to continue would have some relief now rather than, perhaps, next year? I want to refer to some of the figures which indicate how much money is to be provided for student assistance next year. In 1975-76, for universities, $6 1.7m was allocated for student assistance. This was an increase in real terms of 14.7 per cent over the figure for 1974-75. For 1976-77 there has been an increase to $61. 8m. In other words, an increase of $100,000. Whatever method one uses to try to convert 1 976-77 figures to those for 1975-76, it would indicate a real cut in university student assistance provided for in this Budget. 
A similar situation holds for colleges of advanced education. Whilst from 1974-75 to 1975-76 there was an increase of 35 per cent in real terms, from 1975-76 to 1976-77 the increase is from $43. 8m to $46m. The increase is $2. 3m. If one converts the comparable figures for 1975-76 and 1976-77 one would see that again there is a real cut in spending. Also there is a cut in student assistance for technical education. In the field of technical education $20.2m was allotted last year and $20.2m has been allotted this year. One wonders what the Government actually intends to do. It seems that there is to be a cut in real money terms, in the money available for students for their assistance scheme. However it is interesting to speculate on what the Government may do. On 24 August the Minister for Education made this announcement in a Press statement: 
The Federal Government does not intend to substitute a system of student loans to replace the present living allowances of students. 
That seemed fairly clear until I read further down where he said: 
Any system of student loans which the Government may introduce in the future will be a supplement to and not a replacement for student allowances. 
It is interesting to look beyond comments made by Ministers in this Parliament and to look at comments made by people sitting on the Government side here and in other places. Let us consider this statement about student loans. It was made by  Senator Baume  and it appeared in the  AMA Gazette  on 5 August. At the outset he quite rightly said: 
Some medical students who take a science degree will have to pay fees for their second degree (that is medical) course. 
They will, if fees for second and higher degrees are introduced. He spoke about student loans and said, in part: 
Government subvention by way of fee payments and allowances is not the only way that this desirable social goal can be obtained. 
In the United States loans are regularly made available to students . . . These are repaid in various ways after graduation. 
The one which attracts me is the repayment of a fixed percentage of salary for a number of years determined by the size of the loan. Thus high income earners would repay more and low income earners less after graduation . . . 
I hope we can develop better loans systems to remove financial barriers to the entry of students into medicine while retaining some responsibility for the repayment of all such loans. 
I wonder whether it is the Government's intention to keep down the amount that will be provided for student assistance and to supplement that assistance by way of loans. The Government would be well advised to provide proper assistance to students as soon as it can so that they do not have a financial burden and can study knowing that they are financially secure. Tonight I have mentioned quite a number of aspects in which I believe this Budget is deficient in the field of education. Education is an investment in the future. Short cuts at this stage will have far reaching consequences in the years ahead. The Government would be well advised to make education one of its major priorities. 
It is not my practice to speak on matters which are the responsibility of a State government. This evening, however, I intend to do so. I have been prompted to do so because I believe that due to sheer dogmatism the Queensland Government is denying some of its scientists the opportunity to profit professionally from knowledge which is available in another country. It is also denying people associated with the agricultural industry in Queensland the opportunity to profit from this knowledge because the scientists to whom I refer could channel any information gleaned from overseas back to Queensland agriculturists. 
As a senator for Queensland, therefore, I have considered it necessary to outline the relevant facts to this chamber. Early in 1975 a bilateral agreement on scientific and technical cooperation between the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Australia was signed. One of the areas involved in the agreement was plant industry, including work on soils and fertilisers. In June 1975 an expert committee of 4 distinguished senior Australian scientists visited the USSR. The purpose of their visit was to survey agricultural research there and to make recommendations on fields of interests where Australian scientists would most profit from their Soviet counterparts. The committee consisted of  Dr L.  T. Evans, Chief of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation Division of Plant Industry-  Dr Evans  was the  Chairman  of the committee-  Dr A.  Martin, Chief of the Division of Soils in CSIRO, Professor F. Milthorpe of the Macquarie University, and  Mr N.  Halse from the Western Australian Department of Agriculture. 
The U.S.S.R., despite popular belief to the contrary, is a large scale agricultural producer. To illustrate this fact, I quote 2 paragraphs from an article which  Dr Evans  wrote on returning from his June 1975 visit to the USSR.  Dr Evans'  article appeared in the September 1975 issue of  The Journal of the Australian institute of Agricultural Science.  The 2 paragraphs read: 
The USSR produces about one-quarter of the world's wheat, 2-3 times more than the U.S.A. amd 8-12 times more than Australia. Although their production of wheat represents almost 0.4 tonnes per person, they need to import more. Similarly, although they produce more sugar than any other country, equivalent to about 40 kg per person, they still need to import more from Cuba. Potato production in Russia is more than two orders of magnitude greater than ours, but three-quarters of this is used for animal feed. Even so, their dietary intake is several times higher than that in Australia. Many Russians still enjoy potatoes three times a day, as their figures attest At times the difference in magnitude of production was embarrassing. They produce about 70 times more cotton than we do, and the scale of their research on cotton is proportionally even greater, yet they showed genuine interest in cotton research in Australia. Their production of sunflower seed is more than 200 times greater than ours, and even lupins- a crop to which Australian research has made a major contribution- are grown over a far greater area in the USSR than here. Only in sheep numbers do we surpass them. 
Thus one may recognise that there certainly are opportunities for Australian agricultural scientists to learn from the experiences of their counterparts in the USSR. I am informed that subsequent to the expert committee's visit to the USSR at least 2 scientists from the Queensland Department of Primary Industries were invited by representatives of the Evans committee to participate in the exchange program and visit the USSR in 1976. 
One scientist in the Entomology Branch was invited to visit the USSR to study the biological control of insect pests in cotton. The head of the Entomology Branch is reliably reported as having lobbied hard to succeed in having one of his officers included in this area, since it is of great concern in the Queensland cotton industry. As well, the Russians are considered to be very advanced in this field. Chemical control of insects in cotton is expensive and increasingly ineffective as insects develop resistance. There are sound environmental arguments for biological rather than chemical control of insects. I believe that the Entomology Branch Director in the Queensland Department of Primary Industries actually visited the USSR in 1975 and was very impressed with Russian advances in using parasitic wasps to control certain grubs in cotton. Another scientist in the Agriculture Branch was invited to visit the USSR to study the breeding of cotton. On reading  Dr Evans'  article which I mentioned earlier, it would seem likely that the Soviets have a lot to offer us in this aspect of agriculture. Both scientists agreed to participate pending Departmental approval. 
Under the agreement between Australia and the USSR, the fares to and from the Soviet Union would be paid by the Australian Government, through the Department of Foreign Affairs, and accommodation and expenses in the USSR would be met by the Soviet Government. The salary of participating officers would continue to be met by their employers. In the case which I am outlining, this of course would be the Queensland State Government. Following normal procedure, application was made on behalf of the 2 scientists for permission to participate. The application of the scientists in the Entomology Branch was submitted first. I am informed that permission was refused at Cabinet level. Departmental officers were subsequently informed that by Cabinet directive no Queensland State Government employee was to participate in the Australia-USSR cultural and scientific exchange program. No official reason was given. 
It was reported, however, that National Party Ministers considered that the USSR had nothing to offer Australia and that the exchange was a front whereby the Soviets would 'bleed our technology'. These sentiments are certainly not those of the scientists involved. Nor are they those of primary industry leaders in the State of Queensland. For example, the Queensland Graingrowers Association has either partially or wholly funded several people on trips to the USSR to study Soviet agriculture. One Queensland Graingrowers Association State councillor,  Mr Fred  From, a farmer of Buaraba, toured Russia last year. In 1974,  Mr Owen  Duncan, a Queensland Graingrowers Association executive officer, visited Romania and prime sunflower areas in the USSR. It is worth noting that the position offered to the scientist to whom I referred in the Entomology Branch has since been taken by a scientist from the Western Australian Department of Agriculture. 
It disturbs me that the myopic attitude of the Queensland State Government is denying Queensland Department of Primary Industries scientists access to useful USSR technology in areas where the USSR is, according to the claims of the highly qualified Evans Committee, ahead of ours. The Queensland Department of Primary Industries scientists are understandably upset since they are being deprived of professional contacts available to their colleagues in the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, in the universities and in other State Departments of Agriculture. Indeed, Queensland agriculture has nothing to gain and everything to lose from the Queensland Government's peculiar stand. It is to be hoped that, if similar decisions have to be made by the Queensland State Cabinet in the future, wiser counsel will then prevail. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
What actions have been taken to date to implement the recommendations of the report of the Committee of Inquiry on Museums and National Collections. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Will the United States nuclear powered aircraft carrier BIG E visit Australia later this year? If so (a) when will the carrier visit Australia; (b) why is the visit necessary; and (c) what is the expected itinerary for the carrier's stay in Australian waters? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement in the  Canberra Times  dated 13 July 1976, by the Senior Medical Officer of the Central Australian Aborigines Congress,  Dr Trevor  Cutter, that three government Health Departments have failed to recruit a medical practitioner to establish a community health service for the Pitjantjatjara Aboriginal tribe in central Australia. 
If the answer to ( 1 ) is in the affirmative, (a) has the Australian Department of Health been involved in the recruitment, and why has it not been possible to locate a suitable medical practitioner; (b) what health facilities are currently available to the Pitjantjatjara people; (c) is  Dr Cutter  justified in saying, as quoted in the  Canberra Times  on 13 July, that the area 'had very poor health services'; and (d) what proposals, if any, does the Minister have to upgrade health services in the area concerned. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the submission to the Adiminstrative Review Committee from the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia, which claims that understaffing and inadequate industry experience among key personnel in the Department of Industry and Commerce are preventing the Department from adequately meeting its objectives? If so, is the Minister aware of the difficulties presented by the situation outlined in the submission concerned, and has he put in train any methods to overcome these difficulties? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Under what conditions may an authorisation be given to a group employer to issue a group certificate to an employee at a later time than outlined in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1975 section 221f. (5) (b) and (c). 
Are the provisions of these sections binding on State Governments. 
Did Brisbane Sanitation Pty Ltd obtain an extension of time to issue group certificates for the 1975-76 financial year? If so, what extension or extensions were granted and on what grounds were such extension or extensions granted. 
-I present the following petition from 380 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the.  President  and the Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia do humbly submit: 
That the Government should withdraw its proposed changes to Medibank. 
The United Nations has declared this decade ( 1 975-85 ) as the Decade of Action for the needs of women. It has also declared the health of all people is a basic human right. 
Believing that women have a major need for adequate, low-cost health care, the undersigned declare their wholehearted opposition to the changes intended by the present Government to Medibank, and affirm that any changes should be designed to further liberalise the original scheme, not to weaken it. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition from 48 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors of the State of Queensland respectfully showeth: 
That Medibank was established to bring to every Australian the opportunity to attend the doctor of his or her own choice and to provide hospital insurance to all Australians irrespective of their means. 
That Medibank provides substantial financial assistance to the free hospital system in Queensland which has never been given under any previous government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should ensure that the agreements entered into between the Commonwealth and State of Queensland should be maintained and that Medibank should not be so altered either in cost or complexity so that it may no longer be available to all people of Australia as a universal health insurance scheme. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition from 1 1 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That reduction of the age limit from six years to eighteen months for patients eligible to receive cows' milk substitutes as a Pharmaceutical benefit under the schedules of the National Health Act will cause serious financial hardship to many families; 
That the Government 's action is responsible for a severe increase in the cost of cows' milk substitutes which penalise parents of children aged eighteen months and over who have a medical need for these substitutes. 
That there is an urgent, humane need to restore cows' milk substitutes to children up to six years of age to the schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that cows' milk substitutes be restored to the Schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits for children up to the age of six years as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. The Minister may recall stating in the Senate on 25 May, in reply to a question from  Senator Gietzelt,  that the federal body of the Local Government Association had strongly applauded the new federalism policies of the Fraser Government without qualification. In the light of this statement and the often reported claims by the Prime Minister that local government would be better off under a Liberal government, how does the Minister explain the comment by the  President  of the Local Government Association of Queensland,  Mr F.  A. Rogers, to the annual conference of that organisation in Cairns on 1 September when he said: 
Local government is facing a worse financial situation under the Fraser Government 's ' new federalism ' policies. 
Was  Mr Rogers  speaking without full knowledge of the facts or is it that now the 1976-77 Budget has been brought down the Local Government Association of Queensland and other similar bodies realise that they have been led up the garden path by  Mr Fraser  and his colleagues? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
What action has the Minister's Department taken to date relating to consideration of a voucher system designed to allow low-income earners to rent or buy private homes rather than rely on Stale housing commission assistance, as outlined in the Brisbane  Telegraph  dated 25 June 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) During which period in July 1976 did the Minister visit Fraser Island. 
2 ) Who accompanied the Minister and which areas of the Island did the party visit. 
With which groups und individuals did the Minister and his party Iia ve formal meetings.  &lt;A)  What action, if any. has the Minister taken since his return from 'Fraser Island with respect to the sand mining, forestry operations and associated aspects on the Island. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the function of Field Officers employed by the Department of Social Security. 
What is the Field Office establishment for each State as at 30 June 1971 to 1976. 
If there has been a reduction since 1 1 November 1975. in the number of Field Officers employed by the Department, (a) what is the reason for the reduction, and (b) what effect has the reduction had on (i) the work of the Department, and (ii) the workload of the remaining Field Officers. 
-I present the following petition from 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a great concern and alarm of the removal of some Government support for St Luke's Hospital, Garden Settlement and for other institutions providing care for the aged within Queensland. 
That the removal of grants is causing unnecessary hardship to those aged citizens of Australia who are dependent upon continued care and accommodation. 
That the removal of grants has caused unnecessary unemployment and hardship for those who were previously employed in duties caring for the aged in those centres where reduction in grants have been made. 
That the aged, and others within Australian Society who are least able to defend themselves against the arbitrary acts of Governments should be spared from these unnecessary cuts. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the government should reconsider its decision to cut the budgets of these institutions and immediately restore the grants to enable these institutions to continue their high standard of dedicated and unselfish care for the aged and infirm in the community. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to statements by Professor E. Saint, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Queensland, in the Courier Mail of 20 May 1976, that insufficient funds are being spent on mental health services in Australia; if so, (a) what financial assistance has the Australian Government provided for mental health programmes since 1 July 1970, (b) what additional funds are planned for injection into mental health programmes for the remainder of this financial year; and (c) is the Department of Health in general agreement with Professor Saint's statement that spending on mental health should be doubled or trebled, given the availability of funds in the Government's national priorities. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and relates to the recent raid by Queensland State Police and federal narcotics agents on a small community at Cedar Bay in North Queensland in which it has been alleged that property was destroyed, personal possessions of the inhabitants of Cedar Bay burnt and that the residents were terrorised by armed government agents. In the light of the very deep concern being expressed by civil liberty groups throughout the community about certain aspects of the raid, will the Minister advise the Senate of the extent of Commonwealth involvement in the raid, including the use of HMAS  Bayonet,  and on whose instructions the federal agents were acting? Has an inquiry taken place following the statement made by Senate Keeffe in the Senate last Tuesday night and by others in the community and, if so, does the Federal Government intend taking action against any of its personnel who were involved in that raid? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Was a submarine standing off Townsville during the recent visit of the Governor-General to that city? If so, (a) what are the details of the submarine concerned, (b) at whose instigation was the submarine dispatched to Townsville; and (c) for what reason was the submarine required in the area concerned. 
I present the following petition from 1 6 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
. That there is a great concern and alarm of the removal of some government support for St Luke's Hospital, Garden Settlement and for other institutions providing care for the aged within Queensland. 
That the removal of grants is causing unnecessary hardship to those aged citizens of Australia who are dependent upon continued care and accommodation. 
That the removal of grants has caused unnecessary unemployment and hardship for those who were previously employed in duties caring for the aged in those centres where reduction in grants have been made. 
That the aged, and others within Australian society who are least able to defend themselves against the arbitrary acts of Governments should be spared from these unnecessary cuts. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the Government should reconsider its decision to cut the budgets of these institutions and immediately restore the grants to enable these institutions to continue their high standard of dedicated and unselfish care for the aged and infirm in the community. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to  Senator Withers  either as Minister for Administrative Services or as Minister representing the Prime Minister. I preface it by remarking that many members both of the Senate and of the House of Representatives, as well as many members of the public, were delighted to be able to view Governor Macquarie 's sword and dirk which were recently exhibited in Kings Hall. As the sword and dirk are no longer in Kings Hall will the Minister advise the Senate where these historical articles are now, for what reason they were removed from Kings Hall and whether they will be returned to Kings Hall which seems a most appropriate place for them to be displayed. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, with the remark that it has been brought to my attention that a Queensland farmer was asked to provide a copy of his income tax return in connection with a claim for unemployment benefit. He duly provided the return but incurred a cost when he was obliged to ask an accountant to do this for him. Will the Minister investigate whether in circumstances such as this persons can be reimbursed for obtaining documents that are requested? 
I direct a question to  Senator Carrick  either in his capacity as Minister for Education or in his capacity as Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. I refer to an article in the  Courier Mail  on 1 1 September 1976 in which the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  was reported as referring to some of the bird-brained teachers you have up here'. Was the  Deputy  Prime Minister's statement merely a consequence of the fact that he was in Queensland to open a tourist complex termed the  Big Cow,  or does his statement reflect official Government policy? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) When does the Minister expect to receive the final report of the Committee of Inquiry into the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee, and does he intend making the report public. 
Has the Minister been receiving interim reports, either written or verbal, from the committee. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  contacted the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs personally concerning his recent public call for the Minister's dismissal. If so, what reasons has the Premier advanced for his actions in this regard. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Minister cancel a planned visit to Adelaide on 2 August 1 976. If so, for what reason was the visit cancelled. 
-Can the Minister for Social Security advise the Senate whether family allowances are in some cases payable to Australian citizens who, together with their families, are temporarily overseas? If they are payable, what are the circumstances in which persons remain eligible to receive a family allowance? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What specific instructions has the Minister, or the Secretary of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, given to the Interim Aboriginal Land Commissioner,  Mr Justice  Ward, since 1 1 November 1975, relating to the nature and scope of  Mr Justice  Ward's inquiries as Interim Aboriginal Land Commissioner. 
In particular, will the Minister provide the full text of the written instruction to  Mr Justice  Ward, referred to in an article in  National Review  dated 6-12 August 1976, in relation to differentiation between claims based on need and claims based on tradition. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the full text of the instruction sent to the Interim Aboriginal Land Commissioner,  Mr Justice  Ward, advising him that hearings of claims by Aboriginals to traditional land in the Northern Territory have been suspended until the Federal Government's land rights legislation has been passed. 
Has the Minister, or the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, received any communications, either written or verbal, from Mount Isa Mines Limited or Asarco Ltd, relating to vacant crown lands between the McArthur River and Borroloola, since 1 1 November 1975. If so, what requests were made by the Company/Companies concerned and, did the submissions made by the Company/Companies influence the decision to suspend further hearings by  Mr Justice  Ward less than one month before the date set by the Interim Commissioner for a hearing into claims by the Borroloola Aboriginal Community. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Did a delegation from the Northern Territory, including representatives from the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, recently meet with the Minister to discuss Aboriginal land rights, with particular regard to the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976. If so, (a) what was the composition of the delegation, (b) when did the meeting in question take place, and (c) if  Mr Harry  Giese was a member of the delegation, in what capacity did he take pan in the meeting and did he attend with the approval of the Minister and of the Secretary of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What is (a) the name, (b) designation and (c) salary and entitlements, of each member of the GovernorGeneral's personal staff. 
Have there been any resignations or departures from the Governor-General's personal staff since II November 197S. If so, for what reasons have the resignations or departures concerned taken place. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware that  Dr John  Herron, the  Chairman  of the Australian Surgeons Association in Queensland and- if one can believe the Brisbane  Telegraph-  the leading contender to replace  Mr John  Moore as Queensland State  President  of the Liberal Party, has publicly advised people not to join Medibank Private? In view of the widespread publicity given to  Dr Herron  's attack on Medibank Private at a crucial time when all Australians are reaching their decisions regarding personal health insurance, will the Minister take this opportunity to repudiate  Dr Herron  's warnings on what he has referred to as 'the long term implications' of Medibank Private? Finally, will the Minister also advise the public of the advantages and security obtained by insuring with Medibank Private? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that it has been reported that at last Wednesday's joint Government parties meeting in Queensland, during discussions on the Cedar Bay raid, a senior Liberal backbencher moved that the Queensland Government hold an inquiry into the Australian Broadcasting Commission for alleged bias against the police and that the move was postponed for further consideration? While I appreciate that a newspaper report of an incident at a party meeting could be lacking in accuracy and while I assume that the Minister would not contemplate discussing matters emanating from a closed party meeting will he confirm that a State government has no jurisdiction over the affairs of the ABC and that the Federal Government would never condone or allow a State government to initiate such an inquiry? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the average waiting time between application for and receipt of (a) supporting mother's benefit, (b) child endowment, (c) student endowment, (d) orphan's pension, (e) maternity allowance, (0 handicapped child 's allowance, (g) tuberculosis allowance, and (h) domiciliary nursing care benefit. 
What percentage of initial applications are found on investigation not to justify the payment of benefit in each of the eight categories listed in ( 1 ). 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many appeals relating to (a) unemployment benefit, (b) sickness benefit, (c) age pension, (d) invalid pension, and (e) supporting mothers' benefit were dealt with in each State by Social Security Appeals Tribunals in (i) the March Quarter 1976 and (ii) the June Quarter 1976, and what are the detailed results of the appeals in question corresponding to the headings provided in the Minister's answer to Senate question No. 130, vide Senate Hansard, 4 May 1976, page 1515. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Has a decision been made not to proceed with the installation of a computer job-allocation system for the Commonwealth Employment Service. If so, (a) when was the decision taken, and for what reason; (b) what assistance would the installation of a computer job-allocation system provide in the functioning of the Commonwealth Employment Service; (c) what would have been involved; and (d) when, if at all, is it planned to proceed with the installation of a computer job-allocation system. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
What funds have been allocated under the Regional Employment Development scheme to each Shire Council in Queensland since the inception of the scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With relation to part (2) of the minister's answer on 1 June 1 976 to Senate Question No. 253 
1 ) What are the individual projected increases of international and domestic components making up the total projected increase. 
What are the projected increases in numbers of passengers involved in international and domestic travel. 
Are direct services from Sydney and Queensland ports, other than Brisbane contemplated. If so, what are the details of the services planned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
I ) How many staff members from the former Departments of (a) Urban and Regional Development, (b) Environment, (c) Housing and (d) Tourism and Recreation, who were listed on those Departments ' establishments on 1 1 November 1975, are currently positioned with the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. 
) How many staff from the former Departments listed in ( 1 ) have not been employed in the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, and what arrangements have been made to employ them in alternative Federal Government Departments. 
-I present the following petition from 32 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a great concern and alarm of the removal of some Government support for St Luke's Hospital, Garden Settlement and for other institutions providing care for the aged within Queensland. 
That the removal of grants is causing unnecessary hardship to those aged citizens of Australia who are dependent upon continued care and accommodation. 
That the removal of grants has caused unnecessary unemployment and hardship for those who were previously employed in duties caring for the aged in those centres where reduction in grants have been made. 
That the aged, and others within Australian Society who are least able to defend themselves against the arbitrary acts of governments should be spared from these unnecessary cuts. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the Government should reconsider its decision to cut the budgets of these institutions and immediately restore the grants to enable these institutions to continue their high standard of dedicated and unselfish care for the aged and infirm in the community. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I rise to speak in the debate on these Bills because I believe that we are witnessing one more chapter in the demise of Medibank. I would like in the first instance to reply to some of the comments of the previous  speaker.  He began by saying that it is nonsense to suggest that the Government had destroyed Medibank. He said: 'We have in fact improved it'. During the course of my comments I will show that it is not nonsense and that in fact Medibank as we know it has been destroyed, not improved. It has been turned into a debacle.  Senator Jessop  also spoke of an economic package, of tax indexation but, given the chance to speak later on the 2 Bills that are to be debated separately from these 3 Bills, I will point out that although we have tax indexation it has been made a farce because we now have an additional tax which people will have to pay. It is called a levy; it is nothing but a tax and taxation will be very much the same. Finally  Senator Jessop  said that he found the second reading speech disjointed. I am not surprised. That correlates with what Medibank has been made. 
I said when I commenced that we were witnessing one more chapter in the demise of Medibank. We should not be witnessing it at the moment because the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a promise during the election campaign that Medibank would be continued. Most people expected, at least until now, that Medibank would be continued in the same form as it was at that time last year. Despite the Prime Minister's promise, there were changes to Medibank early this year and have been since May. Medibank has been turned from a simple effective scheme into something which is very complex, something which people find very difficult to understand. It has become so complex that I was amazed the other day to find in the mail at my office- I am sure that most other honourable senators received it too- a draft Press release from Medibank. This draft Press release was styled so that we could fill in our name, the location of our office and our telephone number to make it read as a Press release from the senator whose name appeared on it to the effect that he was in his office to help people with their problems on Medibank. Granted, most of us do try to help our constitutents and most people know that their members and senators will help them if they go to them. But fancy an organisation, finding things so complex, with so many difficulties, sending draft Press releases to members and senators saying that those members and senators would be able to help the public. 
The last time I spoke on Bills relating the Medibank was after the announcement of the changes in May. As far as I can recall I said that wherever possible I would help my constituents who were having problems deciding what they should do about Medibank. Like most other honourable senators and, I am sure, members of the House of Representatives, from both sides, knowing that this legislation would go through because the Government had the numbers, I made an attempt to understand fully what the Medibank proposals were and, again, like most other honourable senators and members, my attempt to understand them was successful. So when asked I set out to explain to people what their options were. Unfortunately, whilst we were in recess there were so many changes that not only did the public become confused but also did many members of both Houses. When I spoke in the debate on those proposals there had been a pamphlet issued by Medibank which said: 'Medibank and You. High Quality Health Care for You and Your Family. It is Your Choice.' The size of the pamphlet, including the cover, was 6 pages. That was distributed before we went into recess. Whilst we were in recess there was so many changes that we ended up having delivered to our offices and the people of Australia had distributed to them a pamphlet of some 20 pages, including the cover, to explain the Medibank proposals. The phamphlet is 3 times the size of the original one. Was that an indication that the proposals had been made 3 times as complex? I would begin to think so. I believe that the original proposals that were handed down in May were ill-considered and illprepared. I am reminded of the times when I had students to whom I was responsible. If they had handed in to me work that was as ill-prepared as the original proposal for Medibank that this Government produced they would have failed miserably. I believe that in fact the Government has failed miserably in its proposals. 
Let me indicate to the Senate some of the background to the matter we are dealing with at the moment.  Senator Grimes  outlined how the Liberal and National Country parties have maintained continuous opposition to the Labor Party's universal health insurance schemes. He outlined how the Labor Party when in Opposition put forward proposals for a universal health insurance scheme. These proposals were well debated not only in the Parliament but also outside. When we came into power they were again debated. When we came into power in 1 972 the scheme was revised to make sure that it had as little inconsistency as possible and was the best possible scheme. Of course, legislation would not have been prepared for this scheme and it would not have been passed by the Parliament had it not been for the double dissolution that followed our original election in 1 972. And then it was even opposed all the way. It was not only opposed in the Parliament but it was opposed outside as well. It is interesting to note that this sort of opposition is continuing. 
I recall that back in May or early June when we were debating these proposals I commented on the number of pamphlets and posters that one would see upon walking into one's private medical practitioner's surgery before Medibank was introduced. I believe that some of these posters and pamphlets were almost libellous. But the fight still goes on. In today's  Australian  I read an article which was headed: 'Funds urge boycott of Medibank '. The article, in part, states: 
The head  or  Australia's private health funds has urged every doctor throughout the nation to persuade his patients to boycott Medibank Private. 

 Mr W. K. Moon,  president  of the Voluntary Health Insurance Association, representing 57 private health funds, sent a letter to all doctors as the battle to attract contributors by October 1 heats up. 
The article goes on to mention a number of points which he raised in his letter. So the battle is still going on. People outside the Parliament are using their influence to try to ensure not only that Medibank is reduced in effectiveness, as this Government is doing, but that it will fail altogether. I mentioned yesterday in this place that a well known surgeon in Queensland is urging people to keep away from Medibank Private. So not only was the fight going on then; it is still going on. There is an attempt by forces outside the Parliament to undermine Medibank. 
In his policy speech for the Liberal and National Country parties in 1975-1 alluded to this earlier-  Mr Fraser,  the caretaker Prime Minister at the time, stated: 
We will maintain Medibank and ensure that the standard of care does not decline. 
Most people thought at that time that 'we will maintain Medibank' meant that Medibank as we knew it in November 1975 would remain. A further statement seemed to indicate that this would be so, at least until this time this year. The brief statement made in  Mr Fraser's  policy speech was amplified during the course of the election campaign. For example, at a Press Club luncheon on 8 December 1 975  Mr Fraser  replied in part to a question that Medibank:  . . will be continued as it was introduced until we can assess properly its virtues and whatever faults might be revealed as a result of experience. Then public statements would be made about that and everyone would have an opportunity to express their views in relation to it. 
What opportunity have the people had to express their views in relation to any public statements about Medibank? The Government's decision on this matter was a  fait accompli.  The Government brought legislation before the Parliament and any debate or any opportunity we had to discuss it fell on deaf ears because the Government had the numbers to put legislation through both Houses. 
In January 1976 the Liberal and National Country parties appointed a Medibank Review Committee to examine the operations of Medibank and to make recommendations about possible and /or desirable alterations. The report made by the Committee to the Government has not been made public. But the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has stated that the Committee's comments and decisions were considered when the Government was working out its revised Medibank scheme. If the report was made, why was it not made public? After all,  Mr Fraser  during the election campaign, said that everyone would have the opportunity to express his views in relation to it after public statements had been made. Of course, the report was not made public. Perhaps there was a report, but we did not have the opportunity to debate it. We did not have the opportunity to say what we thought about certain proposals in the report. In fact, we do not even know that the Government did consider what was in the report, if there was a report, when it was revising its Medibank scheme. 
I would like to outline some of the changes that have been made to Medibank by this Government, not only changes that were made before we went into recess but ones that were made after. Let us take a look at the original statement made on 20 May this year. The Minister for Health gave details of proposed modifications. Amongst these were that there would be the introduction of a  2Vi  per cent levy on the taxable incomes of those who wished to remain in Medibank and who wished to be covered for 85 per cent of scheduled medical fees, and standard hospital ward accommodation with treatment by a hospital doctor. So in one fell swoop the Government introduced a levy which it had opposed not too long before. I will not dwell on the levy because that is the subject of another Bill and I hope I will be able to speak then about this subject. The statement went on to mention how there would be a ceiling to the levy. It pointed out that people may choose to insure against the cost of intermediate or private accommodation in public or private hospitals, the fees of a doctor of their choice and ancillary charges. This statement went on to say that medium and low income earners could remain in Medibank by paying a levy and, in addition, could pay an extra premium to a private health fund for insurance cover only. This would allow them to share intermediate accommodation and to have the doctor of their choice. 
There is a number of other aspects in the changes announced on 20 May, one of which was that from 1 October this year, when the new Medibank is to take effect, premiums or levies for health insurance, whether paid to Medibank or to a private health fund, would no longer be tax rebatable. It also had a rather complex scheme which provided for those people who had attained a certain level of income. The Government said that it might be cheaper for those people to opt into one fund or to opt out of another. We went away from this place for the recess thinking that we had a document such as this document- a 6-page booklet- which outlined all the options that were available for people who were to be subjected to this Medibank legislation from 1 October. It was not long before we started to hear that changes were to be made. On 8 June, only shortly after we had gone into recess, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health jointly announced that Cabinet had decided to allow Medibank to offer intermediate and private hospital accommodation insurance for those people who wished to take out full cover with Medibank. Thus, Medibank would be able to compete directly with the private health funds at the intermediate or private bed levels. The sum of $ 10m was to be provided to underwrite Medibank Private insurance. So, by 8 June the six page pamphlet was out of date. 
On 22 July another statement was made announcing further changes to Medibank. I am mentioning these to the Senate to indicate how ill-prepared the legislation was. If the legislation had been prepared properly, surely all these changes that were made during the recess when Parliament was not here to debate them would not have been necessary. On 22 July 1976 the Minister for Health announced that a ceiling of $300 per annum had been set on the 2 te per cent levy which previously had been open-ended. In fact, this was necessary. I think I pointed this out in this place before June, but that announcement was made while we were in recess. The ceiling was to be administered, it was said in the same Press release, by the Taxation Office. If we are to understand it properly, the Taxation Office was somewhat reluctant to administer this ceiling. The Minister also announced some other changes on 22 July. He said that a subsidy would be operating to hold down the cost of intermediate level hospital accommodation which would otherwise be too expensive for low and medium income earners. This subsidy was expected to total about $ 15m. I wonder whether the subsidy became necessary because the Government had not done its homework properly and had not properly costed its Medibank operations. Other statements were issued which indicated that more generous assistance would be provided to the chronically ill-  Senator Grimes  referred to this earlier- and that a reinsurance pool of $50m would be provided for this purpose. 
On 24 August 1976, because of a question which was asked in this place, we learnt that people who held pensioner medical service cards would not be liable to pay the Medibank levy. This announcement might have been made before, but to my knowledge this was the first time that we became aware of it. On 25 August, to conclude some of the major changes that were made to Medibank, Medibank Private announced that its private bed patients would be covered for 365 days a year- the same cover offered by the private funds. These were some of the changes which were outlined by the Government. I have not discussed the technical aspects of the Bill. The technical aspects of the Bill can be well discussed in the Committee stage. I have not discussed them at this stage because I believe that the people I represent are not interested in the technical aspects of the Bill. They want a simple and effective health system. They do want a system and they do want Medibank. I make that point because one of the members of the House of Representatives,  Mr Donald  Cameron, who lives in the same city as I do, when speaking in the debate on the Health Insurance Bill (No. 2) 1976 on 16 September, said: 
I do not profess to speak on behalf of anyone else, but my personal view is that I could not care what happens to Medibank. 
He could not care what happens to Medibank but I am sure his constituents do care. I am sure that his constituents during the campaign for the next election for the House of Representatives will ask him why he said that he could not care what happens to Medibank. 
-Yes, that is the honourable member for Griffith at the present time. When the electors of Griffith become aware of his statements he may find that he will have some difficulty trying to convince them that he should remain their representative. As I said, the constituents I represent want a simple and effective health system. They had one and they will demand another one at the next election. Strange as it may seem, it is not uncommon for me to agree with an editorial in the  Courier Mail.  I should like to point out to the Senate some remarks that were made in the editorial of the  Courier Mail  today. The editorial in the  Courier Mail  was headed 'Medibank muddle'. In part, it states: 
Confusion,  uncertainty,  disquiet and a fair measure of anger- this is the mood of the country as the October I starting date approaches for the patched-together national health insurance scheme. 
There is no enthusiasm for it, either from left or right . . . 
The new health scheme is a monstrous touch-up of Labor's extravagant Medibank proposals meshed with the old private funds in a highly unsatisfactory compromise . . . 
The non-Labor parties ' record on Medibank has been one of blatant inconsistency and shameless improvisation. Having opposed a levy when Labor was in power they now have imposed an even heavier one. 
The present Government condemned a number of the original features of Medibank, . . . but it has been forced by its election pledge to maintain a semblance of the scheme, while committing the country to an ever more complex and grossly expensive system. 
By no stretch of the imagination can one say that the editorials of the  Courier Mail  usually favour the Australian Labor Party. But the  Courier Mail,  to give it its credit, has stated what is obvious. We now have a muddle of a scheme. It is a complex scheme. It is difficult for people to understand. As I said earlier, in late May or early June, I shall continue to help the people whom I represent to make a proper decision, a decision that they have only a limited time to make before 1 October. It is a difficult scheme. It has been made very complex and I am sure the Government will have to wear the odium that it has created for itself by what it has done to Medibank. 
I hope to speak on some of the aspects of the other Bills which provide a levy. When I do I shall be making further comments about how this Government has misled the Australian people. But let me conclude by saying again that the people whom I represent want a simple, effective system. They will demand one at the next general election. After the next general election, when there is a different government, they will be provided with such a system. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Queensland Government formally requested the Australian Government to provide additional funds for capital works to relieve unemployment in that State as was foreshadowed by the Queensland Treasurer in the  CourierMail  dated 20 August 1976. If so, (a) when was the request received, (b) what assistance has been requested, and (c) when will a decision be taken with regard to the request. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in the  Courier-Mail  dated 1 5 July 1 976, concerning an inquest held in the Brisbane Coroner's Court following the collapse of a building on the Royal Australian Air Force Base at Amberley in October 1975. If so, can the Minister advise why volunteer labour was employed in demolishing the building concerned, and whether he is satisfied that adequate precautions were taken in the demolition. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Is it a fact that the Department of Education has had to have the title page of 3000 copies of the report entitled Literacy and Numeracy in Austraiian Schools reprinted because of incorrect spelling on that page? If so, what are the details and what has been the total cost of the reprint? As a result of this extraordinary occurrence does the Minister have some doubts about the standard of literacy in his Department? 
This evening we have witnessed a classical defence mechanism of projection from previous speakers.  Senator Baume  in his address said that the Australian Labor Party's scheme had been a failure. I contend that the Australian Labor Party's scheme of Medibank that was operating when the present Government came into power was a profound success. If any failure has been made of the scheme, it has been made because of the legislation that is before us at the moment.  Senator Baume  mentioned that this Government had consulted with community groups. I will come to that point shortly. Let me just mention that during this Budget session- this is the fifth sitting week- 24 petitions on Medibank have been presented to the Senate. Those 24 petitions have carried 2,775 signatories and have asked that Medibank be retained or improved. I wonder whether those people had been consulted. I wonder whether those petitions were accepted. 
I contend that  Senator Baume  did nothing to show what was wrong with the Labor Party's Medibank scheme. It is interesting to note that  Senator Baume  quoted a remark once made by  Sir Winston  Churchill. A person whom I had never met before came to me during the suspension of the sitting for dinner and said that he also had been thinking about Churchill with regard to Medibank. He said that he was thinking about Churchill 's statement which went something like this: 'Never before in the field of human conflict has so much been done for so many by so few'. He said that, with all respect to Churchill, in regard to Medibank 1976 he had been thinking along these lines: 'Never before in the field of human social welfare has so much muddle been created for so many by so few bureaucrats and the Government'. This is what has happened. 
This was not just a chance remark made by one person. The Melbourne  Age  of last Friday had an editorial which was headed: 'The daunting Medi-muddle'. Let me quote some parts of the editorial. It stated: 
One of the ostensible objectives of the Federal Government's changes to the national health insurance scheme was to offer greater freedom of choice. Now as October 1- the day of decision- approaches, most people are finding that in a multitude of choices there lies complexity and confusion. Medibank offices, private funds, chemists and even doctors have been swamped with anxious inquiries from people who cannot understand what they have to do or want advice on what is best for them. 
The editorial pointed out all of the conflicting choices with which the public was confronted. It then stated: 
True, consumers constantly face a bewildering variety of choices. But here, a range of options has been imposed on them by the Government and there is no escape, for no one is allowed to opt out of health insurance altogether. 
So much for freedom of choice.  Senator Tehan,  the previous  speaker  in this debate, exhibited similar projection when he said that the Opposition had attempted to put difficulties where there are none. What the Opposition had and what it put into play when it was in government was a simple effective system. What the current Government is doing is putting difficulties where there were none previously. I thank the previous  speaker  for quoting some of my remarks about the demise of Medibank, because I still contend that Medibank is being dismantled by this Government. 
My main purpose in speaking tonight is twofold: Firstly, I intend to outline how the public has been duped over this levy; and, secondly, I intend to make a plea to honourable senators from Queensland- I note that there are none in the chamber at the moment- to support the Opposition in its amendment. I will develop an argument as to why I think they should support the Opposition. Firstly, I would like to go over some of the background that is pertinent to this levy. When  Mr Fraser  was conducting his election campaign last year he said, as we all well know now: 'We will maintain Medibank'. As I said previously, most people thought that this meant that Medibank would remain in that form for some time in the future. We believed that if there were to be any changes there would be public debate. We did not believe that there would be debate, as there is now, only days before the legislation is to come into effect. Such debate is almost pointless. We did riot believe that Medibank would be changed, because  Mr Fraser  had given an undertaking when, during the course of the election campaign, he said that Medibank:   . . will be continued as it was introduced until we can assess properly its virtues and whatever faults might be revealed as a result of experience. Then public statements would be made about that and everyone would have an opportunity to express their views in relation to it. 
What opportunity has this Parliament had really to express its views? Every time a piece of legislation has been brought before this Parliament it has been assumed that that legislation will go through because the Government has had the numbers. There has been no real public debate. 
The Government instituted a Medibank Review Committee to examine the operations of Medibank. I believe that the Committee made some recommendations; but we have not seen the recommendations. The Parliament itself has not seen the recommendations or the report. So, we do not know whether what was introduced was as a result of the report of the Medibank Review Committee. No opportunity has been given for real public debate on these proposals- a situation that is so much different from the public debate that we had on the Australian Labor Party proposals before we even came into power in 1972. Our proposals were debated at length at that time. When we came to power the proposals were debated again for quite a long time before the legislation was introduced. So what happened? 
On 20 May this year we were faced with the statement that changes would be made to Medibank and a levy would be introduced. I want to confine my remarks mainly to the levy tonight because that is what these Bills deal with. On 20 May it was announced that people had one of three choices. They could pay a levy of  2Vt  per cent on their taxable income; they could opt out if they wished and could join private hospital and medical insurance funds; or they could opt for something of a hybrid scheme in which they paid a Medibank levy and, in addition, paid an extra premium to private health funds for hospital cover only. We were told that there was this great freedom of choice. Many of my constitutents have said to me: 'There is no real freedom of choice'. I believe them because if there were real freedom of choice there would be 3 choicesMedibank, private funds and the choice to opt out altogether. Let us not overburden the freedom of choice argument. When the 3 possible schemes were announced we were presented with a 6-page pamphlet which outlined the scheme. This did not stay current for very long because on 22 July a change was made to it- a welcome change too. Honourable senators will recall that the original pamphlet, in part, stated that if a person's taxable income was $12,000 a year or over he must advise his paymaster or any Medibank office or he will be charged  Vh  per cent of his taxable income, however large. Of course, that was a defect in the scheme. On 22 July this defect was rectified and a ceiling of $300 a year was announced. Of course, that immediately put the original pamphlet out of date. Actually, the pamphlet was out of date earlier than that because on 8 June- shortly after the Senate rose for the recess- a decision was made to allow Medibank to offer private insurance- Medibank Private. Even a couple of weeks after we rose for the recess the pamphlet was already out of date. These are the historical facts of the levy with which we have been faced. It is interesting to note that the imposition of this levy- which is nothing other than a tax- makes a real mockery of indexation.  Senator Donald  Cameron pointed this out earlier and I think  Senator Grimes  may also have pointed it out. The fact that we have tax indexation and now have a levy on top of it means that many people in the community, particularly the middle income earners, are marginally worse off as far as tax goes. The levy is nothing other than a tax. It seems that the Government's philosophy is to give with one hand and take with the other. The Government has taken very much the same action with family allowances. If one examines the Budget Papers in relation to family allowances it is clear that about $700m extra will be spent on family allowances this year but, on the other hand, about $700m will be saved because dependent children will no longer be allowable as a tax deduction. 
It is interesting to note the change that has come over honourable senators opposite in regard to the levy. The Labor Government originally proposed a 1.35 per cent levy for Medibank. When the legislation for the introduction of that levy came before this Senate it was blocked. I am one person on this side of the chamber who is thankful that it was blocked. It allowed Medibank to be financed by what I consider to be the most socially acceptable systemthrough the general taxation system. But now, after having blocked that legislation some time ago this Government is not introducing a 1.35 per cent levy as originally proposed by the Labor Government but is introducing a  2Vi  per cent levy. Not only the levy but also the proposals that go with it have brought about untold confusion. One has to look only in the newspapers of the day to read the stories about: 'What shall we do in this case and what shall we do in another case?'. 

 Senator Grimes, in opening the debate on these Bills, remarked tonight about a letter that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  had written to one of the newspapers. The newspaper editor finally had to say that he was still confused. I am sure the people also are still confused. I wish to mention something about the attitude that honourable senators from Queensland should take with regard to this Bill. I invite them to support the Opposition by adding to the motion:  , but the Senate is of the opinion that Medibank should be funded out of general revenue. 
In doing so, I should like to quote from  Hansard  some of the comments made not only by honourable senators from Queensland but also by members of the House of Representatives who come from Queensland. The statements indicate that these people are not happy about paying a levy in Queensland because of the historical nature of the free hospital system in that State. I should like to quote the remarks of the honourable member for Lilley,  Mr Kevin  Cairns, and his approach to the prospect of this levy before the Labor Government come into power in 1 972. On 27 September 1972, when speaking to the Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) 1 972 he said: 
There is one further matter to which I want to refer, namely, the hospital system. I want to refer to it particularly in relation to the position in my own State of Queensland. The remarkable feature is that the honourable member for Oxley, who portrays himself as the shadow Minister for Health, means to destroy 25 years of a Queensland public hospital system by imposing on Australia and Australians a new compulsory health tax . . . 

 Mr Cairns implied, as he went on, that this was not satisfactory for Queensland because of the fact that for many years Queensland had had a hospital system which was free to the people. Some days later, on 17 October 1972, when speaking in the debate on the States Grants (Special Assistance) Bill 1972,  Mr Kevin  Cairns said:  . . The proposition which the Labor Party makes in respect of this social service is to tax the people of Queensland by the introduction of a new compulsory health tax which will enable them only to have their own free hospitals. The proposition will give the people nothing. It is a tax which will be imposed on each citizen working in that State and will escalate at the rate of 1 2 per cent a person a year. 
In other words,  Mr Cairns  was not going to have anything to do with the levy. This was not the attitude only of members of the House of Representatives. I should like to quote the words of 2 honourable senators from Queensland who are currently members of this chamber about the levy and how it would affect the people of Queensland. During the debate on the Health Insurance Bill on 17 July 1974,  Senator Sheil  said: 
If ever there was a bunch of senators - 
I like his language- which had a clear mandate to vote against the Bills it is the senators from Queensland. 
I certainly hope so. I am looking forward to the honourable senators from Queensland showing the people they represent that they really mean business in this chamber. In that same debate  Senator Sheil  went on to say: 
There are several precedents for senators voting for their States irrespective of the party line. 
He must have been replying to remarks made by  Senator Keeffe  at the time because he went on to say: 
If  Senator Keeffe  would read 'Australian Senate Practice' by our inimitable  Clerk  of the Senate,  Mr Odgers,  he would see that there are precedents for senators voting to protect their States. 
Let us see whether  Senator Sheil  will vote to protect his State tonight and assist us with our amendment to this legislation. Let me continue to quote what  Senator Sheil  said at the Joint Sitting on 7 August 1974 when the Health Insurance Commission Bill was being debated. He said: 
I hope that with the health Bills all Queensland senators will vote together, as they have been clearly instructed to do, and reject them. 
By whom? 

 Senator Sheil replied: 
By the people of Queensland. 
Let me not stop with  Senator Sheil.  Let me speak of another colleague from Queensland who is sitting on the Government benches.  Senator Wood  has expressed the thought that he is not happy with the Medibank levy as it will apply to Queensland. In 2 June this year, when speaking on the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill, he said: 
I am deeply concerned with the Health Insurance Levy  Assessment Bill  and the Health Insurance Levy Bill because they could mean the abandonment of something which has operated in Queensland for many years; namely, the free hospital scheme. 
Later, in conclusion, he said: 
I am very concerned about the Bill which imposes the Medibank levy. I will not be in favour of it unless we get some indication that the free scheme in Queensland can continue. 
This evening I ask that before we vote on this amendment the Queensland senators consider the system that they know well in Queensland, consider what this legislation will mean to the Queensland people and to their free hospital system, and consider whether they should show that they do not support this levy on the people they represent. The Queensland senators can do that by voting in favour of our amendment, which states that the Senate is of the opinion that Medibank should be funded out of general revenue. 
I believe that in the end people will reject the prospect of a Medibank levy. I am sure that many people in the community still do not understand the full implications of what the levy means to them. Many people will be shocked when they receive their first weekly or fortnightly pay in October and find that it is considerably lower because a levy has been taken from it. When that happens people will reject the levy completely. The Australian Labor Party is committed to a Medibank system which does not impose a levy but is funded out of general taxation. We will discontinue the levy after the next election. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Department of Aboriginal Affairs have a specified policy on the use of the terms 'Aborigines ' and 'Aboriginals ' in correspondence; if so, what is that policy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) When does the Minister expect to receive the report of the 'Hay' Inquiry, and does he intend to make the report public 
Has the Minister been receiving interim reports, either written or verbal, from the 'Hay' Committee. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Roman Catholic Jesuit Order requested Comalco Ltd to recognise Aboriginal land rights and to increase compensation to the Aboriginal people of Weipa. 
Has the Order, Comalco Ltd, or the Aboriginal community of Weipa approached the Department of Aboriginal Affairs about this matter since the Annual General Meeting of Comalco in Melbourne on 14 April 1976. 
Does the Minister, or the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, intend to intervene in the discussions on the suggested renegotiation of the agreement between the Aboriginal community and Comalco Ltd. 
What assistance has (a) Comalco Ltd, (b) the Australian Government, and (c) the Queensland Government given to the Aboriginal community of Weipa since the date mining rights at Weipa were first granted to Comalco Ltd. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to an answer I was given to Senate question No. 922 in which I asked for information about appeals relating to a number of social security benefits. I have been surprised by the wide variation from State to State in the percentage of appeals upheld. Figures for two separate 3-monthly periods, especially for unemployment benefit, show similar State by State variations. Has the Minister or her Department made any study to determine why there is such a wide variation? Can any suggestion be made as to why these variations exist? 
In the House of Representatives on 18 February last, the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  answered a question without notice from the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam.  The Prime Minister, in his answer, stated that the Government had not at that time determined its attitude to the report of the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of Parliament. During the course of his reply, the Prime Minister did mention that, as a result of the recommendations of the Joint Committee, all Ministers had been asked to make declarations of their pecuniary interests to him. He also stated that all ministerial staff had made, or were in the process of making, similar declarations to the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers). 
I take the time of the Senate this evening to urge the Government to take immediate steps to implement the recommendations of the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests. Those involved in the political life of this nation seem always to have been regarded as something less than honest. To my mind, this conclusion is patently incorrect for an overwhelming number of members of Parliament. Nevertheless, the editorial writer of the  Australian  on 3 September this year, succinctly outlined what a serious and sensitive area this is. In part, the editorial on that day read as follows: 
No members of any Australian Parliament will be safe from the more unsavoury kind of innuendo that links their political business with financial pleasure until a code of conduct is set down, backed up with rules of disclosure and reinforced by stiff penalties for offenders. 
One of the most notable facts about politics in Australia in recent times has been the steady, progressive decline in citizen confidence in their institutions of government in general, and in the Parliament in particular. This decline in confidence is freely discussed in the Press, is the subject of lectures in government at our universities, and is accepted by most, if not all of us, in the Parliament. Yet remedial action has been slow in coming. I am certain that a most important step in the restoration of public confidence is for Parliament to enact enforceable legislation requiring public disclosure of financial holdings and assets of members of Parliament, their staff and other office holders. 
The New South Wales Premier,  Mr Wran,  announced on 1 September that he would later this year, or early next year, introduce legislation requiring members of the New South Wales Parliament to reveal their pecuniary interests.  Mr Wran's  statement has been greeted with satisfaction by all those who were appalled by recent revelations in the New South Wales Parliament concerning the incomes of Ministers in the previous Liberal-Country Party Government in that State from their milk quotas. Soon after  Mr Wran's  announcement, the Victorian Premier,  Mr Hamer,  revealed that he would like to establish a code of business conduct for members of the Victorian Parliament. 
I do not intend to debate the relative merits of the different approaches adopted by these 2 States. Nevertheless, I do contend that both  Mr Wran  and  Mr Hamer  are to be commended for taking action in this important sphere. One consequence of the separate announcements of  Mr Wran  and  Mr Hamer  has been to underline the Federal Government's inaction. It is not satisfactory to demand that Ministers merely make declarations to the Prime Minister and that ministerial staff make similar declarations to the Minister for Administrative Services. It is to be hoped that  Mr Fraser,  following his reply to  Mr Whitlam  on 18 February, has sought to reach a decision on the Government's attitude to all the recommendations of the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests. After all, this Committee was drawn from both sides of both Houses of this Parliament. It is worth reminding members that the Committee's report, tabled in this House almost one year ago, was the result of a unanimous decision of the members of that Committee. 
There is a greater onus on the Federal Government than simply to make its intentions clear. It is equally as important for the Government to set the lead to those States of Australia which have neglected to come to grips with the very real problem which confronts members of Parliament- the problem of conflict of interest. In particular, I urge the Government not only to set an example by preparing and passing through the national Parliament suitable legislation, but also to use its considerable influence to have the Queensland Government introduce similar legislation. 
All honourable senators will be aware of the claims regarding conflict of interest involving Ministers in the Queensland Government. These claims abound and, although some have been proved beyond doubt, they are almost unbelievable in their audacity. 
Undoubtedly, the most celebrated case involved the revelation in 1970 that 6 Queensland Cabinet Ministers had received handouts of preferential shares from Comalco. Years later, in an interview with David Frost, the Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  confided that, when matters in which a Queensland Government Minister had a pecuniary interest came before Cabinet, that Minister left the Cabinet room and did not take pan in the discussion. Thus, when an issue involving Comalco comes before the Queensland Cabinet, a most peculiar situation must prevail. Obviously, many members of the Cabinet would be obliged to leave the room and wait outside whilst the matter was discussed by the remainder of their Cabinet colleagues. 
Allegations and counter-allegations about the pecuniary interests of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  have continually surfaced throughout his term as Premier of Queensland. Many of these allegations have involved mining ventures in which the Queensland Premier has held an interest, including Exoil (No Liability) and Artesian Basin OU Co. Pty Ltd. These issues are a matter of public record and have been discussed at length in Parliament and in the media. No doubt people have made up their own minds by now on the integrity or lack of integrity of the Queensland Premier with respect to his business dealings. 
Some honourable senators may wonder why I would tonight raise the name of the Queensland Premier. I do so because I have been prompted to speak on this occasion on the need for urgent action on the Joint Committee report by what I consider to be an appalling situation that currently exists in the State of Queensland. About 2 months ago, I became aware of details which I shall outline to the Senate this evening. I do admit that, for reasons which will soon become clear, I have until now been reluctant to raise the matter in this place. I am led to believe that a number of newspapers and other media outlets wanted to report the matter. Facts about the details I am about to outline were made known at the National Party conference in Cairns in July this year. I have been informed that the Premier's Press Officer,  Mr Allen  Callaghan, threatened the Press that if it reported the details it would face libel action. After I speak tonight, that threat, of course, will have no force at all. 
Since I became aware of the matter, which involves a stunning conflict of interest on the part of the Queensland Premier, some mention of it has been made elsewhere, despite the threats of  Mr Callaghan.  The matter was featured in an article by Robert Cameron and Marian Wilkinson in the  Nation Review  on 3 September 1976, and also in a pamphlet which has been circulating in Brisbane. Nevertheless, let me state that I wanted to be certain of my facts before mentioning the matter in this chamber. I am extremely conscious of the fact that any criticism I make of the Queensland Premier could be construed simply as an attempt by me to score political points against him, given his treatment of my nomination to succeed the late Bertie Milliner in this place. It is well known how  Mr BjelkePetersen  supported an unwarranted attack on my character at the time of the casual vacancy in 1975. This, however, did not affect my objectivity. 
My criticism of the Premier tonight is by no means an attempt to play politics. The issue I am about to outline is far too serious for that. The facts that I shall now recount provide the strongest impetus I have yet heard for legislative action, not only in Queensland but in the Federal 
Parliament to guard against an apparent conflict of interests on the part of political leaders of this country. The facts which I have been able to obtain already indicate a remarkable web which involves a firm named Nema Holdings Ltd, the State Works Department and  Mr BjelkePetersen.  In fact my investigations have shown - 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in the  National Times  dated 28 June 1976, by Andrew Clark, which purports to reveal selected extracts from Department of Aboriginal Affairs staff memoranda relating to cuts in Federal funding for Aboriginal Affairs; if so, since the extracts are selective will the Minister agree to provide the Senate with the full text of each of the memoranda quoted in the article. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What action, if any, is the Department of Primary Industry taking to develop an Australia-wide grain reserve strategy, as was suggested in an Editorial in the  Queensland Country Life  on 24 June 1 976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Canberra received any information from its various branch offices that would verify the claim made by Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islander's Advancement,  Mr Wharton,  and reported in the  Courier Mail  dated 6 August 1976, that Queensland was turning into a refugee camp for Aborigines from the Northern Territory and New South Wales '. 
If the claim can be verified, what are the reasons for this situation, and what action is the Minister taking as a result. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Department of Aboriginal Affairs been involved in legal action relating to the liquidation of the Foundation for Aboriginal Affairs; if so, what are the details. 
Is the Department of Aboriginal Affairs involved in legal actions against any other Aboriginal organisations at the present time; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the working party inquiring into problems associated with Aboriginal employment, announced in the Minister's press release dated 28 May 1976, submitted its report to the Government; if so, what action has been taken by the Government as a result of the working party's recommendations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Queensland Government sought the advice or assistance of the Federal Department of Aboriginal Affairs in relation to the recent announcement by the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement that it is intended to establish an Aboriginal Commission in the State; if so, what liaison exists between the Australian and Queensland Government regarding the proposal. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the anticipated reduction in staffing of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs resulting from the cutback in funding available to the Department as a result of the 1 976-77 Budget estimates, and what are the expected cuts in staffing in each Division of the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the Minister considering the preparation of a Green Paper on the future administration of Aboriginal Affairs; if so, when is it likely the Green Paper will be produced. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Treasurer's attention been drawn to an article in the Sydney Daily Telegraph dated 19 March 1976, in which the Queensland Premier, the Honourable J. Bjelke-Petersen, is quoted as claiming that Australia was 'bankrupt'; if so, (a) was Australia 'bankrupt' at the time  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  made his claim, and (b) what were the official figures relating to the deficit that were referred to by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  in the article and apparently influenced the Premier to make his statement. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has the Director-General of the Department of Social Security,  Mr L.  Daniels, written to the Minister warning that the Government would cause 'considerable hardship' and face 'widespread ridicule ' if it forced recipients of unemployment benefit and sickness benefit to complete tax rebate forms, as was claimed in an article in the Melbourne  Age  dated 1 1 September 1976; if so, (a) what objections did the Director-General offer to the apparent proposal  from  the Taxation Department to tax people on sickness and unemployment benefit at the rate of 35c in the dollar unless they complete a tax rebate form and, (b) what action does the Minister intend taking as a result of the objectives raised by the Permanent Head of her Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the total amount provided to each local government area in Queensland under the Special Work Projects Scheme since December 1972. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Transport studied the findings of three Melbourne surgeons detailed in a recent edition of the Medical Journal of Australia and reported in the Melbourne Age dated 17 May 1976, that deficiencies in car seat belt design are causing a greater incidence of bowel rupture. If so, what action has been taken as a result of the Department's investigations. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What arrangements with regard to air travel were made for the Prime Minister and his party on the Prime Minister's recent visit to the United States and Canada. 
If chartered or Royal Australian Air Force aircraft were used on any sections of the tour, (a) why was their use considered necessary, and (b) why were commercial aircraft used on the remaining sections of the tour. 
Did the Prime Minister, his staff, and the accompanying security officials find the travel arrangements satisfactory. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Treasury costed the recommendations contained in the draft report on the petroleum and mining industries issued by the Industries Assistance Commission. If so, what is the estimated cost of implementing the recommendations for the financial year 1976-77, and the financial year 1981-82. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many employers were granted extension of time to issue group certificates in each State, for each financial year, from 1969-70 to 1975-76. 
-I present the following petition from 28 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a great concern and alarm of the removal of some Government support for St Luke 's Hospital, Garden Settlement and for other institutions providing care for the aged within Queensland. 
That the removal of grants is causing unnecessary hardship to those aged citizens of Australia who are dependent upon continued care and accommodation. 
That the removal of grants has caused unnecessary unemployment and hardship for those who were previously employed in duties caring for the aged in those centres where reduction in grants have been made. 
That the aged, and others within Australian Society who are least able to defend themselves against the arbitrary acts of Governments should be spared from these unnecessary cuts. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the Government should reconsider its decision to cut the budgets of these institutions and immediately restore the grants to enable these institutions to continue their high standard of dedicated and unselfish care for the aged and infirm in the community. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs aware that, as reported in the  Courier-Mail of 30  September 1976, the Queensland Premier,  Mr BjelkePetersen,  and the Liberal Treasurer,  Mr Knox,  have agreed to consider asking other State governments to form a joint States' committee to watch the Federal Government for any infringement of States' rights. Has the Queensland Government discussed the proposal with the Prime Minister or any of his colleagues? Would the Federal Government welcome the formation of such a committee? If so, what advantages would there be in establishing a States' rights committee? 
I had no intention of speaking on the adjournment tonight but when I heard that  Senator Sheil  was to speak on the matter that I raised last night I felt compelled to say a few words to the Senate, especially with regard to the comments which had been made. It is not the first time tonight that the word 'gutter' has been used. In fact - 
-Very well,  Mr President.  I shall mention that tonight on radio and television in Queensland the Premier of Queensland accused me of making misleading comments to this Senate. During the course of his accusations he said that I picked my information up from the gutter. I should like to tell the Senate in a moment where I did find my information. It was not from that leaflet that was referred to just a few minutes ago. I should like to point out also that during that same news broadcast which I heard by way of telephone this evening the Premier of Queensland said that he would be writing to you,  Mr President,  to complain about the misleading information that I had given to this Senate last night. I do hope he writes to you because I shall point out to the Senate tonight where I obtained the information. 
Before I do that, let me mention that the whole point of what I said last night with regard to the Premier of Queensland has been missed. In fact, my whole argument last night centred on the report of the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of the Parliament. The point that I was stressing with regard to the Premier of Queensland was not that he was necessarily profiting from any shareholding that he had but that there was a conflict of interest. It was this conflict of interest that I was stressing. 
I did not make this speech with the expectation that it would be left to people to read  Hansard  in order to find out what I had said. My motives were greater than that. Today I had a member of my staff in Brisbane take copies of my speech to every person who was mentioned in the speech and to some people who were not mentioned directly but were, only peripherally connected. Amongst others, copies went to Nema Holdings Ltd,  Mr Siller,  who was mentioned last night, to  Mr Bjelke-Petersen's  office, to  Mr Lee,  the Minister for Construction and- Housing, and to Spry Walker and Co. which, I believe, is connected with Nema Holdings Ltd and associated companies, and also the Commissioner for Corporate Affairs. Out of courtesy, those people and organisations were sent copies of the speech, so that they would be able to see what was in it and what was the main theme of my argument.  Mr Siller  was quoted on television tonight. He was quoted as mentioning that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  did have an interest in Nema Holdings. The point I am making is that the whole theme of my argument was concerned with a conflict of interest. Where did I obtain most of my information?  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  was quoted on the media tonight as saying that I picked it up out of the gutter. If I picked it up out of the gutter, that does not say much for some of his State Government organisations; I obtained most of the information from the Queensland Government's Office of Corporate Affairs. 
-Of course it is public knowledge, but the honourable senator said that I took it from a document which was circulated by the Building Workers Industrial Union. The honourable senator quoted a statement by the State Secretary of the Building Workers Industrial Union, a man who is an avowed communist, to back up his argument. I obtained my information from a place where this type of information is readily available, or at which it should be readily available, to any member of the public. 
Honourable senators may remember that in my speech last night I said that some not too subtle attempts were made to prevent me from obtaining information. When I went to the Office of the Commissioner for Corporate Affairs on a number of occasions to seek this information, I was told from time to time: "The document is missing. We cannot find the document. Ring back later on. We may have it in the morning'. But I persisted and I obtained the information from that Office. I am very surprised indeed that  Senator Shiel  should stand up here and try to defend the Premier of Queensland in respect of the statements that I made last night. 
-Yes, he is leaving.  Senator Sheil  was a member of the Joint Committee on the Pecuniary Interests of Members of Parliament. I wish to quote a couple of recommendations from that report. The first recommendation reads: 
The Committee recommends that Members of Parliament should disclose the names of all companies in which they have a beneficial interest of shareholdings, no matter how insignificant, whether held as an individual, a member of another company or partnership, or through a trust. 
That is one of the recommendations of the Joint Committee of which  Senator Sheil  was a member. There is nothing in the report to show that  Senator Sheil  in any way disagreed with that recommendation. But another of the recommendations is even more significant. 
. the Committee recommends that Ministers of the Crown, on assuming office, should resign any directorship and dispose of any shares in a public or private company which might be seen to be affected by decisions taken within the Minister's sphere of responsibility. 
That recommendation clearly outlines the conflict of interest about which I was speaking last night. With your concurrence,  Mr President,  I shall read a short statement which I issued tonight. I did not think that I would be speaking in the adjournment debate tonight. I hoped that I would not have to take the time of the Senate this evening to do so. Believing at about 8 o'clock this evening that I would not be speaking in the adjournment debate I issued a statement concerning some of the comments that have been made about me by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  this afternoon. With your concurrence,  Mr President,  I would like to read to the Senate the statement which I issued to the Press this evening. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  The statement reads: 

 Senator Mai Colston tonight said that it was incredible that the Premier of Queensland had resorted to personal abuse in an effort to push the Nema affair under the carpet. It is quite obvious that the Premier has not read the speech presented to the Senate last night',  Senator Colston  said. A copy was supplied to his office by a member of my staff this afternoon. Until he gives it proper consideration he should not go off with ill prepared statements.  Senator Colston  said that the Premier's claim that the Senate had been deceived was totally false. So too was the claim that I had obtained my information from an anonymous pamphlet. 'My facts were researched and a great majority of my information came from the Queensland State Government's Corporate Affairs Office',  Senator Colston  said. I stand by what I said last night and, if necessary, would repeat it outside Parliament. 
That is the statement which I issued this evening in the belief that I would not be speaking in the Senate tonight. When I spoke last night, I intended doing 2 things: first, to urge the Government to take note of the recommendations in the report of the Joint Committee and, secondly, to outline what I thought was a serious state of affairs which existed in Queensland. If people keep trying to defend the Queensland Premier and keep trying to suggest that I have put forward wrong arguments or wrong information, I will continue to speak against them, and that will continue to receive coverage by the media. Last night I pointed out that I did not believe or did not even contemplate that favourable treatment had been given to Nema. This is what I said last night: 
Let me stress that I do not allege that Nema has been given favourable treatment because of its association with  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  I make no claim that Nema has not won its contracts on its own merits. I certainly have seen no evidence to suggest that this is so. What I am stressing is that a conflict of interest exists with the political leader in the State of Queensland. Indeed, the Queensland Premier's conflict of interest in this case is plain and indisputable. 
If debate on this conflict of interest continues, I shall continue to come before this place and I shall be able to put forward the exact number of shares that I have been able to uncover that this man holds. Perhaps there are many more. The companies are so intertwined that it is very difficult to understand the position. I stress that the matters which I presented last night are correct. I am able to back them up. I am so sure of the facts that, if necessary, I will repeat them outside this Parliament. If people continue to defend the Premier because of what I say, I will continue to repeat these statements. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Transport studied the report prepared by the United States National Transportation Safety Board relating to the susceptibility of some aircraft to damage by birds. If so, what action has been taken as a result of the study. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When an employer has been granted an extension of time to issue group certificates what onus, if any, is placed on the employer to notify employees that an extension of time has been granted. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What money has been made available to Queensland under grants for technical and further education for the 1975-76 financial year? 
How much of this Technical and Further Education Commission money has been directed to adult education in Queensland in the last financial year? 
3 ) What proportion of the total expenditure on adult education in Queensland came from the Commission? 
Has the Commission any policy on the merging of the Technical Education Branch of the Department of Education in Queensland with Queensland's Board of Adult Education? 
In the event of any competition between the Queensland Technical Education Branch and the Queensland Board of Adult Education to provide adult education in Queensland, which body will receive financial assistance from the Australian Government for providing adult education in Queensland? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What was the Department of Social Security Field Office establishment for each State, at the end of each month from 30 June 1 975 to 3 1 August 1 976. . 
-Is the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs aware that in the  Courier-Mail  of 28 September 1976 the  President  of the Queensland Local Government Association and Stanthorpe Shire  Chairman,  Councillor Rogers, was reported to have warned that Australian local governments may boycott the proposed new Advisory Council for InterGovernment Relations if their representation on that council is limited to 3 members? In the light of the Queensland Government's refusal to take part in the Council if local government representation remains at the current proposed level of six, simply because of claims that local government is overrepresented, will the Minister assure the Senate that the Federal Government has no intention of giving in to the Queensland Government's unreasonable demands and that local government will continue to hold six of the 19 positions on the Council? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that a severe outbreak of rabies has recently swept western Europe. If so, what precautions have been taken to ensure that there is no outbreak of rabies in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many persons were prosecuted for improperly obtaining unemployment benefit in Queensland for each calendar month since July 1 970. 
-Did the Minister for Science, when opening the new Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation Standards Laboratory on 8 October, claim that unemployment benefits were helping to erode the work ethic, as he was quoted as saying in the Melbourne  Age  of 9 October 1976? Can the Minister's statement be taken to mean that he is opposed to the payment of unemployment benefit in Australia in all cases? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to a situation, which I believe will become evident at the end of this year, in which a student leaving school at the end of this year will not be able to receive any unemployment benefit, if he or she is unable to find work, until the 1977 school year begins. In those cases where that situation occurs with a student 16 years of age or older, will that student's family allowance continue to be paid until the school leaver becomes eligible for the unemployment benefit? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What was the value of philatelic sales for each financial year from 1965-66 to 1975-76. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
Is the Commonwealth Government providing financial assistance to the Queensland Government by way of loan to help finance the construction of a thermal power station at Gladstone in central Queensland. If so, (a) what is the ratio of Commonwealth funds to State funds which are being used to finance the project; (b) what was the original agreed price for the supply of electricity for the Comalco smelter at Gladstone: (c) what is the new formula and unit rate that the Queensland Government has now agreed to supply electricity for the Comalco smelter at Gladstone; and (d ) what is the anticipated cost of supplying power from Gladstone power station to other bulk supply consumers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
What funds have been allocated by the Australian Government to the State of Queensland for sewerage backlog programs in each financial year since 1 969-70. 
What funds have been allocated by the Australian Government to the State of Queensland for sewerage backlog programs for 1976-77. 
Which local councils in Queensland will have to postpone sewerage construction works to which they are already committed for 1976-77, as a result of the cutback in funds allocated for sewerage backlog in the 1976 Federal Budget. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Which State Governments have so far established a State Grants Commission under the Federal Government's new federalism system. 
On what basis will the respective Grants Commissions distribute funds. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Have austerity measures within the Department of Defence caused shortages of about 300 items of ammunition and equipment normally readily available, as is suggested in an article in the  Sunday Telegraph  dated 22 August 1976. II so, what effect are these shortages having on the defence preparedness and functioning of (a) the Australian Army, (b) the Royal Australian Navy, and (c) the Royal Australian Ait Force. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many positions are involved in the advertisement placed by the Manager, Personnel, of Medibank in the  Courier-Mail  dated 17 July 1976, and headed 'Medibank Representatives-$9,789 to $ 10,737 per annum'. 
Have similar advertisements appeared in newspapers in other States. If so, how many positions are involved in each State. 
What are the terms and conditions of the position of Medibank Representatives', and what function will these positions serve. 
What is the estimated total cost of placing the people in the Medibank establishment, including (a) salary and entitlements, (b) office space and equipment, (c) travel, (d) training, and (e ) sundry expenditure items. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) How many copies of  Stamp Preview  were mailed in the financial year 1975-76. 
For these copies, what were (a) the cost of production, and (b) the mail handling costs. 
-Is the Minister for Science aware of the recently drafted Statement of Affirmation of Freedom of Inquiry and Expression by the United States National Academy of Sciences? Is the Minister also aware that members of the United States National Academy of Sciences have urged their scientific colleagues around the world to join them in signing the statement? In the light of information that I have received, that the attention of the  chairman  and the members of the executive of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has recently been drawn to this document, I ask: Will the Minister ascertain whether they have signed or intend to sign the statement and notify the Senate accordingly, bearing in mind that a failure to sign the statement could adversely reflect on the CSIRO and jeopardise joint United States-Australian scientific research projects? 
-The Leader of the Government in the Senate may remember my placing on the notice paper earlier this year a question relating to the possibility of Ministers from the House of Representatives being invited to this chamber from time to time to answer questions without notice. In the light of the Minister's reply on 27 April, in which he said that he would raise the matter with the Prime Minister to see whether anything could reasonably be done to overcome the deficiencies of the present practice, I ask whether the Leader of the Government has discussed this subject with the Prime Minister. If so, what was the outcome of the discussion? 
I support the comments made by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. Although I do not oppose this Bill, I think it is necessary to comment on the Bill itself and on some of the occurrences which have taken place recently which may affect the outcome of this legislation after it has been passed. Let me say at the outset that I think this Bill shows, perhaps for the first time, that the Liberal Party and the National Country Party in this chamber have given some recognition to local government in Australia 's federal system. That recognition is in this Bill, but I think it is probably somewhat incidental to the purpose of the Bill itself. Nevertheless, we do see in this Bill that local government has been given a real place in the 3-tier system of government that we have in Australia. This Bill apparently is part of the Government's so-called new federalism. New federalism, by the way, is probably an old federalism that has been brought back. It seems clear to me that the new federalism proposals that are propounded by the Government are not wanted by the majority of people. There has been only one election in which this policy was specifically in issue and that was the New South Wales State election in May. It was a real issue then and the people rejected the proposal of new federalism and elected the Labor Party to office in that State. But it was not only the electors in New South Wales who rejected this concept of new federalism. 
I would like to quote from a statement on this very issue by a Councillor Rogers, President of the Queensland Local Government Association. On 3 September the statement by Councillor Rogers was reported in the  Cairns Post.  I think it is relevant to quote from that article headed 'OLGA chairman not happy with the federalism policies'. The article in part read: 
The Government's new federalism policies could have a serious financial effect on Local Government, the  president  of the Queensland Local Government Association, Cr F. E. Rogers, warned yesterday. 
Cr Rogers told delegates at the association's annual conference in Cairns he believed in the long term local government could find itself in a worst financial situation than the past two years. 
He said: 'I do not think any thinking person would deny that the former Whitlam Government introduced many programs which were beneficial to the Australian community -many of them probably long overdue particularly in the areas of social reform. 
It appeared that, under the Whitlam Government, local government started to make some headway.' 
While there was a tremendous amount of confusion and overlapping and all local government was not given the opportunity to participate in some specific purpose programs, at least local government was receiving forms of relief not previously available to it, ' Cr Rogers said. 
He is concerned at the over-zealous attitude of the Fraser Government in their efforts to dismantle so many of the worthwhile reforms introduced by the Labor Government. 
I received something today which suggests to me that Councillor Rogers may have a point. Today I received an answer to a question that I placed on notice some time ago. I had asked what funds had been allocated by the Australian Government to the State of Queensland for sewerage backlog programs in each financial year since 1969-70 and what funds had been allocated by the Australian Government to the State of Queensland for sewerage backlog programs for this financial year. I also asked which local councils in Queensland would have to postpone sewerage construction works to which they were already committed for 1 976-77. 
The answer to the questions shows that until 1973-74 there was no financial assistance for sewerage backlog programs. In 1973-74 there was $2m; in 1974-75, $13.7m; in 1975-76, $ 13.2m; and for this financial year there was $lm. Part of the reply that I received today said that it is not likely that any reduction need occur- that is, reduction in sewerage construction programs- due to the additional $I0.2m made available to local authorities in Queensland under the Commonwealth's unconditional general revenue grants scheme. It is quite true that an extra $ 10.2m was made available to Queensland this year under the Commonwealth's unconditional general revenue grants scheme. I must admit that since receiving that answer I have not had the opportunity to examine it fully to see whether in fact that $ 10.2m will make all that much difference. Indeed, the amount of $ 10.2m together with the $lm that has been provided this year for the sewerage backlog programs will not reach the amount allocated in the previous financial year. 
In the Budget papers I notice that an increase was given to local government throughout Australia for general purpose assistance. This was the particular item that was mentioned in the answer to the  question  that I put on notice. In fact in 1975-76 $79.9m was allowed for general purpose assistance for local government. The estimate for this year is $140m which is quite an increase, but when we look at the other items for which grants have been made to local governments through, I presume, the States, we find that direct payments last year were $109m. This year they are $17m, which is quite a dramatic drop; and for other payments through the States $82. 9m was allocated last financial year. In this financial year, that $82.9m has been reduced to $35.7m. Overall, the table shows that $274m was made in payments to or for local government authorities last year and this year the amount of $195m was allocated. It seems to me that perhaps that extra $10. 2m payable to Queensland will have to take up some of the slack that will be evident because of lesser payments in those other categories. As I said earlier, I have not had the opportunity since receiving an answer to my question this afternoon to go through in detail what has happened in 
Queensland. It seems to me that there is some point to what Councillor Rogers said. 
With regard to the Advisory Council for InterGovernment Relations, there is already ample machinery for Commonwealth-State dialogue through the Premiers Conference and the Loan Council. The Constitution provides for the InterState Commission which, if operating, would be a further forum for consultation between the Commonwealth and the States. The main weakness which has occurred in consultation has occurred with local governments, the governments closest to the people and the governments which, traditionally and unfortunately, have been starved for funds. It seems to me that it would be difficult to expect that if the Constitution was being framed nowadays there would still be no reference to local government in that Constitution. I suspect that because there has been no mention of local government in the Constitution it has become a very poor relation in Australian government. 
This Bill finally gives some recognition to local government but local government will still retain its role as a serf. It is very much tied to the States. Further the provisions of this Bill still very much tie local government to the States.Clauses 4 and 5 of the Bill outline how matters will be referred to the Council from the Premiers Conference or by a majority of the 7 governments in Australia. Local governments themselves will still have to go through their State Premier, as is outlined in the second reading speech, if they want something to be brought before the Council. Thus local governments have 2 hurdles to face. Firstly, they have to convince their State Premier and, secondly, he has to convince the other Premiers at the Premiers Conference. This aspect of the Bill, I think, could have dire consequences for local government in Queensland. 1 say this because of the peculiar situation which has arisen in Queensland over the establishment of this Council. It has already been mentioned that a recent suggestion has been made that the Queensland Government will not participate in this Council. This should not be surprising if one has read the transcript from the Premiers Conference last April. I should like to relate to the Senate some of the remarks made by  Mr Bjelke-Peterson  last April. Certain of his remarks have already been quoted by  Senator Douglas  McClelland but I should like to refer to them more extensively. At that Premiers Conference  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  said: 
I think that I was the only one who opposed the setting up of this Advisory Council last time because I was afraid that we would reach a situation where local authority would want  to go direct to the Advisory Council rather than to the Minister for Local Government in the State. That has already happened in Queensland. I have received a letter from the Lord Mayor in a capital city saying that he wants a particular matter to be decided not by the Minister for Local Government but by this Advisory Council. I am deeply concerned that we will reach a situation where these matters will be taken out of the hands of governments and direct to the AdvisoryCouncil. 
It is apparent that the Premier must have been worried that he would lose his traditional domination over local government. Now that there will be 6 representatives for local authorities, the Premier will not have anything to do with the Council. It seems to me that it is most logical that we should have 6 representatives from local authorities. It would be most awkward to select fewer than six when we have 6 State areas from which representatives can come. The Queensland Government did not want to consult on this matter but it came out and directly attacked the Federal Government on the proposal. I should like to refer to a report which appeared in the  Courier-Mail  on 25 September in which the Premier and his Deputy attacked the Federal Government. Part of that report stated: 
The National Party Premier  (Mr Bjelke-Petersen)  and the Liberal  Deputy  Premier  (Mr Knox)  joined yesterday in an attack on the Federal Government. The Queensland Premier and  Deputy  Premier said the Federal Government had fumbled' over the proposed formation of a new Council for Inter-governmental Relations . . . Queensland's objections are that the Federal Government 'broke' a Premiers Conference agreement and that under the new proposal, local government would have the same total representation on the council (six) as the State Governments. 
The joint statement by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and  Mr Knox  said: 'Queensland will not recognise the new council. The Federal Government has unilaterally changed the terms of an agreement made at the last Premiers Conference. Queensland therefore regards that agreement as null and void. Even if the council is established, Queensland will not appoint representatives to it, will not contribute to its upkeep, and will ignore its deliberations and recommendations. Queensland will participate only on the original terms, which include three representatives of local government instead of the six now proposed by the Commonwealth. 
Further on the article read: 
Unless the Federal Government reverts to the agreed number of representatives on the council, Queensland will:  Inform the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives and the  President  of the Senate that the legislation introduced by the Prime Minister does not have Queensland's consent or agreement when Members and Senators come to debate the second reading, reserve the right to take any other appropriate action, to include if necessary action through the Queensland Parliament'. 
It seems to me to be rather unfortunate that this has happened. After all the Council is being set up so that there can be dialogue between the 3 tiers of government. I wonder where this will lead local government in Queensland. I suggested earlier that local government had to get over 2 hurdles to get its proposals before the Advisory Council. If Queensland does not participate it appears to me that local government in that State will not even be able to get over the first hurdle and will not get its proposals before the Council. 
There is also the question of what will happen with regard to the cost of the Council. It seems from the statement by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and  Mr Knox  that Queensland 's share of the cost of the Council will not be paid. I think I read somewhere of a cost of $21,500 for Queensland. Given the promise of the Council it is imperative that Queensland should participate. I urge the Government to use its persuasive powers on  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and his Government so that it will participate in the Council when it is formed. I can see a grave danger for the Council itself if Queensland does not take part. If Queensland does not participate the Advisory Council for Inter-government Relations may never get off the ground. Clause 8(5) shows why. In part it reads:  the Council shall not commence to perform its functions until its membership consists of not less than 12 members and includes not less than 4 members each of whom is appointed on the nomination of the Premier of a State. 
If Queensland opts out and by some means persuades 2 other States to opt out, the Council will not get off the ground because there will not be 4 members each of whom was appointed on the nomination of a Premier of a State. 
It was mentioned in the second reading speech that the United States Advisory Commission on Inter-governmental Relations has been taken as a model for the body which this Bill will establish. I am not convinced by the statement in the second reading speech which reads: 
The Commission is a successful and highly respected body which has done much to improve the American Federation. 
I do not question that it is a respected body. It certainly has published many reports, but what influence it has had in the United States of America is doubtful. I am fearful that unless there is a genuine spirit of co-operation the Advisory Council for Inter-government Relations will have little influence. There must be this cooperation because if various governments decide to adopt a belligerent attitude the Council will not get off the ground in the way it is intended. I can see that the Council has much promise. 
This spirit of co-operation does not exist now. On 30 September it was reported, again in the 
Queensland Press, that the Queensland Government was taking a stance which displayed anything but a spirit of co-operation. The report in that newspaper read, in pan: 
The Queensland Government is considering asking other States to form a joint States' committee to watch the FraserAnthony Federal Government for any infringement of States' rights . . . The proposal was made by  Mr Porter  (Lib., Toowong). The Premier  (Mr Bjelke-Petersen)  and the  Deputy  Premier  (Mr Knox)  agreed to consider it. 
Later on the article said: 

 Mr Knox sought and received support in the Parliamentary Liberal Party meeting early yesterday for an expected battle with the Federal Government over various issues. Government members said that with a proposed reduction in Federal income tax next year, the States could receive less money and be expected to impose their own income tax. 
Again I think it is unfortunate that the State Government takes this attitude. The proposed Advisory Council for Inter-government Relations would be an excellent forum for the Queensland Government to bring its problems to if it thought any aspects of Federal Government legislation or Federal Government behaviour were not conducive to good government in Australia in the sense that Federal Government action was cutting across matters which the State thought that it should control. 
I must admit that I find this Government's new found concern for local government a little perplexing. I can vividly recall the campaign for the 1 974 referendum proposal that local governments be given the right to participate in Loan Council meetings. The referendum proposal was opposed by Liberal and National Country Party members in the House of Representatives and senators in this House, and they opposed it again in the campaign. Despite the campaign the referendum was carried in the largest State, New South Wales. Throughout Australia, despite the concerted campaign, 47 per cent of the people voted for the referendum proposal. If this Government is showing a genuine desire to recognise local government I applaud its approach. The Bill itself, of course, will do nothing to alter the disabilities from which local government has suffered since Federation. The reasonable autonomy, reasonable financial independence and reasonable access of local government to the Federal resources of this nation still need to be guaranteed. I hope that this Bill is a harbinger of better things to come for local government in Australia. In that respect I support the Bill. 

 Senator Colston to table the full text of the article from which he quoted. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)- Senator Martin,  if you require the article to be tabled you should move that the document referred to be tabled. 
That the document referred to by  Senator Colston  be tabled. 
Is it acceptable for me at this stage to ask that the whole of the document be incorporated in  Hansard!  I quoted all but 2 paragraphs. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator Colston, I take it that the matter which you want incorporated in  Hansard  is an extract from a newspaper and that it is quite capable of being produced in  Hansard. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Thank you. I was seeking to ascertain whether the material is capable of reproduction in  Hansard.  Leave is sought for the incorporation of certain material in  Hansard.  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

The Government's new federalism policies could have a serious financial effect on Local Government, the  president  of the Queensland Local Government Association, Cr F. E. Rogers, warned yesterday. 

 Cr Rogers told delegates at the association's annual conference in Cairns he believed in the long term local government could find itself in a worse financial situation than the past two years. 
He said: 'I do not think any thinking person would deny that the former Whitlam Government introduced many programs which were beneficial to the Australian community many of them probably long overdue particularly in the areas of social reform. 
It appeared that, under the Whitlam Government, local government started to make some headway. 
While there was a tremendous amount of confusion and overlapping and all local government was not given the opportunity to participate in some specific purpose programs, at least local government was receiving forms of relief not previously available to it, ' Cr Rogers said. 
He is concerned at the over-zealous attitude of the Fraser Government in their efforts to dismantle so many of the worthwhile reforms introduced by the Labor Government. 
Dearth lt was significant and ominous that there has been a complete dearth of comment from the politicians since the magnanimous announcement that local government would receive $ 1 40m, 75 per cent more than last year. 
I seriously suggest that the $140m will not be 75 per cent more than local government received from Commonwealth sources last year, but only some 40 per cent of the $343m provided for in last year 's budget. ' Cr Rogers said. 
Motion- by leave- withdrawn. 
I rise this evening with a rather unusual request- a request to Ministers in this place and in the other place, in particular to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers),  the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard),  the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  to provide answers to 2 1 questions that I have placed on notice in relation to Cedar Bay. I say that it is an unusual request because it is the first time that I have made such a request and I think that it will probably be the last. I ask that these answers be relayed to me as soon as possible. 
I do not wish to debate the matter of Cedar Bay or the questions at this stage although I am hopeful that there will be a Senate debate on this matter in the near future. I would like to outline why I think these questions which I have placed on notice should be given speedy replies. I believe that we need to be provided with the full facts of the Commonwealth involvement in the Cedar Bay raid because of the reported imminent release of a police report on 2 complaints lodged at the Cairns police station in Queensland. Unfortunately, the refusal of the Queensland Government to launch an inquiry into very serious allegations about the Cedar Bay affair has not been reported fully outside Queensland. I believe that all Australians should be aware of the real threat to civil liberties in Queensland under the present Government. 
I would like to recap briefly for the benefit of the Senate the events that occurred at Cedar Bay. Most honourable senators will remember that on 29 August there was a raid on the quiet community of Cedar Bay. Some Commonwealth participation was involved in that raid. At this stage it is not known quite what that participation was, but some of the questions to which I referred earlier seek information on that participation. After the event, the first time that the raid was mentioned in this place was when  Senator Keeffe  spoke during the adjournment debate on 7 September. On the following day, 8 September,  Mr Keith  Wright, a member of the Queensland Parliament, spoke on the matter in that Parliament. The next time that anything of note occurred with regard to Cedar Bay was when convictions of those arrested during the Cedar Bay raid were nullified by the Queensland Attorney-General,  Mr Lickiss,  on 9 September.  Mr Lickiss  found that the court which had tried these people who were arrested at the time was not a properly constituted court, and the convictions had to be set aside. 
In the next few weeks calls for an inquiry came from all sections of the Queensland community. Perhaps I could give to the Senate some indication of the sorts of organisations that called for an inquiry. They included the  President  of the Law Society in Queensland, the  President  of the Queensland Bar Association, and the  President  of the Young Liberals. Amongst those who called for an inquiry were 21 medical practitioners in Cairns, as did the newspaper the  Australian  and the  President  of the Victorian Council for Civil Liberties. I could go on giving the names of people in Queensland and, indeed, from other parts of Australia who called for an inquiry into what happened at Cedar Bay. But the calls for an inquiry went principally to  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  who refused to consider those calls. Indeed, what  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  said was probably predictable but was very unfortunate. A Queensland newspaper reported  Mr BjelkePetersen  's response to those calls for an inquiry in an article which reads as follows: 
Queensland Premier,  Mr Joh  Bjelke-Petersen, yesterday accused Cedar Bay hippies of having manufactured evidence after the controversial police raid there. 
He said: 'The Government will believe the police. ' 
Earlier  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  had been reported as having said he would not hold an investigation into the Cedar Bay raid unless there was substantial evidence to warrant it. 
Sunday Sun asked  Mr Bjelke-Peterson  whether published affidavits, TV films screened during the week and last week 's Sunday Sun exclusive report would constitute 'substantial evidence'. 
The Premier said: 'I haven't seen any evidence that would warrant an inquiry. This is all part of an orchestrated campaign to legalise marihuana and denigrate the police . . .' 

 His reply went on in a similar vein. In the last pan of his reply  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  said: 
The Queensland Opposition Leader  Mr Burns  is spearheading an attack on the police. As usual when police act to uphold the law, the cry comes from the Opposition, "Police brutality", ' he said. 
The same names keep cropping up-  Dr Paul  Wilson, the Reverend Noel Preston, the Council ibr Civil Liberties- and the ALP, 'he said. 
I would just like to say that  Dr Paul  Wilson is a respected academic at the University of Queensland; he has a readership in sociology. The Reverend Noel Preston has a doctorate in divinity. It is interesting to compare  Mr BjelkePetersen's  response to the response of  Mr Wran  when there was a raid at a place called Tuntable in New South Wales.  Mr Wran  almost immediately called for a report on that raid. I say, perhaps with some awkwardness, that I was disturbed at the response I received from  Senator Withers  to a question I asked in this place on 14 September. I asked the question because I was genuinely seeking some information. As a mark of the fact that I was genuine, I notified the Minister some days before of my intention to ask the question, but when I asked the question, as most honourable senators will remember, not only was no answer given but also the Minister's response was to denigrate me for asking the question, as well as for some other matter. Since I could not get any information I decided that I would place on the Senate notice paper some questions covering certain aspects of the raid. I did that so that I could get information. On 2 1 September I asked 6 questions in relation to the raid, 2 questions on 23 September, 3 further questions on 5 October, 8 more questions on 6 October, and finally I asked 2 further questions on 12 October. The questions I asked were concerned with the raid at Cedar Bay and requested information from the Government. 
I was mentioning in chronological order some aspects of the Cedar Bay affair. I mention now that some residents of Cedar Bay, in company with their solicitor, eventually lodged formal complaints on 30 September to the Cairns police. I seek leave of the Senate to incorporate in  Hansard  the actual complaints that these 2 persons lodged with the police. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The complaints read as follows- 

Commissioner of Police Brisbane 
I Janice Lauren Lambert of Cedar Bay in the State of Qld make complaint as follows: 
Complaint: 
That on the 29th August 1976 certain baby clothes belonging to my young infant were wilfully burnt by an unknown police officer. These clothes were positioned inside a trunk which was situated in the house owned by Michael Steven Ballister in the area known as the North Camp of Cedar Bay. 
Facts forming the basis of complaint. 
On the morning of Sunday 29th Aug 1976, 1 was aware of the presence of a number of people who landed at Cedar Bay from a launch anchored slightly off-shore. I was informed that these people were police officers but I was unable to identify any (other than those known to me) as such, as none wore uniforms or produced any sort of identity card. While I was talking to a policeman I knew as Bevan in the area of my dwelling at that pan of Cedar Bay known as Harry Dick 's, I was approached by Leigh Riley, one of the commune members. Leigh Riley informed me (in the presence and hearing of police officer Bevan) that some police had poured kerosene over the baby's clothes in a trunk at Ballisters' house and had set fire to the clothes. 
On being told of this myself, Mick Lennon and Leigh Riley walked to the north end to find out what was happening. On the way to the north camp I came across about 7 or 8 of the north camp people being held in custody and handcuffed by a number of police in a clearing immediately adjacent to the beach and about 400 yards from the actual position of the north camp. 
I was told by one of these people being held in the clearing that her house and the houses of others in the north camp had been burnt by police while the north camp people had been held in the clearing. 
I later inspected the contents of the trunk situated in Ballister's house. I noticed that a number of items of baby clothes in the trunk were either completely destroyed or badly charred by the effects of smoke. 
From what I was told by Leigh Riley (in the hearing of police officer Bevan) and from what I was later told by other members of the commune, I believed that the destruction of my baby's clothes was caused by the action of one or more of the police officers who were present at Cedar Bay on the morning of Sunday 29th Aug 1 976. 
I request that the contents of this complaint be transmitted to the Commissioner of Police at Brisbane for his investigation. 
Commissioner of Police Brisbane 
I Michael Steven Ballister of Cedar Bay in the State of Qld make complaint as follows: 
Complaint. 
On the morning of 29th August 1 976 I was a resident of an area known as the north camp of Cedar Bay. My dwelling in the north camp was within the boundaries of a perpetual homestead lease held by William Yale Evans. On that day my house and various items in it were destroyed by fire started by unknown police officers who had entered the Cedar Bay area earlier that morning. As well, various plants and trees which formed the basis of mine and others food supply in the north camp area were destroyed by the actions of one or more unidentified police officers. 
Facts forming basis of complaint. 
Prior to the arrival of the police in the Cedar Bay on 29th Aug 1 976, the north camp area where I lived consisted of a main kitchen structure, and a dwelling occupied by Axle Campbell. There were a large number of pawpaw trees, banana trees and various cultivated vegetables patches in the area of the north camp. 
I was present in the north camp area when it was visited by police on that morning. When I left the north camp I noticed that everything in it was in order. I noticed that the various structures were standing and unburnt and that none of the above described vegetation was damaged. After the police had left Cedar Bay on the day of 29th August 1976 I returned to the north camp area. As I walked in to the clearing of the north camp area, I noticed all the pawpaw trees had been chopped well below the fruit bearing area and I also observed a number of tomatoes in the vegetable garden had been destroyed. 
I walked out through the kitchen and noticed on my way that the irrigation hose which ran from the 44 gallon drum on the edge of the creek to the bottom part of the garden had been chopped into many pieces. When I reached the kitchen, the only visible thing was a smouldering mass of mess. My observation of the kitchen was that the fireplace which had been in operation prior to the visit of the police was untouched by the destruction which had occured. In the immediate vicinity of the fire place was the only area of kitchen which was unburnt I noticed that large amounts of food had been emptied on the floor of the kitchen that had been stacked with a number of miscellaneous items such as tools. I rescued certain items from this pile and I then went to examine the state of the house which I and Charlie shared. 
When I arrived at our house I noticed that the entirety of my personal possessions in the upstairs area of the house had been completely burnt. I also noticed that a kerosene lamp which I had formerly positioned was not there. It did not appear to be among the burnt items. The six main sUpport posts of my house was still standing and the supports were still smouldering at the time. I noticed that a trunk of baby clothes contained items that were still half charred and my examination of the trunk caused  me to  think that someone had poured water in it. I recalled being told by someone prior to my visit to the north camp at this time that the baby trunk was the first thing that had been fired by the police. 
I then visited Axle Campbell's house and noticed that there was no roof left on his 'two storey structure and I noticed that the mango tree under which his house was built had been completely burnt thus destroying the entirety of the season's fruit. I also noticed that one of the corner posts of his house had apparently been chopped about 6 inches from the ground. Then I observed a leather jacket, which I knew belonged to Axle, lying in the burnt remains of his house. This coat had been half burnt on my visit. As well as the various items of pawpaw and banana trees being chopped off, I also observed many of the pineapple growth which we had in the garden area of the north camp had been slashed. While I was aware of the presence of the police in Cedar Bay on that morning I heard scattered and continual gunfire from various areas. I request that the contents of this complaint be transmitted to the Commissioner of Police at Brisbane for his investigation. 
-The 2 complaints which were lodged with the Cairns police eventually prompted statements from the Queensland Council for Civil Liberties. I have here a letter dated 15 October 1976 which has been sent today to all members of the Queensland State Parliament. I shall read it to the Senate: 
Queensland Council for Civil Liberties, Post Office Box 43, University, St Lucia. 
POLICE INQUIRIES 
The Queensland Council for Civil Liberties wishes to draw your attention to the threat to civil liberties and the rule of law repesented by a recent Cabinet decision to over-rule the decision by the Commissioner of Police and the then Minister to hold an inquiry into certain police actions on the occasion of a student protest march on 29 July 1 976. 
In a democracy which respects the rights of individuals and the rule of law it is vital that there should be no suggestion that political pressures can be used to influence the conduct of the police. The police must be free to carry out the law impartially, treating all citizens equally. Where there is any complaint of improper conduct, the Police Act empowers the Police Commissioner, subject to the Minister, to decide whether an inquiry should be held. 
Improper conduct might take many forms. It might involve arbitrary arrest or the use of undue force. It might consist of a failure to lay charges or the taking of bribes. 
There are numerous possibilities. Once the decision to investigate or inquire into such matters becomes subject to political influence, great possibilities of injustice appear. An inquiry into whether charges should have been laid could be frustrated if the person against whom the charges might have been laid has political influence. On the other hand, a citizen who is harassed by the police may be denied justice because those who disagree with him have sufficient political influence to prevent an inquiry. 
It is a recognised principle of our democratic way of life that Judges and Magistrates should be independent and free from political pressures. The police have wide powers and discretions and should similarly be above suspicion It is very difficult for the ordinary citizen to defend himself against the occasional policeman who exercises his powers arbitrarily or maliciously. In most cases the circumstances are often not such that it is possible to press charges in the courts, and the citizen's only redress is to complain to the Commissioner. The law assumes that the Commissioner will act impartially and on the facts in deciding whether to hold an inquiry. 
We submit that it is a most dangerous precedent for such decisions to be taken out of the hands of the Commissioner into Cabinet where there must inevitably be a suspicion that political considerations will be influential. In the case in question ordinary citizens were deprived of an avenue of redress by persons other than those to whom law entrusts such decisions. 
Confirmation of this serious encroachment on the discretionary powers of the Police Commissioner is to be found in the fact that the Commissioner announced that the Premier had approved investigation of the complaints laid by the two Cedar Bay residents. Nothing in the Police Act suggests that such a routine decision requires the Premier's approval, and the fact that such approval was sought demonstrates the extent to which the Police Commissioner's independence on matters of routine police administration has been abridged. 
Political control of the Police is quite incompatible with our type of democracy. It is a characteristic of totalitarian and repressive regimes. We do not suggest that the present Queensland Government intends to use the Police for political purposes. Nevertheless, the Council feels compelled to bring to the attention of Members of Parliament that dangerous precedents have been set which would be used by a future government to justify the use of the police for political purposes and to protect them from the consequences of unlawful conduct. 
Yours sincerely, 
D.O.FIELDING, 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Has the Queensland Government made an official submission to the Federal Government concerning the cutback in funds available for sewerage works made available to the State of Queensland in the 1976-77 Budget. If so, (a) what additional funds have been requested by the Queensland Government; (b) when is it likely that a decision regarding the submission will be forthcoming from the Federal Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
In view of the fact that large sections of the Hay report appeared in an article by Anthony Hill in the  Financial Review  dated 15 August 1976, will the Minister agree to release the entire report so that the Parliament and the community can gain a balanced view of its contents and recommendations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What Federal Government assistance has been provided to Aboriginal communities in the Camooweal, St George and Cunnamulla regions of Queensland since 1 July 1970. 
Is the Minister aware of criticisms made by  Senator Bonner,  and reported in the  Courier-Mail  dated 6 August 1976, relating to accommodation for Aborigines at Camooweal. If so, does the Department of Aboriginal Affairs plan to provide any special assistance to alleviate any housing problems that may exist and has the Queensland Government officially requested the Department to provide additional aid. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What direct Australian Government assistance has been provided to each Aboriginal reserve in Queensland since December 1972. 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I claim to have been misrepresented. I was misrepresented in the Queensland edition of the  Australian  and in the  Courier Mail.  The  Australian  of 7 October 1976 and the  Courier Mail  of 8 October 1976 carried identical advertisements headed: Nema Holdings Limited. They were authorised by W. A. Stockwell, Managing Director, Nema Holdings Ltd. I would like to read the advertisements, in part, to show where I was misrepresented. The advertisements read: 
The Company has been named on several occasions in recent months in relation to a purported indirect shareholding in the Company by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen. 
The most recent mention came from  Senator Colston  in a speech in the Senate on Sth October. 
In his speech and in various pamphlets, articles and broadcasts it has been claimed or inferred that the company and its construction subsidiary have received favoured treatment in the allocation of State Government Contracts. 
These accusations are false 
I claim to have been misrepresented by the part which says: 
In his speech- 
That is my speech -  it has been claimed or inferred that the company and its construction subsidiary have received favoured treatment in the allocation of State Government contracts. 
I say to the Senate that at no time did I state that Nema had been given favoured treatment. Indeed I went out of my way to stress that I was making no such claim. I repeat what I said in the Senate on that night: 
Let me stress that I do not allege that Nema has been given favourable treatment because of its association with  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  I make no claim that Nema has not won its contracts on its own merits. I certainly have seen no evidence to suggest that this is so. 
I do not know what Nema was up to in placing an advertisement containing this grossly libellous statement. Perhaps it was camouflage to the main thrust of what I was saying about Nema that night, namely, the Premier's conflict of interest. I followed that quotation from my speech with a sentence which read: 
What I am stressing is that a conflict of interest exists with the political leader in the State of Queensland. 
I also seek the indulgence of the Senate to correct another misrepresentation that has occurred more recently. I refer to an article in the  Courier Mail  of Friday, 15 October. That article is headed 'Firm gets State contract' and in part reads: 
The construction subsidiary of Nema Holdings, a company involved in controversy in the Senate last week, has been granted another State Government contract. 
It was alleged in the Senate that the Premier  (Mr BjelkePetersen)  had an indirect shareholding in Nema through another company. 
Nema denied any association with the Premier. 

 Senator Colston (Labor, Queensland) said State contracts were being granted to Nema. 
The article went on to say that additional contracts were given. That article is incorrect where it says 'Nema denied any association with the Premier'. In the advertisement, which I quoted earlier, Nema set out the Premier's association. Regarding that advertisement by Nema, I would expect the company to correct publicly the gross libel which it presented on 7-8 October. 
I support the motion moved by my colleague from Queensland,  Senator Keeffe,  which states. 
That in the opinion of the Senate the following is a matter of urgency: 
The erosion of civil liberties in Australia with particular reference to recent events in Queensland. 
Before I outline some of my arguments in support of this motion I wish to deal with some of the statements made by previous speakers. In particular, I refer to a phrase which  Senator Durack  used. He said that he was amused to see this matter raised in the Senate. I do not see anything amusing about raising in the national Parliament matters regarding civil liberties. He also said that we in the Australian Labor Party have hang-ups about the Premier. This is interesting. In tonight's Brisbane  Telegraph  there is an article headed 'Federal Moves to Gag Joh' by Ian Miller. It reads: 
The Federal Liberal and National Country Parties moved to muzzle the Queensland Premier  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  At a meeting in Canberra on Monday the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  and the National Country Party Leader,  Mr Anthony,  expressed concern at statements by  Mr BjelkePetersen  attacking the Federal Government. 
It is amusing at the least to say that we have hang-ups about the Premier of Queensland when articles such as that appear in the Brisbane newspapers.  Senator Durack  said words to the effect that it was astounding to speak about the lack of freedom of speech in Queensland. If he needs any confirmation of a lack of freedom of speech in Queensland I refer him to a book, by one of the lesser known authors in Australia but a well respected author, called  The Odd One Out. 
-I wrote it. In that book there is an excellent account of what happened when I tried to avail myself of the right of freedom of speech in Queensland. I was virtually discriminated against by the Queensland Government. 
There is a copy in the Library, if you would like to read it. I refer now to some aspects of  Senator Tehan  's arguments. He said that the Queensland Opposition had abdicated its functions in the State chamber. It would have been better if  Senator Tehan  had checked whether his information was correct before he said that. It is quite incorrect. I point out that there were moves by the Liberal and National parties in Queensland to have an inquiry into the Cedar Bay incident. I am not talking only of Cedar Bay tonight, but I mention it as one aspect in respect of which certain members of the Liberal and National parties in Queensland moved to have an inquiry. In the  Courier Mail  of 16 September there was an article which referred to a move at a joint party meeting. Specifically, it was moved by  Mr Hewitt  and seconded by  Mr Lamont  that there be an inquiry into the Cedar Bay incident. In the  Courier Mail  of 29 September there was an article which stated: 
The Liberal Party State Executive yesterday called unanimously' for a judicial inquiry into police administration and operations. 
Not only did the Queensland Opposition not abdicate its functions in the State chamber, but certain members of the Liberal and National parties called for an inquiry into what happened in Queensland.  Senator Tehan  also referred to Mount Larcom. The situation is not as simple as  Senator Tehan  made out. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  some documents which show beyond doubt that right is on the side of the people at Mount Larcom. 
THE PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? 
THE  PRESIDENT- Senator Colston,  could you explain what you seek to have incorporated? 
I have certain documents which prove beyond doubt that right is on the side of the people of Mount Larcom. They are not, to use the word of the Minister, rubbish. I do not come into this chamber with rubbish. 
THE  PRESIDENT-  What is the extent of them? 
-I show them to you,  Mr President. 
THE  PRESIDENT-  In accordance with usual practice, I shall inspect those documents later with a member of the  Hansard  staff, to see whether they can be incorporated. 
-Thank you. 
THE  PRESIDENT-  Leave has not been granted yet. I shall check whether they can be incorporated. Is leave granted for me to adopt that course? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-Thank you. I point out that I have a long and personal association with many police officers in Queensland. I worked in the Queensland Police Department for many years. I can say only the strongest words about the integrity of those with whom I came in contact. I would place in that category the people who worked for me in the Department. I would say the same about certain of the senior people with whom I came in contact during the course of my duties. I would not say the same about some of them.  Senator Keeffe  mentioned this earlier. He said that 90 per cent are men of integrity, or words to that effect. I would not like to put a percentage on the number who are men of integrity, but I would say it is at least that. 
Earlier this year there was an indication in Queensland that certain officers did take away from the people of Queensland the civil liberties that the people would expect. The circumstances which followed the incident to which I refer show that civil liberties are being whittled away in Queensland. I refer to a student march earlier this year. Students from the University of Queensland were marching from the University about four or five kilometres to the City Square in Brisbane. It was a peaceful march until they came to the William Jolly Bridge. At the William Jolly Bridge there was an assault- I can use no other word- on one of the women students. I did not see it because I was not in Brisbane at the time. I was in Canberra. I saw a film of it that evening on television. I was astounded that this could happen. I subsequently saw the film in slow motion. Apparently one of the superintendents who was looking after the march suddenly decided that he had to go elsewhere because other students were marching from the Queensland Institute of Technology. An inspector took over. When he did, one of the students was assaulted. 
It is not the assault that one should mention in detail; it is what happened later. The Police Commissioner almost immediately indicated that there would probably be a police inquiry. The Premier of Queensland said that there would not be an inquiry. In the ruckus that followed the Minister for Police was given a new portfolio. No inquiry was held because the Premier said: 'We will not hold an inquiry. The students were marching illegally'. My main point is that the Police Commissioner seemed to be under political control. This is a dangerous situation in any democracy. Police commissioners should have certain freedoms. They should have the freedom to be able to act without political control. I can well recall what happened in South Australia before I became associated with the Police Department. The Police Commissioner there actually defied an order from the Premier of that State. He and the Premier came to an amicable agreement about it. What has happened in Queensland is that the Premier has exercised definite political control over the Police Commissioner. The most recent incident was with regard to Cedar Bay. I am speaking specifically of Cedar Bay in Queensland now. 
I mentioned at another time how certain prosecutions came out of events at Cedar Bay. Strangely enough, these prosecutions went before a court that did not have the authority to try the people charged. They were tried and found guilty. Then it was necessary for the AttorneyGeneral in that State to nullify the convictions. It is not necessarily what happened at Cedar Bay that is of great importance, although what happened certainly is of greatest importance. For example, some of what is alleged would be very important in any country. Miss Janice Lambert, one of the people who subsequently made a complaint to the police, said: 
On 29 August 1976 certain baby clothes belonging to my young infant were wilfully burnt by an unknown police officer. 
Michael Ballister, who made another complaint, said in part: 
On that day my house and various items in it were destroyed by fire started by unknown police officers who had entered the Cedar Bay area earlier that morning. 
These aspects are important. What is also of importance is that no inquiry was to be held until complaints were made, and then an inquiry was made under protest through the Premier. The Premier himself said that he had authorised the inquiry that the Police Commissioner would hold. This led the Council for Civil Liberties in Queensland to make a statement that it was unfortunate that the Premier of Queensland had approved the investigation of certain complaints when under the Police Act it was not really the prerogative of the Premier to do so but the prerogative of the Police Commissioner. It is rather unfortunate that in Queensland when these situations occur personal abuse is put on to people who dissent. I would like to outline a couple of the things that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  said about people who have dissented from what he has been advocating. One Press article which quoted  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  on this item said: 
The Queensland Opposition Leader  Mr Burns  is spearheading an attack on the police. As usual when police act to uphold the law, the cry comes from the Opposition, " police brutality ", ' he said. 
The same names keep cropping up-  Dr Paul  Wilson, the Reverend Noel Preston, the Council for Civil Liberties- and the ALP', he said. 

 Dr Paul Wilson is a well respected academic at the University of Queensland. One who knows him would know that he would not be one of the people called irresponsible radicals; yet this is the picture that is painted of him by the Premier of Queensland. Those who know me and who know Paul Wilson would know that he and I have had differences of opinion from time to time, but I will uphold his integrity and the people of Queensland will too. The Reverend Noel Preston has a doctorate of divinity. It is unfortunate that personal abuse is put on him as well. I support the motion that has been moved by  Senator Keeffe  and suggest that the Senate agree with it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What financial assistance has been provided by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs since December 1972 to Aboriginal Publications Foundation Inc., to meet the publication costs of the newspaper  Aboriginal and [slander Forum. 
Has the Minister decided not to provide further funds for this purpose. If so, (a) what reasons did the Minister advance for this decision and ( b) was the recent publication by  Aboriginal and Islander Forum  of an article regarded as defamatory by some members of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs a factor in the decision not to provide further financial assistance. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What funds have been provided in the Kempsey area of New South Wales by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs since 1972. 
Has the Department investigated any complaints of uninhibited abuse of funds' and 'gross wastage', similar to those alleged by Reverend A. J. Beard in a letter to the  Sun Herald  dated 29 August 1976. If so, has any action been taken as a result of those investigations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Depanment of Aboriginal Affairs investigated the proposed funding of an Aboriginal clothing factory in Brisbane referred to in an article in the Brisbane  Sunday Sun  dated S September 1976. If so, (a) what are the details of the proposal, including the level of funding sought; (b) has a final decision been taken and, if so, what was the decision; and (c) if the proposal has been shelved, as is indicated in the  Sunday Sun  article, were those associated with the proposal, including  Mr Hiram  Ryan, previously given any indication by the Department that their proposal would be approved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What action, if any, is the Department of Aboriginal Affairs taking, either alone or in conjunction with the Queensland Government, to grant land rights to Aboriginals living in Queensland. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What is the full text of the memorandum/instruction sent recently to all Australian Broadcasting Commission staff by the Federal Comptroller of News Services of the Commission,  Mr Keith  Fraser, relating to objectivity in the presentation of the Commission's television and radio programs. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
To what extent does the Australian Department of Aboriginal Affairs recognise the Queensland Aborigines Advisory Council as representative of the views of Queensland Aborigines. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the estimated cost of production and distribution of the two volumes of the Attorney-General's speeches, press statements and contributions to the Parliament recently prepared by the Attorney-General's Department. 
To whom will copies of the two volumes be sent. 
Why was it necessary to publish these two volumes. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that a Minister of the Australian 
Government personally has approved a special grant to  Mr Albert  Patrick Field, a former senator for Queensland, to cover an item listed as legal expenses? If so, what legal expenses are involved and why has approval been given for the cost to be met by the Australian Government? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
With reference to the Minister's reply to Senate Question No. 747 which appeared in the Senate  Hansard  dated 17 August 1976, have final costs for the landline and satellite link rentals outlined in the answer been determined. If so, what are the costs involved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that the Subscriber Trunk Dialing system now being introduced into New Zealand will register individual calls and allow them to be shown as a separate item on the subscriber's account. If so, (a) why has it not been possible to introduce a similar system into Australia to date and, (b) are there any plans to introduce the system into Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Is Australia Post currently considering or, in the past twelve months, considered any proposals to assist advertisers to be placed on any of its mailing lists, excluding the mailing list for  Stamp Preview. 
If any such proposals were or are being considered, what are the details. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many persons were prosecuted for improperly obtaining unemployment benefit in each State of Australia in the periods (a) 1 July 1974 to 30 June 1975 and (b) 1 July 1975 to 30 June 1976. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
What is the present whereabouts of the official framed photograph of the former Prime Minister, the Honourable E. G. Whitlam, Q.C., M.P., which was hanging in the reception area of the Australian Parliament Offices, 295 Ann Street, Brisbane, prior to 1 1 November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the present whereabouts of the marijuana confiscated during the raid on Cedar Bay on 29 August 1 976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Were bogus mines recently attached to the side of HMAS  Bayonet  whilst the vessel was positioned within Cairns Harbour; if so, what are the details. 
All honourable senators know that people who receive allowances or pensions from the Government quite often are entirely dependant upon those allowances or pensions. When a cheque does not arrive for such a person it often means that he has severe financial embarrassment. Recently this happened in Queensland with regard to Tertiary Education Allowance Scheme payments. I am not aware of the full extent of the occurrence, but I think it is sufficiently important to bring it before the chamber and sufficiently important for me to ask the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  some questions about this occurrence. Some of the students informed me that this happened in Queensland with regard to their TEAS payments for October. The cheques did not arrive. When the cheques did not arrive the students naturally made some inquiries. They told me that when they inquired they were informed that the allowances had not arrived because of a blunder in the Education Department office in Brisbane. They asked me to look into the matter on their behalf. I did so. 
I was in contact with the Education Department in Brisbane and was informed of 2 basic things. The first was that the allowances did not go to some students in October because of a mistake in that office. The officer who spoke to me did not elaborate. I did not ask him any further questions about the mistake. He also told me that to his knowledge the allowances had gone out after the mistake had been discovered. This did not agree with the information which had been given to me by some of the students. So I asked him further whether this was correct. He checked and said that they had not gone out but that they would most likely go out on Monday or Tuesday of this week. I presume that by now the allowances have gone out. I hope that they have. There is no need really to point out the distress that this can cause if it happens not only to students but to people in receipt of other benefits as well. 
Most of us know that at this time of the year students either are engaged heavily in studying for examinations or are actually doing examinations. For a student to find that his allowance has not arrived increases the anxiety at a time when one would hope that he would not have such pressures on him. I am informed that some students were obliged to go into debt because they were left bereft of funds. I am inclined to think- I hope I am incorrect- that those who were responsible for the mistake were not aware of the distress that could have been generated to students, especially at this time of year. Therefore I ask the Minister certain questions with regard to this occurrence. The first one is this: What were the details surrounding the nonarrival of the cheques to the TEAS recipients in Brisbane? Why was it that once the error was noticed, well before the end of October, the students had to wait until this month for thencheques to be forwarded? Additionally my information suggests that it was necessary to wait for a computer run and the cheques had to be programmed into a possible run in future. If this is so, why could not a manual system of preparing and forwarding the cheques have been adopted, especially under circumstances in which students were in need of these funds? Finally, what steps have been taken to ensure that needy students are not kept waiting for their allowances in future? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the raid carried out by Queensland State Police and Federal narcotics agents on the community of Cedar Bay in north Queensland on Sunday, 29 August 1 976, (a) on whose instructions were the Federal agents acting, (b) who requested them to take action, (c) how many Federal agents were involved, and what were their respective names and official designations, (d) were any of the agents armed and, if so, were their firearms discharged during the course of the raid, (e) on whose instructions was the vessel  Jabiru  involved in the action, and what part did it play, and (f) is the Minister satisfied with all aspects of the conduct of the Federal agents involved in the raid. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
With reference to the raid carried out by Queensland State Police and Federal narcotics agents on the community of Cedar Bay in north Queensland on Sunday 29 August 1976, (a) on whose instructions did HMAS  Bayonet  take part in the raid, (b) who requested the presence of HMAS  Bayonet,  (c) what was the name and rank of each crew member of HMAS  Bayonet  at the time of the raid, (d) what part did HMAS  Bayonet  and the crew play in the raid and (e) were any other officials from the Department of Defence or the armed services involved in the raid; if so, who were they and what pan did they play. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What instructions were given to the commander of HMAS  Bayonet  in relation to the raid on Cedar Bay on 29 August 1976. 
Who issued those instructions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did HMAS  Bayonet  intercept and/or search any vessels in or out of Australian waters during August 1 976 or during the period 1-14 September 1976; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Were any police officers of the Commonwealth, any State, or any Territory, on board HMAS  Bayonet,  during August 1976 or during the period 1-14 September 1976; if », what was the name of each police officer, on what date or dates was he on board and why was he on board. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Do crew members on naval vessels normally carry arms. 
Were crew members of HMAS  Bayonet  armed on 29 August 1976; if so, what arms were they carrying. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon nonce: 
Has an internal inquiry taken place into the use of defence facilities and personnel during the police raid on the community of Cedar Bay on Sunday, 29 August 1976; if so, what were the findings of the inquiry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Federal Government meet the cost of the charter of the helicopter used to transport members of the Queensland Police Force and Federal narcotic agents who took part in the raid carried out on the community of Cedar Bay in north Queensland on Sunday, 29 August 1976; if so, (a) what was the cost of the charter, (b) who requested the charter of the helicopter, (c) who approved the charter of the helicopter, and (d) why did the Federal Government meet the cost, rather than the Queensland Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the total cost to the Australian Government of the raid' carried out at Cedar Bay in north Queensland on Sunday, 29 August 1976. 
Have Federal Officers either on their own initiative or acting in conjunction with Queensland State Police visited the Cedar Bay area on any occasion since 29 August 1976; if so, what are the details. 
What amount of marijuana was seized during the raid on Cedar Bay on 29 August 1976 and what was its estimated commercial value. 
Has any marijuana been seized at Cedar Bay on any occasion since 29 August 1 976; if so, what are the details. 
5 ) Has the Minister, or any of his officers, had any contact with the Western Australian Government concerning extradition proceedings against Robert Clive Elliott and Kerry Jay Elliott from Cairns, Queensland, to Western Australia relating to warrants issued against R. C. Elliott and K. J. Elliott in Western Australia in 1 97 1 . 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has the Minister been in contact with the Queensland Premier, the Queensland Treasurer, the Queensland Minister for Police or the Queensland Police Commissioner concerning the recent raid by Commonwealth and State Officers at Cedar Bay, on any occasion since the raid took place on 29 August 1976; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister been in contact with the Queensland Premier, the Queensland Treasurer, the Queensland Minister for Police or the Queensland Police Commissioner concerning the recent raid by Commonwealth and State Officers at Cedar Bay, on any occasion since the raid took place on 29 August 1 976; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the present whereabouts of items of clothing, personal effects and other articles confiscated during the raid on Cedar Bay on 29 August 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Why did the Department of Defence decide upon which berth in Melbourne was suitable for allocation to the USS  Truxtun  without consultation with Melbourne port authorities and with the Victorian Government, as was alleged in an article in  Nation Review  dated 2 October 1976. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. In view of the statements of the Minister this afternoon that he would provide to  Senator Wriedt  information regarding an alleged $105m cut in education funds by the Whitlam Government, in preface to my question I remind the Minister that on 1 7 August this year I put a question on notice which read as follows: 
What was the shortfall between the 1976 component of the 1976-78 triennial funding recommendations made by the various education commissions and the 1976 interim year allocation for education subsequently announced in August 197S by the then Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley? 
In what areas was recommended expenditure reduced and for each of these areas what was the recommended expenditure and the size of the reduction? 
In view of the fact that the Minister has said he will provide information to  Senator Wriedt,  I ask: First, when does the Minister expect that I shall receive an answer to a question I placed on notice on 17 August? Secondly, will  Senator Wriedt  have to wait  2y2  months for his information as I have had to wait? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Administrative  Services  discontinued sending the daily compilations of ministerial Press releases to the electorate offices of members and senators. If so, why. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that the Queensland Minister for Health,  Dr L.  Edwards, quoted in the  Courier-Mail  dated 3 October 1976, has expressed disappointment that the Commonwealth Government has reduced funds for welfare services for the aged. If so, (a) is the Commonwealth Government solely responsible for the Queensland Government's cutback in planned new programs for the aged foreshadowed by  Dr Edwards,  and (b) what new programs will be affected? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Why has the environmental impact statement for the 1973 development of Brisbane airport not been published? 
When is it likely that the statement will be published? 
I wish to make some comments in regard to the estimates for the Department of Education set out in division 270.4.0 1 in relation to post-graduate awards. The appropriation this year has been decreased compared with last year. The decrease is due to the fact that fewer awards will be made this year than were made last year. I would like to make a few comments about this, not in the hope of changing the Government's viewpoint but perhaps in the hope of influencing what the 
Government might decide to be policy in the years ahead. 
From 1959 onwards there have been dramatic increases in the number of post-graduate awards. In 1959, 100 new awards were presented and in 1960 there were also 100 awards. In 1961 there was one fewer, for some reason, when 99 awards were presented. I presume that 100 new awards were available, but for some reason one was not taken up. In 1962 the number increased to 125 and the following year to 169. The rate of increase over those years was fairly constant. In 1964 there were 225 and in 1965 there were 299 new awards. In 1966 there were 400. For the next 2 years there were 500 awards. For the next 2 years, 1969 and 1970, there were 650 awards. For the 3 years from 1 97 1 to 1 973 there were 800 awards. In 1974 there were 892 awards. I should imagine that 900 new awards were available, but for some reason 8 awards were not taken up. For the last 2 years, 1975 and 1976, there were 900 new awards. The Government has decided to reduce the number of post-graduate awards from 900 to 800. 
I can vividly recall when I was looking forward to taking up one of these post graduate awards myself In 1966 I was completing an honours year and towards the end of the year when I was thinking that I might like to take one of these post graduate awards there was a notification that the number of awards would be increased from 400 to 500. 1 was particularly gratified by this announcement because I thought it might have enhanced my possibilities of taking one of these awards. I can imagine what has happened this year. I can remember my gratification in 1 966; but this year there would be a number of students I am sure who would be particularly upset because they could see that their possibility of obtaining a post graduate award next year would be reduced because there will be 100 less. 
My comment to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  is that I am hopeful that there will not be any further decrease in the number of awards in future years. I am sure the Minister will be aware of the long term benefits that can flow from these awards, not only to the students but to the nation as well. I hope that in future times when the Government can see fit it will return the number of awards to the level in 1975-76 of 900 and then perhaps as the years go by we might find that we can provide more of these post graduate awards. In other words, what I am saying this evening is that I am hopeful that the number of awards will increase in future and certainly will not decrease again. 
In addition, I wish to make some brief comment on the estimates for the Postal and Telecommunications Department.  Mr Chairman,  I shall have to seek your guidance here. I cannot identify the division to which I refer but the item appears on page 61. The item to which I wish to refer concerns the main elements of earnings for Telecom. It is in relation to this item that I make some comments about subscriber trunk dialling. One of the most forward movements in telecommunications in recent years has been the introduction of STD. It has been welcomed by many people who know the way in which costs can be saved by using STD. 
I can recall that it was not so many years agoI suppose about 1971- that an officer of the Postmaster General's Department, as it was at the time, said to me that if people did not use STD the PMG would have to require them to incur a charge for making a manually connected call. This seemed to be a huie novel and perhaps something that might not have been accepted by people, but it has now been accepted fairly well. I think it has been accepted because those who regularly make STD calls find them ever so much easier than having to book the calls. But one of the untoward happenings with the introduction of STD has been that many people's telephone accounts have been higher than anticipated. 
I recall reading about 2 weeks ago that an officer of Telecom, in relation to a complaint which received some publicity in the Brisbane newspapers, said that of 100 cases that were investigated by Telecom there were about 98 per cent in which the people should have received the account that they did. It seems to be an unhappy situation where one can have 2 per cent of cases where there could be something wrong with people's accounts, but I should like to deal with the other 98 per cent. Many people now are finding that their telephone accounts for metered calls are much higher than anticipated and many people complain about this. Some of them complain to members of Parliament about that. I presume that in most of the cases where people are genuine in their complaint they have made STD calls and not realised that they have made them. 
In this I think there is a real defect, the defect being that STD calls are not metered separately. I asked a question on this and only 2 days ago received an answer which suggested that there would be no real move within Australia to have STD calls metered separately, although it seems that in New Zealand where STD type calls are being introduced at the moment, the metering will be separate. But what interested me was that apparently over the next 5 years or so there will be separate metering for international subscriber dialling calls. It somewhat surprises me that the priority should be on ISD calls rather than STD calls if one is to have separate metering. My argument is that ISD calls are available on telephones only where people have specifically asked for ISD to be connected, whereas for STD the connection is there unless people specifically ask that it be taken away or removed by barring. 
For the person who asks for ISD to be connected it would seem to me that that person, having asked, would be able readily to accept that metered call charges would be high to cover the ISD calls that are made whereas with STD people might be unwittingly making long distance calls and not able to tell because the charges are bulked with local metered calls. I realise, as we all do, that if we make an STD call when we are connected a warning is given that it is an STD call. But I am sure that some people are unaware that they are making them and when they receive their telephone accounts see nothing to indicate that there have been STD calls. 
The case that I should like to present to the Government, and therefore to Telecom, is to keep looking at the possibility of metering STD calls separately. It seems from the answer that I received recently that Telecom will introduce this but it will be a long term project. I hope that Telecom will keep this in mind because I am sure that many people are finding that their telephone accounts are high through no real fault of their own, just through misunderstanding of the system. 

 - Mr President, I direct some comments to you in relation to question time. I realise that you are in a difficult position because no matter what you do you cannot please everybody. Most of us, I would venture to say, realise your position. Therefore, we make comment only when we think it is really necessary. I think that when back benchers feel they have a grievance they should say so, not keep it to themselves. Who knows? It might be rectified. If the back bencher is under a misapprehension he can be told. Therefore, in deference to you,  Mr President,  I make some observations about question time this week. Before I do so I make one other observation, and that is that however insignificant a member's question may be, to that member, I am sure, the question appears important. It might be a quite insignificant question. To the senator it might be a world shattering one. 
I was one of the senators who this week asked only one question. I was one of those senators who rose to ask a question on every sitting day. In other words, on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thurday I attempted to ask a question. I should like to point out some of the ways in which the call to honourable senators who wish to ask questions was allocated. According to informanon that I have, there was one senator who asked more than 4 questions during the week. That was the Leader of the Opposition. We all accept the convention that the Leader of the Opposition can ask a question at any time and I think it is a good convention. 
-Yes. It is necessary. But I shall mention some data that relates to questions asked by senators other than the Leader of the Opposition. This week, each of 24 senators asked one question. Although not all of those 24 senators, as in my case, would have been trying to ask a question on each sitting day of the week, certainly some of those 24 senators would have done that. Fourteen senators asked 2 questions. When I refer to questions I do not include supplementary questions. I am just speaking of the basic question. Those of us who asked one question would not look with too much envy at those who asked 2 question. But 8 senators asked 3 questions. In other words, they were given the call 3 times. Those of us who asked one question, having tried to ask one question each day, I think would look with some degree of envy at those people who asked 3 questions. 
One senator was afforded 4 questions and I am sure that the envy of those of us who asked one question would be a little bit higher still towards that senator who asked 4 questions. I speak of envy, not in the real sense of the word, but just to point out that perhaps there is something a little amiss when such a distribution of questions does occur. In other words, 24 senators asked 1 question, 14 senators asked 2 questions, 8 senators asked 3 questions and one senator asked four questions. 
I realise,  Mr President,  that you have a system that you use to try to afford senators the best possible chance to ask questions. However, in view of what is happening I think that there could be something amiss. I would like you to take into consideration the remarks that I have made this evening. Let me just repeat that I do understand that you are in a difficult position and I thank you,  Sir, for  allowing me to bring this matter before you. 
It is true that the Leader of the Opposition has the call from me whenever he rises. He is the spokesman for the Labor Party. I will never get away from the practice of calling him as the No. 1 senator on the Opposition side. I am concerned that I should be fair in calling senators during question time, bearing in mind that 32 to 33 questions are asked a day and that the complement of this chamber is larger than those numbers. In  Senator Colston's  case I am sorry to say that in February he had only one question in 5 days. In March he had 7 questions in 1 1 days. In April he had five in 7 days. He was absent for one day, so maybe he would have had six in 7 days if he had not been absent. In May there were 9 sitting days. He was absent 3 days. He had 6 questions. In June there were 3 sitting days. He had 3 questions and he was absent for one day. In August there were 5 sitting days. He was absent for three. He had one question. In September there were 9 sitting days. He had 5 questions. In October there were 9 sitting days. He had one day absent and 3 questions. This month there have been 3 sitting days and he has had a question.* 
If I can do better than that from my place, I would like to know how. I have the records of other honourable senators before me. My system has sought to be as fair as possible. If I call a person No. 3 1 one day, I try to give him an early call the next day. So, I appreciate  Senator Colston's  concern, but I hope he will also appreciate mine. I endeavour to ensure complete impartiality. As a back bench member of this chamber I was a very avid question asker. I regard question time as a very important time. When I was sitting on 

 * See also page 1691. the back benches I used to think to myself: 'For heaven's sake, why have I not a question today?' But I can well appreciate the Presiding Officer's dilemma in endeavouring to accede to every person's request. I can only assure honourable senators very sincerely and very honestly that I am doing the best I can to ensure fairness. 

 -Mr President, may I make a statement on the grounds that I think I have been misrepresented? 
-I have not been absent from this chamber one day since I came into this Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a letter from L. E. Shannon of Hurstville, New South Wales, which appeared in  Nation Review  dated 8 October 1976, in which  Mr Shannon  claims that he had received a letter from the Member for Barton,  Mr J.  M. Bradfield, M.P., which in part said, in referring to the recent Cedar Bay raid, that 'no Commonwealth assistance was given to the Queensland police in this raid'. If so (a) is the information provided by  Mr Bradfield  to L. E. Shannon incorrect in relation to Commonwealth involvement in the raid, and (b) did the member for Barton obtain his information from the Minister's office, or from the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. 

 Senator DURACK- The following information is provided in answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Details of the assistance provided by the Bureau of Customs to the Queensland State Police during their operation at Cedar Bay on 29 August are provided in the answer to Senate question No. 1 105. See  Hansard  2 November 1976. 
No. 
Welfare Services for the Aged (Question No.  1188) 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the requirements for a State to obtain assistance for paramedical services for aged persons within their own homes under the States Grants (Paramedical Services) Act. 
What funds were received by each State under the States Grants (Paramedical Services) Act in 1975-76. 
Do any States receive grants for paramedical services for aged persons under health programs other than that referred to in (1). If so, (a) which States are involved, (b) what did each State receive for these projects in 1 975-76, (c) what is each State expected to receive in 1976-77, and (d) under what program were the grants obtained. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Prime Minister been in contact with the Queensland Premier, the Queensland Treasurer, the Queensland Minister for Police or the Queensland Police Commissioner concerning the recent raid by Commonwealth and State officers at Cedar Bay, on any occasion since the raid took place on 29 August 1976. If so, what are the details: 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is the Department of Social Security, or an interdepartmental committee of which the Department is a member, currently investigating the possibility of making payments under the family allowance system taxable. If so, what are the details. 
I preface my question which is directed to the Minister for Science by stating that I am well aware of the need to have adequate warning of impending cyclones. Indeed, comments over recent days have stressed this need. I ask: Is the Minister aware of strong criticisms made recently by the executive officer of the Queensland Motels Association,  Mr Jim  Pringle, that sensational publicity surrounding cyclones and strong winds, and cyclone siren warnings broadcast over the media, are drastically affecting the tourist industry in Queensland, in particular through motel and other accommodation bookings? If so, has the Minister studied  Mr Pringle  's call for a reassessment of the cyclone warning system? If not, will the Minister study  Mr Pringle  's call for a reassessment of the cyclone warning system with a view to scaling down warnings for certain degrees of cyclones or for cyclones situated well off the coast? What action does the Minister intend to take as a result of  Mr Pringle  's request? 
This evening I wish to raise some matters in regard to the Australian Broadcasting Commission's news services in Queensland since the introduction of daylight saving in the southern States. On 13 October a Government  Senator asked  a question in relation to this subject and this was of course before daylight saving was introduced.  Senator Carrick  gave what was probably meant to be a jocular reply but with all respect to  Senator Carrick  I would say that some people in Queensland who read the reply would consider it to be a flippant reply. This is a very real problem to people in Queensland. In reply to a question about what would happen to news broadcasts when daylight saving was introduced in the southern States  Senator Carrick  said: 
Of course, some solutions can be offered. One alternative solution is for Queensland to adopt eastern summer time and then no such probelms would anse. Assuming the assertion of the right to be different, what happened in the past, as I understand it, is that the radio stations and television stations recorded the programs and rebroadcast them so that in fact the curtains did not have to fade in Queensland and the people heard their programs on time. I am not aware that there is any difficulty with this matter, but if there is any likelihood that the programs will not be readjusted I will bring the question to the attention of the relevant Minister and seek a reply. 
There have been some aspects of readjustment which Queensland people have had to face. For instance, the ABC program  PM  is now heard at 5.5 p.m. rather than 6.5 p.m. I think this has resulted in a smaller listening audience to the program. Additionally the main radio news service is now broadcast at 6 p.m. rather than at 7 p.m. I am referring to radio news services, not television. A number of people have come to me and said that the new arrangement of having the radio news service broadcast at 6 p.m. rather than at 7 p.m. is not satisfactory. Other people have complained that they are not able to listen to the program  PM  because of its new time slotone hour earlier. The argument has been put, I think, very succinctly in a letter that I received from  Mr Jackman  the Secretary of the Graziers Association of Central and Northern Queensland. Because the argument is so well put I would like to read this letter to the Senate. It says: 
Resulting from a meeting of the Muttaburra branch of this Association held on Saturday 23 October 1976, 1 have been asked by the branch to forward a copy of a motion adopted at the meeting, lodging the strongest possible protest at the changed times of the ABC Queensland news broadcasts due to commence after daylight saving comes into being in the southern States. 
The feelings of the members of the Muttaburra branch are those of many people in western Queensland and we seek your assistance to have the matter rectified. 
The resolution reads'. 
That complete disgust at the change of news times on ABC be voiced to the appropriate authority- the main reason for objecting to daylight saving on radio by inland country and urban people is that owing to working by daylight rather than by time we don 't always hear the news during the daylight hours, therefore we rely heavily on the evening news. Most people in Queensland are literate and take great interest in current affairs, and as we contribute towards the payment of ABC staff we should have some say in how our programs are run. 
The general opinion is that the news, local, State and national, be broadcast as usual between 6.45 p.m. and 7. IS p.m. Queensland summer time, or normal Eastern Standard Time, and if the southern States elect to change to daylight saving time then may they suffer the consequences by having their news at 8 p.m.' 
I would point out that the majority of the population listening to radio are country people or urban people living in remote towns and therefore by altering the timetable the ABC is discriminating against the majority of the audience. 
Finally I would point out that most country and urban people prefer to work during the cooler part of the daylight hours in summer and therefore 6 p.m. as a news time in Queensland would be wasting the ABC's time and our money, as there would be little or no audience to hear the program. 
We therefore request the ABC to return to the 7 p.m. time slot as it is a more equitable hour for most people in this State to listen to news broadcasts. 
There is little that I can add to what I think is a succinct argument by  Mr Jackman.  I would say, however, that it is all very well for people in Canberra to sit here and receive their news broadcasts at 7 p.m. but it would be well for them to think of the people in the western areas of Queensland who do have the problems which were expressed by  Mr Jackman  and would like to have the ABC news which was previously received at 7 o'clock to be broadcast still at 7 p.m. rather than 6 p.m. So I ask the Minister representing the Postmaster-General to take my comments as serious comments and give them due consideration and to give due consideration to the points that have been put by the people who are being disadvantaged now in Queensland because of a re-allocation of program times in that State. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has the Minister or any of his officers had any contact with the Western Australian Government concerning extradition proceedings against Robert Clive Elliott and Kerry Jay Elliott from Cairns, Queensland, to Western Australia relating to warrants issued against R. C. Elliott and K. J. Elliott in Western Australia in 1971. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Minister's replies to Senate questions Nos 747 and 927, have final costs for the landline and satellite link rentals for the Bicentennial Radio Weekend now been determined: if so, what are the costs involved. 
2 ) If the final costs have not yet been determined, when is it expected that they will be determined, what are the circumstances which have prevented them from being determined and will the Minister announce the costs as soon as they become available. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Has the Minister been in contact with the Queensland Premier, the Queensland Treasurer, the Queensland Minister for Police or the Queensland Police Commissioner concerning the recent raid by Commonwealth and State officers at Cedar Bay, on any occasion since the raid took place on 29 August 1976. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
For each capital city, what percentage of telephone faults are cleared by the end of the day following report where such faults render a service unworkable. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Have the firms National Utility Services Incorporated or NUS International Pty Ltd, whose activities in the field of auditing telephone accounts aimed at saving money for clients in Australia were described in an article in the  Bulletin  of 1 4 August 1 976, made any approaches to the Minister, the Department of Post and Telecommunications or to Telecom Australia, regarding the operations of the companies in this country. If so, (a) what liaison will exist between the companies and Government instrumentalities in future and (b) has the Minister given any instructions to his Department or to Telecom Australia to the operations of the companies. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Science. I refer to the Treasurer's announcement in a Press release dated 1 
November this year that the Government has decided to issue a special 50c coin in 1977 to commemorate the twenty-fifth anniversary of the accession of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II. The Minister would be aware that the Treasurer has advised that the new coin will have the same shape, size, weight and composition as the present 12-sided 50c coin. Because the size and weight of each coin currently in circulation in Australia are not based on metric units of measurement, will the Minister consider recommending to the Government that the new coin be equal in size and weight to exact metric measurements? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many positions of Aboriginal Employment Assistant are currently being advertised in Australia by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations by advertisements similar to that which appeared in the  Courier-Mail  dated 25 September 1976, and in which towns or cities will the successful applicants be placed. 
Are the positions concerned new positions. If so, was their creation the result of the current inquiry into Aboriginal unemployment. 
If the positions are not new positions, when and how did the vacancies occur. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What was the shortfall between the 1976 component of the 1976-78 triennial funding recommendations made by the various education commissions and the 1976 interim year allocation for education subsequently announced in August 1975 by the then Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley. 
In what areas was recommended expenditure reduced and for each of these areas what was the recommended expenditure and the size of the reduction. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What has been the current, capital and total outlay by the Australian Government on education for each financial year from 1945-46 to 1975-76. 
What is the anticipated outlay in each of the three areas referred to for 1976-77. 
This evening I wish to speak about the resignation of the Queensland Commissioner of Police. Most honourable senators would realise by now that yesterday the announcement was made that the Commissioner of Police in Queensland,  Mr Ray  Whitrod, had resigned his position. I think that this resignation has grave consequences for Queensland, and therefore I speak about it tonight. I speak from 2 broad bases. I speak as a representative of the Queensland people and I speak as a former colleague of Ray Whitrod. Later I will outline how I worked with Ray Whitrod and how I came to know him very well. Therefore perhaps I know more about his resignation than some other people would know. In fact I would also know something about the consequences of that resignation. I believe that yesterday, when the announcement was made that Ray Whitrod had resigned, was a tragic day for the people of 
Queensland. It was tragic that the people of Queensland should lose the services of a man like  Mr Whitrod-  a man who had worked for a number of years in the Queensland Police Force, doing his best to make it an efficient and effective force. 
I would like to point out some of the qualities and achievements of this man of whom I speak. Ray Whitrod was born in South Australia. During the war years he was a navigator with the Air Force. He has shown that he has high academic ability. He holds the degree of Bachelor of Economics and a Master of Arts degree, both from the Australian National University. He also obtained a Diploma of Criminology from Cambridge University. He used his own time on leave to pursue that diploma. In the 1960s he showed that he had high intellectual ability when he won the Queen's Gold Medal essay competition with an essay entitled  As Society Becomes Affluent, Delinquency Increases.  He won that medal against competition from police officers in many parts of the world. He holds the Queen's Police Medal. He also holds the award of Commander of the Royal Victorian Order. 
Let us look at some of his achievements while working for the Australian people. At one time he was the Assistant Director of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. He was the Director of the Commonwealth Investigation Service at one stage. At another time he was the Commissioner of the Commonwealth Police. He then became Commissioner of Police in the Territory of Papua New Guinea, before that Territory became an independent nation. Following his appointment as Commissioner of Police in Papua New Guinea he became Commissioner of Police in Queensland in 1 970. 
I have sketched just some aspects of the achievements and the ability of Ray Whitrod. It is also worth mentioning a couple of other aspects of his life which people do not often see. It is interesting to note that tn 1972  Mr Whitrod  gained the award of Queenslander of the Year. One other aspect which people do not readily know of is his association with the scouting movement; he holds a senior position in the Scouts Association. These achievements and his ability, I think, underline the claim I made that it was a tragedy for the people of Queensland when they learnt yesterday that they will lose the services of such a man within the next couple of weeks when he leaves the post of Queensland Police Commissioner. 
I think that it is encumbent upon me this evening to relate some personal reflections about the 
Queensland Police Commissioner. I first met Ray Whitrod when I applied for a position in the Queensland Police Department. At that time I was a State public servant working in the Queensland Department of Education. The position advertised was that of officer-in-charge of the Planning and Research Unit in the Queensland Police Department. At that stage, of course, there was no Planning and Research Unit; so one of the duties of the incoming officer in charge was to build up the Planning and Research Unit and, I suppose, having built it up, to be in charge of its operations. When I applied for that position I was interviewed, together I presume with other applicants on a short list, by Ray Whitrod, the Police Commissioner, and the Secretary of the Queensland Police Department. That was the first occasion on which I met him, and that was in 1971. Subsequently I was appointed to the position for which I had applied. From 1971 until the double dissolution of the Federal Parliament in 1974, when by law I had to resign that position to contest the Senate election, I worked in that position in the Police Department. 
From 1971 to 1974 I was directly responsible to the Commissioner of Police. He was my immediate superior. I think it is fair to say when I am recounting events such as these that Ray Whitrod and I did have differences of opinion, but they were not personal differences of opinion; they were differences of opinion on how the Force could best be organised to serve the people of Queensland. During the time when I  was associated with him I found him to be a man of complete integrity. His ability and his capacity for work were extreme. I think it is well that this be placed on record now that Ray Whitrod is about to leave the scene in Queensland. Despite his ability, his integrity and his capacity for work, he was faced with a great many frustrations. Some of these undoubtedly occurred because he had been brought into the Queensland Police Force from outside; he was an outsider brought in to tackle the hard job of Commissioner of the Queensland Police Force. Of course he was brought in for special reasons- reasons which I do not think are worth recounting this evening. But, to read between the lines, if a person of the calibre of Ray Whitrod is brought in from outside it must give some indication that such a person is required. 
I do not intend to relate the details of private conversations that I had with him; I do not think that that would be proper. However, I do think that it is quite proper for me to say that from conversations I had with him I was aware of the frustrations with which he was faced. Having seen a person brought in from outside the Queensland Police Force, many people were envious of the fact that he had been brought in to be the Commissioner of Police and, I think quite wrongly, worked against him rather than with him to mould the Queensland Police Force into the type of force that is required for a modern society. Even if one had not had conversations with him on these aspects, one could see from time to time just by observation what was happening and how people were putting obstacles in his path. It is worth reporting that in spite of those obstacles he still strove to do the job that he had been appointed to do. 
He used modern management techniques to improve the Queensland Police Force. He used those modern management techniques when some private organisations were not even aware that they existed or, if they were aware that they existed, did not consider them to be worth using themselves. From my observation, I am sure that these management techniques that he used helped to improve the Force. He raised the standard of general education of the police in Queensland. He did not require his police officers to be intellectual giants, but he did require police officers- I believe quite rightly so- to be aware of society's problems and how to deal with the problems in a modern society. He achieved an efficient and effective police force. As well as doing all these things, I am sure that he worked hard to develop an honest police force. From my knowledge of the man, he is completely honest himself. I mentioned before something about his integrity.  His  honesty is beyond doubt, in my estimation. He also worked to ensure that his force was an honest one. If he had not been faced with the frustrations that I mentioned earlier he would have achieved much more than he did for the people of Queensland. Even with those frustrations, he achieved many things. 
In speaking of the impending departure of Ray Whitrod, I cast no aspersions on those people who are left at the top of the Queensland Police Force. I know Terry Lewis quite well. Some honourable senators may recall that Terry Lewis has been appointed an Assistant Commissioner of Police in Queensland. There has been some division about whether Terry Lewis should have been appointed to that position because, in comparison with other officers in the force, he is fairly junior. I have known him for a long time. It is rumoured that he may become the next Commissioner. If he does I am sure that he will do a good job. I also know one of the other Assistant Commissioners of Police very well indeed. I cast no aspersions on him. I know him quite well because when I was working for the Queensland Police Department I had the opportunity to choose a second-in-charge and I chose that man who, since I have left, has received further promotion and has become an Assistant Commissioner of Police. I could not have asked for a better second-in-charge, and I am sure that no Commissioner of Police in Queensland could have asked for a better man. As I said, I cast no aspersions on those people. What I am pointing out is that it is a tragedy for the Queensland people to lose Ray Whitrod. 
I think that those people who are left at the top will inherit a divided force. It is inevitable that morale in the Queensland Police Force will drop because of the resignation of the leader and the circumstances in which he resigned. In this respect , the people taking charge will have a difficult job. They will have to try to boost morale back to its previous position. If the rumours current in Queensland tonight are true morale will drop even further tomorrow or the next day. The rumours are that tomorrow or in the next few days 4 police officers will be charged with a total of 26 offences over the Cedar Bay issue. If this happens the new people in charge will have a difficult job indeed. 
I mentioned earlier that I thought the events of yesterday were a tragedy. I will quote what a former colleague of Ray Whitrod said this morning on  A.M.  He is  Mr Norm  Gulbransen who, until he retired recently, was one of Queensland's Assistant Commissioners of Police. I got to know Norm Gulbransen quite well. I accept his word on many aspects of police administration. This morning on  A.M.  Mr Gulbransen  said: 
Well, I think it is a tragedy for the Police Department and the public of Queensland. 
The interviewer said: 
Why do you see it as a tragedy? 

 Mr Gulbransen replied: 
Well, his performance was so outstanding. He endeavoured to have a completely honest police force. He endeavoured to uplift the standard of education. His record shows that he did in fact uplift the efficiency to a large degree. 
Why did Ray Whitrod resign? Did he resign of his own volition? Was he pushed? Was he put into a situation in which he had no option but to resign? I think the latter is probably correct. Some honourable senators will remember that not too long ago the Minister for Police in Queensland, Max Hodges, was transferred from the Police Ministry to a lower ranking Ministry. 
In that transfer he was virtually demoted. Not only has the Police Minister gone but also the Police Commissioner. 
The facts about why he resigned will come out. But even before they do I think that this is a major issue. One of the stories surrounding the possible cause for Ray Whitrod 's resignation is that he put to the Queensland Government a short list of candidates for a vacant position of Assistant Commissioner of Police. None of the people on the short list was chosen. A person was chosen whom Ray Whitrod apparently did not think had the same ability at that time as the people he had put on the short list. This may be somewhere towards the truth. I think it is probably one of the factors, but it was probably a multi-faceted situation which made Ray Whitrod resign. 
In referring to his resignation I will quote another comment from  Mr Gulbransen  whom I mentioned earlier. The interviewer on  A.M.  this morning said to him: 
Do you think that possibly  Mr Whitrod  might have resigned, to use a phrase- maybe because he was somewhat heartbroken that all the efforts he had put in maybe didn't receive due recognition. 

 Mr Gulbransen said: 
Well, I can't say that but I do know he has every reason to be heartbroken. 
In this episode it is well to reflect that a Commissioner of Police must have a certain amount of autonomy or independence. I realise that there is a delicate balance. I suppose that a commissioner can have too much independence. After all, he is responsible to the political leaders of the State in which he works. On the other hand, if he has no independence the police force itself becomes just an arm of government and we may then have what is often called a police state. I believe that all Ray Whitrod 's autonomy and independence were taken away. Because of this I think there are grave consequences for the people of Queensland. What will happen to the incoming Police Commissioner? Will he have any independence or will he be directed by the political leaders in that State? If he is it does not auger well for the people of Queensland. I am genuine when I say that I am fearful for the future of Queensland after what has happened. Perhaps, as some people have been saying, there has been a political shift to the far Right. Whether this is so or not, it appears that there will be great political influence on the police force in Queensland if the events of the past couple of days are any indication of what is to come. As I said, we have seen the virtual dismissal of a Minister for Police and now a highly competent Commissioner has resigned in circumstances which suggest that he had no other option. 
We spoke in this chamber not too long ago about civil liberties. I think that grave questions about civil liberties in Queensland have arisen from what happened yesterday. I do not want to turn this into a political debate. I entered this debate tonight, as I said, as a representative of the people of Queensland and a former colleague of Ray Whitrod. I look forward to the time when Ray Whitrod can tell all that he wants to tell about his resignation. He will not do so at the moment because he is a servant of the people of Queensland. I believe that when he leaves the force he will not do as some people do and say things which will make it awkward for the incoming Commissioner or the Queensland Government. I think Ray Whitrod will tell things straight, as he sees them, and not try to colour the facts. In the meantime, it is well to remember that a man of high ability and integrity has been lost to the people of Queensland. He did a great deal to uplift the force and would have achieved a great deal more if he had been allowed to remain until his normal retiring age of 65 years. This morning I sent a telegram to Ray Whitrod. I did not send it to him as a representative of the people of Queensland. I sent it to him as an excolleague and, I am hopeful, as a current friend. I wished him all the best for the future. I am sure that many people in Queensland will also be wishing him all the best for the future. There is an old saying that no man is indispensable. This is probably true. But whilst a man might not be indispensable, if he leaves a position he is likely to be missed. Ray Whitrod is such a man. I am sure that he will be missed by the people of Queensland. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
On the basis of the reports for the triennium 1976-78 of the Schools Commission, the Universities Commission, the Commission on Advanced Education, and the Technical and Further Education Committee in Australia, what was the recommended spending in each of the four areas for (a) 1976, (b) 1977 and (c) 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General or any of his officers had any contact with the Western Australian Government concerning extradition proceedings against Robert Clive Elliott and Kerry Jay Elliott from Cairns, Queensland, to Western Australia relating to warrants issued against R. C. Elliott and K. J. Elliott in Western Australia in 1 97 1 . 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General been in contact with the Queensland Premier, the Queensland Treasurer, the Queensland Minister for Police or the Queensland Police Commissioner concerning the recent raid by Commonwealth and State Officers at Cedar Bay, on any occasion since the raid took place on 29 August 1976. If so, what are the details? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the name, occupation, date and term of appointment and remuneration of each member of each Social Security Appeals Tribunal. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of an interview with the United States Secretary of Agriculture,  Mr Earl  Butz, which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  dated 2 1 August 1976, in which  Mr Butz  reportedly claimed that Australia was placing its share of the American meat market in grave jeopardy by continuing to abuse the United States Meat Import Quota Act. If so, 
has  Mr Butz  made his criticisms known to the Australian Government, 
b) what abuses are involved, and 
what action has the Minister, his Department, or the Australian Meat Board taken to remove the causes of friction between Australia and the United States of America with relation to meat imports into the latter country. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the Minister's answer to Senate Question No. 1 123, what was the name of the Queensland police officer who requested support from the Bureau of Customs for the police operations at Cedar Bay on 28-29 August 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon nonce: 
Did the Queensland State Police discuss with Federal officials, at any time prior to the police raid at Cedar Bay on 29 August 1 976, the possibility of an escapee from the Cairns watchhouse being present in the Cedar Bay area. If so, what are the details. 
This afternoon the Senate is debating 8 education Bills. The fact that we are debating so many education Bills indicates quite clearly the major role that the Federal Government now plays in Australian education. It is not a new role. The Government has had this role for a long time. It has been increasing steadily and, in fact, it increased at a rapid pace over the past 3 years. The fact that we are debating 8 education Bills also means that we will have limited debate on each one. Because of this I shall cover certain areas of those Bills and I expect that my colleagues will cover other areas. Some of the remarks I make will be complementary to the remarks that have been made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  in his opening speech on these Bills. 
The major role of the Government in education throughout Australia is well indicated if one looks at the expenditure the Government incurs. I have a table which shows the Commonwealth Government outlay on education from the years 1966-67 to 1976-77. It is one of 3 tables I would like to incorporate in  Hansard  during the course of my speech this afternoon. I now seek leave to incorporate this one. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Maunsell)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, it is so ordered. 

<graphic href="070232197611170_37_13.jpg"></graphic>

-I invite honourable senators to look at various aspects of this table. They will see that the outlay on education by the Commonwealth Government increased from $141m in 1966-67 to $l,912m in 1975-76. In other words, it increased by more than 10 times. I use the 1975-76 figures because they are firm figures. If we look at the estimated figure of $2,204m for 1976-77 we will see that the expenditure has increased even more. Perhaps of greater importance in this table is the proportion of the total outlays of the Government which is spent on education. For the year 1966-67 in which the outlay on education was $141m the proportion was 2.5 per cent of the total outlays of the Government. In 1975-76, the last year for which we have final figures, the outlay on education was 8.75 per cent of the total outlays of the Government. There was a steady increase from 1966-67 to 1974-75. In fact, there was a major increase from 1972-73 to 1974-75. In 1975-76 there was a marginal decrease. This was mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition. The proportion of total outlays which will be spent on education this year is estimated to be about 9 per cent. 
I was reminded of the consequences of such outlays on education only last weekend when,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I was in your area of Queensland. I noticed in Innisfail, as you have probably noticed, an education resource centre which had been built from Commonwealth funds. It is nowhere near complete but it has had a vast injection of Commonwealth funds and it is playing an important role in the city of Innisfail. Although the Commonwealth Government has increased its outlay on education, not only in terms of total outlay towards education itself but also as a proportion of the total Budget strategy, I believe that there is no room for us to be complacent about the money we are spending on education. There is certainly every reason for us to spend as much as we are spending at the moment and perhaps even more. I now turn to the value for money concept that  Senator Davidson  mentioned. I think it is important that we, as a responsible Government and a responsible Opposition, should consider this concept. We should be sure that the people who are providing money for education in Australia- the taxpayers- get value for money. If we obtain value for money we will also obtain ever better resources for education. 
I said that I wished to incorporate 3 tables in Hansard. I now seek leave to incorporate the second one which shows public expenditure on education as a percentage of gross national product for 4 countries- the United Kingdom, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United States of America and Australia. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Maunsell)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection it is so ordered. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="070232197611170_38_14.jpg"></graphic>

-Even accepting the point that we must take care when looking at percentage figures on education from varying countries, because of the different ways in which they are compiled, it is illuminating to look at the figures for the 4 countries I mentioned. For instance, in the year 1960 the percentage of public expenditure on education as a percentage of gross national product in the United Kingdom was 4.3 per cent; in the U.S.S.R. it was 5.9 per cent; in the U.S.A. it was 4 per cent; and in Australia it was 2.9 per cent. I have shown figures in this table for I960, 1965, 1970, 1971 and 1 972. When one examines the figures one can see that Australia does not compare favourably with any of these countries. Until 1972 there was a backlog in the amount of money spent on education in Australia as a percentage of GNP, compared with the other 3 countries. The argument I wish to develop from this point is that although we may have increased the amount of money we have spent on education, as a percentage of GNP since 1972 there has been, at least in relation to the 3 countries I have mentioned, somewhat of a backlog in the amount of money spent. I concluded the table at 1972 because it was not possible to obtain figures for the other countries beyond 1972. We should not be complacent at this stage and think that the amount of money we are spending is sufficient, and that perhaps when better times come we can allocate more money to education. 
I come back to the concept of value for money. I believe that, considering the amount of money we are spending on education, we must continually evaluate our education programs. We must continually ensure that what we are spending our money on does give us the type of educational programs that we require to produce the educated citizen we are looking for in this society. There has been a number of comments recently on the various levels of education in Australia querying whether we are getting the right results. For instance, there has been much debate recently about whether the basic education we are providing at the primary school level is satisfactory. I am of the opinion- and this probably is different from the opinion of many honourable senators- that we are certainly not doing any worse in the primary education sphere. I think that perhaps outside the Senate it is even more marked that people are saying we are not doing well in basic skills. Perhaps we are not doing better than we were in recent years but I do not think we are doing any worse. However, there is no reason why we should not evaluate this criticism and find out for sure what is the situation. In secondary education the debate has been not so much on the basic skills but perhaps on the relevancy of courses which are provided at the secondary education level. In the tertiary field I think the arguments have been mainly in respect of the relevancy of the courses which are available and whether we are providing a surplus of graduates in the various fields not only through universities but also in colleges of advanced education and also whether we should be putting our resources into other areas. 
Even though large amounts of money are being provided for education in Australia I believe that there are still some serious deficiencies in specific areas. I think these deficiencies can be somewhat camouflaged if we do not look carefully at specific instances. I do not want to appear as though I am being parochial but I do want to mention some of the aspects of education within the State of Queensland which I represent which show that perhaps we need to spend additional money or there needs to be some evaluation of priorities. In talking about the evaluation of priorities I think it is well to comment that in the field of medical education in my own State of Queensland a report was presented to this Parliament some time ago which talked about the expansion of medical education. It commented on the possibility of medical educational facilities being provided at 2 universities in Queensland which at present do not have them. A somewhat exciting program was put up by the Griffith University, a relatively new university in the Brisbane area. It was exciting because it proposed the establishment of a 3-year clinical medical course. The course was to be restricted to graduates in biological science areas. In other words, once a person had a science degree in biological science he would be able to transfer to the clinical medical course of 3 years duration with some bridging studies in between. 
The personnel at the Griffith University were keen to have this started and to work in cooperation with the new hospital at Mt Gravatt and perhaps the Greenslopes Repatriation Hospital. There was also a proposal that educational facilities for medicine be provided at the James Cook University of North Queensland. The proposal was to have teaching in first year subjects at Townsville, the students would go to Brisbane for their pre-clinical subjects and then return to Townsville for the 4th, 5th and 6th years of the course. I mention this because one of the important facets of this report was that the priorities that should be given to medical education in Queensland- indeed, throughout Australia, but I am speaking specifically of the State that I represent- were evaluated and the priorities were laid down. It was stated that a medical school should in fact be established at the James Cook University of North Queensland by 1980 but if this did not eventuate the Univeristy of Queensland should increase its second-year enrolments. However, it was shown that the proposal for a new medical school at the Griffith University should not be supported in the period under review which was to the 1980s. Unfortunately the proposal to establish a medical school at Townsville has now been shelved until the 1980s. This is a good example of how one should look at the priorities in education and make sure that the programs being pursued are in fact worth while. 
I would like to mention some aspects of the deficiencies which I think exist in education. I refer to certain aspects of the Queensland University. I have spoken in this place before about the Department of External Studies at the Queensland University and some problems which the external studies program is facing. I have mentioned previously that the External Studies Department now has a 3-weekly mailing list, not a weekly mailing list. In fact over the weekend I was speaking to an external studies student from North Queensland who told me that for the whole of the year lecture notes had been sent to him on only three separate occasions. I am not saying this is the fault of this Government. I am pointing out that this Department has found itself to be in such a position that it has had to make expenditure cuts which have resulted in students not receiving their lecture notes on a weekly basis. I did not intend to pursue this matter at any great length because I had mentioned it before but I would like to take to task in as reasonable way as I can Professor John Univeristy of Queensland should the Director of the Department of External Studies at the Queensland University, who was recently reported as saying that this idea of a 3-weekly mailing list is satisfactory. In the  Courier-Mail  of 12 October he was reported as saying: 
It is true that economy measures within the university have created some difficulties for the department, but many of these are being overcome through the more rational use of resources. 
It became necessary, for example, to reduce the frequency of mailings from weekly to three-weekly intervals and, although the new schedule had some teething troubles, since it has settled down there is no evidence that students have been adversely affected. Indeed, student comment suggests that many students prefer the new system. 
I suspect that Professor John Laverty meets many more external students than I, but I do meet many external students and his sentiments are certainly not the sentiments that they have expressed to me. 
As well as the problems facing the Department of External Studies at the Queensland University there have been problems recently in the Department of Journalism. It is a small department but it has a great number of students. I think it is an important department because, as far as I know, it is the only department within Australia which allows for a major in journalism to be taken. At one stage this year it looked as though the department would fold completely next year. It looked as though no lectures would be available. One lecturer left and was not to be replaced. Another lecturer resigned and the third lecturer- there were only 3 lecturers- was due to go on study leave until next year. I believe, that the department has been rescued but I am not sure to what extent. It has certainly created many problems for students in the Department of Journalism. I am informed also that tutorial staff in the Department of Government will be reduced. I simply mention this as an illustration of the point that I made earlier. The fact that the Commonwealth Government is spending large sums of money on education- does not mean that we can be complacent at this stage about that which we are spending. 
I should like to mention some aspects of technical education and to refer specifically to apprentices. In opening the debate for the Opposition on these Bills the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt,  spoke about the fact that in the future we may find ourselves in a situation in which we have insufficient skilled tradesmen for our requirements in Australia. If this is so, it is very important that we provide adequate training facilities for apprentices. When I commenced speaking I mentioned that I had 3 tables which I would like to incorporate in  Hansard.  I refer now to the third table in which I have listed apprenticeship statistics for the years 1970-71 to 1975-76. This shows the number of new indentures and the number of indentures completed in both Queensland and Australia. The Australian figures include those for Queensland. I seek leave to incorporate this table in  Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Melzer)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="070232197611170_40_15.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Senate. If one examines this table one notes a number of disconcerting aspects. In 1970-71 in Queensland the number of new apprentices was 5272. This dropped marginally in 1971-72 to 5234. It dropped quite drastically in 1972-73, increased again for the next year but drastically dropped for the next 2 years. These reductions in the number of apprentices being taken on for the first year will show up in subsequent years when we have fewer skilled tradesmen entering the workforce. It is interesting also to examine the column which shows the number of indentures completed. There should be a three or four year lapse because of the three or four years that it would take to complete the apprenticeship. It is interesting to note in that column that the number of indentures completed is far lower than the number registered for first year apprentices. This seems to indicate to me that the dropout rate for apprentices is far too high. I shall not speak about specific State figures in this debate but if we do inspect State figures we will find that the statistics indicate that the drop-out rate is quite different from State to State. There are probably some educational implications. One of the educational implications that we can draw from the drop-out rate is that perhaps the educational provisions for apprentices are not adequate. I do not say that this is the only problem. There are certainly a number of other factors which cause drop-out rates in apprentices but an educational problem exists, even if it is only a problem of counselling. 
I consider that that is an area that we can look at particularly in the technical education field. We need excellence in the area of technical education. We need excellence in that area as much as we need it in the colleges of advanced education and in universities. I am sure that all of us, if we want a tradesman to do a job for us, hope that he has been trained as best he possibly can be within the educational system in Australia. But looking beyond our personal expectations, the Australian people themselves require skilled tradesmen. They require tradesmen who have had the best possible opportunity for education in Australia. For this reason, I am delighted to be able to support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. In conclusion, I should like to say that education in Australia, as far as this Government is concerned, is now a major business. As I pointed out, I do not think that we have any reason to be complacent in this area. We should be doing all we possibly can to make sure that education in Australia receives the funds that it deserves and that the youngsters who are looking for a sound education receive it because this Commonwealth Government has taken the care that it needs to take in this area. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Did the Brotherhood of St Laurence submit a proposal to the previous Labor Government in November 1975 for a community based job creation program. If so, 
what were the details of the proposal; 
did representatives of the Brotherhood of St Laurence have discussions about the proposal with officers of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations and, if so, when did the discussions take place; and 
what response has the Department given to the Brotherhood of St Laurence. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that the Dean of the University of Queensland's School of Medicine, Professor Eric Saint, in a speech reported in the  Courier-Mail  dated 7 September 1976, has advocated the establishment of a new Commonwealth Commission to control funding of medical education because of the continued neglect of Australian medical schools under the traditional method of funding through the Universities Commission and State Health Departments. If so, is the Minister concerned at the situation, and will he take steps to have Professor Saint's objections and proposals closely studied. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How and when did the Minister first become aware that the police raid at Cedar Bay on 29 August 1976 had taken place. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
With relation to the Minister's reply to Question No. 864 (Senate  Hansard,  5 October 1976) has the Minister received any additional information from the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islander Advancement,  Mr Wharton.  If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What action is the Department of Aboriginal Affairs taking with relation to Aboriginal housing in the Coonamble region of New South Wales, following the concern expressed by the Department's Area Officer at Coonamble and other local spokesmen, and reported in the  Sydney Morning Herald  dated 24 July 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the Department of Aboriginal Affairs meeting the cost of the first 12 months' wages of Aboriginal employees in the work force, as was suggested in an article in the Melbourne  Age  on 17 July 1976. If so, what are the details of the scheme, including the estimated cost for (a) 1 975-76 and (b) 1976-77. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. The Minister will recall that recently in this chamber I spoke on what I consider is the necessity for Telecom Australia to bill subscriber trunk dialling calls separately from local calls. I note that in a news copy which was issued by Telecom on 10 November 1976, commenting on the 1975-76 financial year, Telecom reported as follows: 
The acceptance of do-it-yourself long distance dialling had been borne out by the fact that just over 80 per cent of all trunk calls had been STD calls. 
In the light of the fact that STD calls are not billed separately from local calls, will the Minister advise the Senate how it was determined what percentage of trunk calls were in fact STD calls? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did a United States Air Force transport plane mistakenly attempt to land on Musgrave Street, north Rockhampton during the recent Kangaroo II exercises in Queensland. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Which States have indicated they will continue funding the Australian Assistance Plan when Commonwealth funding of the scheme has been expended. 
Which States have indicated they will not continue funding the Australian Assistance Plan after Commonwealth funding of the scheme has been expended. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
In relation to the reply provided to Question No. 108 1 (Senate  Hansard  20 October 1976) in which the Minister stated, when referring to the Queensland Aboriginal Advisory Council, that 'the Council is therefore intended to be representative of the Aboriginal people living on Aboriginal reserves in Queensland ', is the Council in fact representative of those people. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has there been any curtailment of shipping services by the Australian National Line since 11 November 1973. If so, what are the details. 
I am pleased to be able to support this Bill. It is a comforting experience to know that sometimes the Opposition and the Government in this chamber can work in conjuction for worthwhile national goals. It is worth mentioning that this Bill was really an initiative of the previous Labor Government. In fact, it had a second reading before the Parliament was dissolved last year. The purpose of the Bill is to authorise financial assistance to Queensland for flood mitigation on the Proserpine River. I neglected to mention when I began that, as a senator from Queensland, I intend to speak on the first of the 2 Bills that the  Senator is  now debating, the Queensland Grant (Proserpine Flood Mitigation) Bill. The New South Wales Grant (Namoi River Weirs) Bill has been excellently covered by  Senator Mulvihill. 
I shall mention some of the details which led to this Bill so that we can put it in proper perspective. The floods of December 1973 and early 1974 in Queensland have already been mentioned. These were disastrous floods for many areas of Queensland. In fact, there were disastrous floods in the city of Brisbane in which I live. I suppose it is the first time- hopefully it is the last time- that a lot of citizens of Brisbane have experienced a major flood. The floods affected not only the capital city but also many areas throughout Queensland of which Proserpine was one. Following these disastrous floods the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  wrote early in 1 974 to the Premier of Queensland proposing that an investigation be undertaken of the whole problem of flood mitigation in Queensland. Following  Mr Whitlam  's letter, the Premier wrote on 4 July 1974 requesting a grant of 40 per cent of the total estimated cost of $1.0 17m for flood mitigation works on the Proserpine River to be carried out over the 3 financial years starting from 1974-75. Proposals for the works were set out in a report to the Proserpine Shire Council on Proserpine River flood mitigation prepared by consulting engineers to the shire. 
On 1 1 September 1974 the then Prime Minister wrote to the Premier advising that the Australian Government was prepared to make available a grant of up to $ 120,000 for restoration of levees damaged in the 1 974 floods on the Proserpine River. The offer was conditional, as this Bill is, that the State match the grant on a dollar for dollar basis and that the Proserpine River Improvement Trust provided $ 1 for each $2 provided by the State. On 10 October 1974 the Premier of Queensland accepted the offer from the Australian Government. Subsequently, the Queensland Grant (Proserpine Flood Mitigation) Act 1 974 was passed. This authorised assistance of $120,000 towards flood mitigation works on the Proserpine River. Further investigations were carried out following that assistance. Those investigations led towards this Bill which provides that $374,400 be made available by way of non-repayable grant. This amount represents 40 per cent of the total cost. Forty per cent will be borne by the Queensland Government and 20 per cent by the Proserpine River Improvement Trust. 
Some earlier speakers have described the area. I will mention a few other aspects of the Proserpine area where these river improvements will take place and, in fact, are taking place at the moment. In the area cane is grown to a large extent on river flats. Because it is grown on river flats it is grown on very good soil for cane. Therefore, the cane crops are quite valuable. The town is built around the river and the mill is in the town. It is probable that in hindsight the people of Proserpine would like the town to be away from the mill, perhaps on higher ground but the town is in its present position and it has to be protected against floodwaters. The area is a principal sugar producing area of Queensland. In 1974-75 about 940 000 tonnes of cane went through the Proserpine mill. The value of this was about $34m. It was mentioned earlier that this was a very wet year and thus much cane was left in the field. In 1975-76 932 000 tonnes of cane went through the mill at a value of about $30m. 
Parts of the town of Proserpine are subject to flooding. It is to be hoped that some of the work being carried out at the moment will alleviate the flooding in the town. The mill would not be subject to flooding unless there were a large flood and a break in the levee close to the mill.  Senator Keeffe  indicated earlier the massive destruction that followed the floods in 1973-74. So far work has been carried out on the assumption, I presume, that this legislation will go through the Parliament. Levees have been built and re-built, the river has been deepened in parts and the banks have been cleared. This should assist the town and some of the farms in the area in times of normal flooding. If there is exceptional flooding, as occurred during the cyclone in 1973 and the rains that followed early in 1 974, there will probably still be some flooding of the area. However, levees have been built and works carried out to protect against the normal flooding experienced there. Many of the farmers in the area have undertaken extensive work at their own expense. A great deal of self help is evident on the Proserpine area. In fact, in the part of the river into which the floodwaters flow, which is called the breakaway, a group of farmers have built a long levee over recent times. It is about a kilometre in length and I believe that the Trust had costed this levee at about $400,000. The farmers think that they built this levee themselves probably at a lesser cost because they provided their own labour and a lot of machinery which was required. As well they built it in conjunction with the Trust so that it is in line with what the Trust would expect to have provided in that area if it had the funds and the opportunity to do more work. This levee is further downstream from where the Trust's activities are taking place at present. 
There may be a problem in the Trust's activities with regard to the escalation of costs. The work that is being carried out at the moment is being carried out in the best way possible to contain costs, but it must be remembered that the estimate of the amount required was made some time ago and inflation will affect it. If inflation affects what is able to be done, it will be very difficult for the Proserpine River Improvement Trust to carry out the work with funds of its own, because the Trust's only source of funds is the 
Proserpine Shire, which has a very small area on which it can levy rates. The total valuation of the Shire is about Slim, and that includes government property. The total valuation for rateable purposes is about only $6m. So it would not be possible for the Proserpine Shire to bear the whole of the cost. 
I believe that a further submission is being presented or has been presented to the State and Commonwealth governments for further work on the Proserpine River. I presume that this submission will be given due consideration. I am hopeful that if it comes before this Parliament it will receive the same sort of consideration as this Bill has received. As I said earlier, I am pleased to support the Bill. It is encouraging to see both sides at times working in harmony towards the achievement of what is a proper goal for this nation. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the Government considering a Treasury recommendation that the Government withdraw funding of the Centre for Research of Federal Financial Relations based at the Australian National University in Canberra. If so, 
when is it likely that a final decision will be taken; 
what funds have been provided by the Australian Government to the Centre since its establishment; and 
what liaison currently exists between the Centre, the Australian Government, and State Governments. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Why are copies of the report entitled  Public Libraries in Australia  in short supply at the present time, and in fact unavailable from the Australian Government Publication Centre in Brisbane. 
How many copies of the report in question have been printed to date. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Why are copies of the report entitled  Some Consequences of the Radford Scheme for Schools, Teachers and Students  in short supply at the present time, and in fact unavailable from the Australian Government Publication Centre in Brisbane. 
How many copies of the report in question have been printed to date. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Why are copies of the report entitled  Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry  in short supply at the present time, and in fact unavailable from the Australian Government Publication Centre in Brisbane. 
How many copies of the report in question have been printed to date. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Why are copies ofthe 'Green ' Report on Broadcasting in Australia in short supply at the present time, and in fact unavailable from the Australian Government Publication Centre in Brisbane. ° 
How many copies ofthe report in question have been printed to date. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Was the suggestion of the creation of a Department of Productivity canvassed at the Third National Productivity Conference held recently in Melbourne. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Why is birds' nest soup not allowed to be imported into Australia, as was suggested by  Mr Gilbert  Lau in the article Making Do without Roast Goose', by Virginia Duigan, in the  National Times  dated 8-13 November 1976. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) How many members are there on the Minister for Productivity's personal staff. 
What are their (a) names, (b) designations, and (c) salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which Departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
Are or have any advisers and consultants been employed by the Minister; if so, what are their (a) names, (b) salaries, (c) responsibilities, and (d) are they full-time or part-time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
What is the total funding provided under the Regional Employment Development scheme in the State of Queensland since the inception of the scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
Has the Minister, in his capacity as Deputy Prime Minister, been in contact with the Queensland Premier, the Queensland Treasurer, the Queensland Minister for Police or the Queensland Police Commissioner concerning the recent raid by Commonwealth and State Officers at Cedar Bay, on any occasion since the raid took place on 29 August 1 976; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the full text of the letter sent by the Public Service Board to all Commonwealth departments requesting details of surplus staff referred to in an article in the Melbourne newspaper, the  Age  dated 30 September 1976. 
What action does the Public Service Board intend taking on advice received from each department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) In the light of recent suggestions within the Australian community that the Australian Broadcasting Commission be forced to accept the placement of commercial advertising along the lines of the Canadian experience, will the Minister advise whether (a) radio commercials, with certain exceptions, were discontinued by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation from 31 March 1975, (b) commercial messages have been removed from television programs for children by the CBC, and (c) other advertising on CBC television is being greatly reduced. 
Can the Minister provide any further details on 1 (a), (b), and (c) 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has Australia's overseas aid budget been increased by 400 per cent in the 1976-77 Budget, as was claimed by the Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  in a Press release dated 13 October 1976. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Why has the vacancy for a Clerical Assistant Grade 1 in the Commonwealth Parliament Offices in Brisbane not been filled. 
What effect is the reduced staffing level having on the operation and effectiveness of the administration of the Commonwealth Parliament offices in Brisbane. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Have members of the personal staff of the Minister for Productivity provided the Minister with details of their respective pecuniary interests. If so, will the Minister advise the Senate of the details provided. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has the Minister investigated a report in the Brisbane  Sunday Mail  on 7 November 1976, that residents of Palm Island have protested at the Royal Australian Air Force using an Aboriginal sacred area, Cordelia Rock, as a target for bombing practice. If so, (a) what have the investigations shown, and (b) what further action does the Minister intend taking. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Was the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia consulted prior to the creation of the Department of Productivity. If so, what are the details. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. I believe that the problem to which I shall refer prevails not only in the Department of Veterans' Affairs but also in the Department of Social Security. However, as I believe that I must confine myself to a question of one Minister, I ask the Minister for Veterans' Affairs: As eligibility for pensions is now based on income, can he inform the Senate when new application forms for a Service pension will become available so that questions as assets need no longer be answered by applicants? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister seen the Toowoomba newspaper  The Chronicle  of 30 September 1976, in which the Queensland Treasurer,  Mr Knox,  is quoted as saying that 'existing decentralised cities such as Toowoomba must have the opportunity to share in future regional growth and decentralisation programs' and that future funds for regional growth centres must not be squandered in New South Wales and Victoria '. 
Has the Queensland Government approached the Commonwealth Government on any occasion since 1 1 November 1975 with any requests for funds for growth centre programs. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the International Labour Organisation Convention on Indigenous and Tribal Populations not able to be ratified by Australia because of objections by the Queensland Government. If so, (a) is the only disagreement between the Australian and Queensland Governments on this matter that which concerns the definition of ownership of land and, if so, what are the current positions of the Australian and Queensland Governments in relation to the term ownership; (b) if not, what other differences are there between the two Governments. 
) What is the full text of the latest advice from the Prime Minister to the Queensland Government, referred to in the Queensland Premier's reply to a question in the Queensland Parliament on 20 October 1976. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many appeals relating to (a) unemployment benefit, (b) sickness benefit, (c) age pension, (a) invalid pension, and (e) supporting mothers benefit were dealt with in each State by Social Security Appeals Tribunals in the September Quarter. 
2 ) What are the detailed results of the appeals in question corresponding to the headings provided in the Minister's answer to Senate Question No. 130,  vide  Senate  Hansard,  4 May 1976, page 1515. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
In relation to the answer to Question No. 922, were categories of appeals dealt with in each State by each Social Security Appeals Tribunal other than those categories mentioned in Question No. 922 for the two quarters mentioned in Question No. 922. If so, what were these benefits and, for the three separate quarters ending March, June and September 1976, what are the detailed results of the appeals in question corresponding to the headings provided in the Minister's answer to Senate Question No. 130,  vide  Senate  Hansard.  4 May 1 976, page 1515. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With respect to the question of intrastate trading by vessels of the Australian National Line, (a) what is the form of discussions currently taking place between the Australian Government and the Queensland Government, referred to by the Premier of Queensland in answer to a question on notice in the Queensland Parliament on 23 September 1976; (b) what is the 'certain information' from the Australian Department of Transport that, according to the Premier in his reply, is being awaited by the Queensland Government in order that further consideration can be given to the possibility of intrastate trading being carried out per medium of the Australian National Line, and (c) when is it likely that agreement will be reached between the two Governments. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that, in the Queensland Parliament on 30 September 1976, in answer to a question without notice, the Queensland Minister for Health,  Dr Edwards,  said he knew of no legislative restriction on Queenslanders joining private health funds in other States to take advantage of lower rates of health insurance. If so, (a) was the Queensland Minister for Health correct, and what are the details; (b) does the situation apply to all States; and (c) how should persons make the application for health insurance in a State other than that in which the persons' names appear on the electoral roll. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Education by remarking that I have noticed that some post-secondary educational institutions in Brisbane are competing for students by offering courses of a similar nature. I refer in particular to some departments of the University of Queensland and the Queensland Institute of Technology. At times, the competition for students has become quite overt. Whilst there may be some value in such competition, I question whether this is in the best interests of the community, given the scarcity of resources available for education. Can the Minister advise whether any mechanism is available to the Commonwealth to ensure that unnecessary duplication of courses does not occur at postsecondary educational institutions in Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Why has the term 'Given Name' on Medibank Claim Forms been replaced by ' Christian or Given Names '. 
-Did the Minister for Education recently receive a letter from the University of Queensland Academic Staff Association which states, amongst many other things, that in particular the situation concerning supplementation remains unclear and if devaluation were to occur it would add to the University's difficulties? If so, has the Minister given consideration to the points and requests raised by the Association? Can he inform the Senate of any decisions he may have made in relation to the Association's letter? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Science been drawn to an article entitled 'The Importance of Flood Forecasting' by the late Crawford Munro, Emeritus Professor of Civil Engineering at the University of New South 
Wales, which appeared in the  Sun Herald  dated 14 November 1976 and in which Professor Munro vividly detailed the enormous service provided to the nation by the hydrometeorological service of the Bureau of Meteorology? If so, is the Minister concerned by Professor Munro 's claim that the aims of the service in relation to the mitigation of flood damage and the control and development of water resources are not being achieved as accurately as desired at present because of the inadequacy of funds for sophisticated instruments? Will the Minister take whatever action is necessary to ensure that this vital operation is not constricted by lack of funds and assistance from the Federal Government? 
-In supporting this Bill, which establishes the office of the Commonwealth Ombudsman, I join with the 2 previous speakers. In fact; I share the enthusiasm indicated by  Senator Missen  when he opened his remarks in support of this Bill. Such an office exists in many countries throughout the world. Most honourable senators would be aware that such an office first emerged in the Scandinavian countries last century. The word, however, has its origin in Germanic law, I believe, even though it later became somewhat different when it was adapted for the use that it has now. It took a long time for some countries to see that the role of the ombudsman was an excellent role in government. New Zealand saw that before any of us did in Australia, in that in 1962 an ombudsman was appointed there. However, no Australian States appointed an ombudsman in the 1960s. It was not until the 1970s that such an appointment was made. 
As the previous speaker mentioned, all the mainland States now have such an office. The first State to appoint an ombudsman was Western Australia, where an ombudsman was appointed in 1972 under the Parliamentary Commissioner Act. In fact, of the 5 States that now have an ombudsman or a person in an office of such a nature, 2 States- South Australia and Queensland- have appointed them under a Parliamentary Commissioner Act and the other 3 States have appointed them under an Ombudsman Act. The second State to make such an appointment was South Australia, again in 1 972. This was followed in 1973 by Victoria, in 1974 by Queensland, and in 1975 by New South Wales. 
Through my experience as a parliamentary representative I have seen a need for a reviewing process of some kind. This office will provide just one of the reviewing processes available to people throughout Australia. I am sure that other honourable senators would have had different experiences from mine with regard to reviewing processes needed in the special areas in which they have interest. My principal interest has permitted me on a number of occasions to experience a reviewing process in my dealings with the Social Security Appeals Tribunal. This happens because of the large number of people I meet who have problems in this direction and who eventually go before the Tribunal to have what they believe to be a wrong corrected. 
It is interesting to note that a large number of appeals go through this Tribunal. I have been given some figures for certain quarters of this year which show the magnitude of the number of people who feel that they have been wronged in this particular area. I shall take some of the figures from one quarter as an illustration. For the first quarter of this year in New South Wales a total of 405 people appealed to the Social 
Security Appeals Tribunal in respect of the payment of just one benefit, that is, the unemployment benefit. Not all of those appeals were decided upon in that quarter, but 23 1 appeals were finalised in that quarter, of which 53 appeals were upheld. This means that about 23 per cent of the people who actually went before that Tribunal were found to have been wronged and had their appeals upheld. Other States do not have the same success rate. South Australia for the same quarter had 147 appeals in respect of unemployment benefits finalised, of which 32 appeals were upheld, representing a 2 1 per cent success rate, if one may use that term. Other States had somewhat lower rates of success. 
The point I make is that in respect of just one type of appeal in one quarter of this year a great number of people have considered they were wronged and have been able to go to the Tribunal to see whether they could have that wrong remedied. From my experience I candidly still disagree with some of the decisions that have been made. The way I read clause 5 (2) of the Bill suggests to me that in extreme cases one perhaps then could refer such a case to the ombudsman if it was thought that a wrong decision had still been done. 
I suppose that parliamentary representatives are in some respects ombudsmen for their constituents. In this chamber we would receive fewer representations of this nature from constituents, except perhaps for the senators from the Territories, than do members of the House of Representatives who have much closer contact with their constituents than the majority of honourable senators do. Nevertheless, we in this chamber sometimes act in the role of local ombudsmen. Certainly the role that people in the parliaments adopt can never be as effective as that of an ombudsman whose office is set up by an act of this Parliament, but the number of cases we see suggests to me that there is a danger that once the ombudsman is appointed his office will become clogged with cases if the cases which are referred to him have not had a great deal of work done on them beforehand. I believe that if many cases that are referred to an ombudsman were pursued more fully by the complainant they could be quite easily rectified and would not have to go to the ombudsman at all.  His  office will be an important one and I would not like to see it clogged with cases before all other avenues have been tried. 

 Senator Missen mentioned that he thought there should be extreme care taken in the appointment of the ombudsman and I share that concern. He said that there were 5 qualities that perhaps an ombudsman should have. I noted some of them; I think independence and impartiality were two. But I think that the honourable senator should have added that the ombudsman must not only have those 5 qualities but also must be seen to have them not only by people in the Parliament but also by people in the community who would then know that this person was of such a high quality that they could have faith in the ombudsman who had been appointed to be their guardian in respect of certain administrative decisions. 
I favour the idea that the ombudsman should be appointed with the general agreement of both Houses of the Parliament although that provision is not part of the Bill. Clause 21 (1) provides that he is to be appointed by the GovernorGeneral. However, if for certain reasons the ombudsman is to be removed from his post he can be removed only by a resolution of both Houses of the Parliament. I am not suggesting that we change the Bill at this stage but it seems to me that this aspect could be looked at in the future. If both Houses of the Parliament have to be consulted in that instance perhaps we could also see that when the ombudsman is appointed both Houses of the Parliament are consulted. I reiterate that I think the office is so important that great care will have to be taken in the appointment of an ombudsman. 
This Bill will give added protection to the individual. Each person in Australia is faced, perhaps not daily but quite often, with a wide variety of administrative decisions which affect his life. Usually these administrative decisions do not cause any undue worry but at some stage they do for some people when they are placed in this situation and some people do not have any idea of the remedies that are available to them. In a wide variety of cases there will not be any need for a person to go to the ombudsman but the office will be there and it will be available to people who believe they have been wronged by some administrative decision and they will be able to take that matter to the ombudsman to be rectified. I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
How and when did the Minister first become aware that the police raid at Cedar Bay on 29 August 1976 had taken place. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade on 11 November 1976 the following question, upon notice: 
Have South African port authorities placed an order worth $11.5m for the 'Briskar' straddle carrier, designed at the Hamilton container terminal of Brisbane Wharves and Wool Dumping Pty Ltd licensees, Dorman Long Vanderbiji Corporation Ltd. If so, 
what are the details of the order; 
is the arrangement consistent with United Nations' policy on trade with South Africa; and 
does the order indicate a change in Australia's trading policy towards South Africa; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Why was Hobart included, along with Sydney and Melbourne, in the housing allowance voucher experiment recently announced by the Australian Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Queensland Government made any submissions since 11 November 1975 for funding assistance for (a) the Julius Dam at Mount Isa, (b) the Bundaberg irrigation scheme, (c) transport services in Brisbane, and (d) repair of storm damage at Toowoomba; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that the Queensland Government has granted a mining purposes lease and a forestry grazing permit in the Fraser Island National Park to Murphyores Incorporated Pty Ltd as outlined in the  Courier-Mail  on 15 October 1976. If so, 
what are the details, 
when did the Minister first learn of the Queensland Government's actions, and 
what steps does the Minister intend taking as a result of the Queensland Government 's actions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Why did daylight saving not commence in the Northern Territory on 1 November 1976. 
I think that honourable senators on both sides of this chamber would accept that in Australia those who want to own their own home should be able to do so. They should have ready access to the funds that are required to become a home owner. People in need should be able to look towards the Government to provide them with some assistance in becoming a home owner. There would be very few people in today's society- in fact, this would apply to any time in Australia's history- who would be able to purchase their first home without any financial assistance. Some people do not have the financial background to be able to embark upon home ownership; without some funds of their own they cannot obtain the finance that is required for home ownership. It seems to me that in this situation a society that places great emphasis on home ownership should be able to provide through governmental agencies some incentive and some assistance to a person so that he is able to obtain further finance and eventually own his own home. I am afraid that the legislation that is before the Senate at the moment does not provide the type of assistance that I would like to see provided by the Commonwealth Government. 
I was rather taken aback by some of the statements of  Senator Archer.  I think some of them were quite glib. Some of his statements indicated that there was a shallow depth of feeling for the people of Australia who want to own their own home. For example, the honourable senator said that we should help those who wish to help themselves. Of course we should, but we should also try to help those people who are trying to build homes but who do not have adequate financial resources, not through any fault of their own, and who therefore cannot start a home ownership program. We should not help only those who wish to help themselves, but we should also help those who through no fault of their own cannot at this stage help themselves. 
It seems to me that the philosophy of the previous  speaker  on this aspect was shown very clearly in the remarks towards the end of his speech when he indicated that it was quite freely agreed that the $2,000 grant which will be available under this legislation at some time in the future can be used for purposes other than home ownership. He said that it can be used for any purpose at all. He went into a long list of places to which a person could take a trip. I jotted the first two down- Bali and Bangkok. Then he ranged all over the globe. Then he said- it was almost unbelievable: 'We do not give a damn what they do with it, it is their money.' It is not their money at all. It is money provided to people to help them to have a home. It is money provided hopefully so that people will become home owners. I do not see that under the legislation the people who are going to have a difficult task even in embarking on a savings program are going to be helped. 
If we were to go around the community we would find many people who would like to save but who just cannot save. Imagine the person with a young family and all the associated expenses who cannot get into a house of his own or a house that he is going to pay off, and therefore has to pay for rented accommodation. If he has to pay for rented accommodation his outlays with all the other outlays for his family are very high and he is going to be hard pressed to save at all. I have come across many people in this same situation this year who really wanted to save so that they could obtain a deposit for a house and therefore enjoy one of the goals which most people in Australia look forward to reaching. These people I have come in contact with have not been able to set aside the money they would like to be able to save. I have also come across people on average incomes who have been trying to save but then suddenly have found themselves out of a job and in a long period of unemployment they have had to draw on their meagre savings which they had and then go back to paying rent when they obtained another job. 
I have seen people in my own State of Queensland actively looking for work, travelling around looking for work. They are not the people who are maligned by many who talk about the unemployed. They are actively looking for work. When they find it they go into rented accommodation in one of the areas outside of the capital and provincial cities in Queensland, but they cannot save the $40 a week that is required to entitle them to this grant. It is the people who already have secure incomes, the people who already have some finance behind them who will benefit from this legislation. We do not say that they should not benefit. Of course it is a great thing if people can be given assistance in the outlay that will be the major outlay in the whole of their lives, but assistance should be provided also for those people who cannot get a reasonable start. There is probably some alternative to this and there should be some alternatives too. 
Let me just mention some of the statistics that I have obtained for the State of Queensland which I represent. Let me mention two independent reports which were produced following the release of the August and September figures on new dwelling approvals. New dwelling approvals in Queensland for the month of August were 14.4 per cent of the Australian total. At first appearance that proportion would seem to be a good one because the population of Queensland represents 14.8 per cent of the Australian population. However, the picture in Queensland appeared satisfactory for that month only because of the effect of the New South Wales percentage of the Australian total. The industry was hit to an extreme low in New South Wales in August where despite that State's population being 35.5 per cent of the Australian population new dwelling approvals represented only 24.9 per cent of the Australian total for August 1976. These figures indicate that there were problems not only in New South Wales but also in Queensland. It was revealed that activity in the residential building industry declined during September. An increase in contract building was more than offset by a fall in speculation activity. 
Not only is there difficulty for people in obtaining the type of housing they want but also there appears to be difficulties throughout the nation in home building and home building approvals. One of the major difficulties of courseand one of the costs which I think a previous  speaker  just skimmed over- is the cost of land. I will illustrate the conditions which prevail in the capital city of the State that I represent. If one wants to buy a piece of land one could not logically expect to get it under $6,000. Perhaps the mean price would be somewhere about $10,000. I can recall, say, seven or eight years ago, when the cost of land would have been within a person's reach, but is land costing $6,000 or $ 10,000 going to be within the reach of the ordinary person? It seems to me despite what was said previously that there is a need in Australia for a land scheme so that the price of land can be kept at a reasonable level. For a start, if people are not going to be able to afford the price of land how are they then going to be able to go ahead and build what they hope will be their home for the future? There are other areas in which people can be helped. They can be assisted not only by land price schemes or land price controls of some son but also by the provision of various types of welfare housing. 
It is upsetting to many members of Parliament to see coming to their office constituents who are in poor circumstances through no fault of their own. I refer to people such as deserted mothers or people who for a long time have been receiving unemployment benefit or sickness benefit and who find that they cannot keep up the payments on the rented accommodation in which they are living and that therefore they are forced to go into substandard housing. It is disconcerting to realise that very little can be done to help those people. I am talking of the situation which exists in the State that I represent. Despite the fact that some welfare housing is available in that State, thousands of people are on the waiting list to go into those houses. Why cannot proper housing be made available for people who find themselves in situations such as that? Why can we not look at the possibility of introducing deferred mortgage payments schemes or something like that to help the people on low incomes? Home ownership is a goal that every Australian should be able to look forward to achieving- to own their own home, to have a home for their dependants. 
There is some merit in this Bill, of course. One point of merit is that some people who are able to save will be able to obtain a grant from the Commonwealth Government as a result of that saving. However, there is a deficiency in the home ownership program in Australia, because the people who financially cannot get on their feet immediately cannot move into a house or embark upon a savings program so that they can begin to save for a house. I commend the amendment that has been moved to the motion: 'That the Bill be now read a second time ', which reads:  but the Senate is of the opinion that this scheme does not recognise that each household in Australia is entitled to adequate and conveniently located accommodation at a price which does not impose too great a strain on household resources, rather it perpetuates existing inequalities. 
It refers to inequalities that we should not accept in a nation such as ours. It refers to the existing inequalities in relation to services that should be available to Australian people and in relation to those goals to which we all look forward to achieving. I hope that housing schemes will be provided, not only through the Federal Government but also through the State governments, which will allow people to embark upon a program of home ownership. 
I commend those parts of the legislation which provide for people who save to be able to receive a grant from the Government. I commend those parts because they will help the majority of people who do receive the grant. The majority of those people who receive this grant will not spend it imprudently. I can recall that when my wife and I bought our first house we received a grant under the homes savings grant scheme. Of course, in those days the grant was not $2,000; it was $500. Like many other people who received such a grant at that stage I think we used it prudently. We used it to buy furniture for our house. If we had not received the grant we would have lagged belling in our program of furnishing the house and we may, indeed, have had a house empty of furniture. I think that most of the people who receive the grant will use it prudently; perhaps not in the same way that I used it, but in meeting the costs involved in building their own home. 
I believe that a gap exists. It is related to people who, through no real fault of their own, find it difficult to start saving so that they can purchase their own home. I have outlined how that might happen. Those people eventually will find it difficult not only to build their home but also to qualify for the grant. I look forward to the time when we are able to provide adequate assistance not only for those who have some security but also for those who are finding it difficult and who will continue to find it difficult if some assistance is not given. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to comments by  Dr Austair  Gilmour, Assistant Director of Marine Pollution Studies in the Victorian Conservation Ministry, as reported in the  Courier-Mail  on 10 November 1976, that there is an urgent need for research into potential effects of continuing oil spillages on the Great Barrier Reef. If so, 
what are the details of research into this subject currently being undertaken with funds provided by the Australian Government; 
b ) has the Government made any attempt to encourage the oil industry to fund such research; and 
does the Minister intend taking any steps as a result of the claims and suggestions made by  Dr Gilmour  in his Paper to the Marine Oil Pollution Convention in Brisbane on 9 November 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade the following question, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of food shortages in Poland, as outlined in an article entitled 'Poland's Complaint' in  Newsweek  magazine of 15 November 1976. If so, what action is the Australian Government taking to encourage the Polish Government to buy Australian produce. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Has the Minister, or the Australian Electoral Office, investigated the possibilities of introducing the use of electronic voting machines in Federal Elections in Australia, similar to machines used in United States elections. If so, what was the result of the investigation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the Department of Foreign Affairs trying to harass the Australian Ambassador to Yugoslavia,  Mr Booker,  into retirement as was claimed by  Mr Booker  in an article in the  Courier-Mail  dated 26 November 1976. If so, what are the details. 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to the case of a young person who this year worked for S months in a store and later in a labouring job but who currently finds himself unemployed. If he now decides that he will return to school next year but actively seeks work until then, will he currently be regarded as a school leaver for the purposes of receiving the unemployment benefit, even though he has been away from school for one year? 
asked the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs, upon notice: 
What pension entitlements and additional benefits are currently provided for British ex-servicemen and women residents in Australia who are aged 60 years and over. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Social Security by stating that it is not based on a newspaper report. Can the Minister advise what documents an appellant to a Social Security Appeals Tribunal is entitled to view before the appeal is considered? I also ask: Is an appellant entitled to be represented by some other person at an appeals tribunal hearing? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What has been the total civilian employment in the Department of Defence in each year since 1 970. 
Is it correct that the Department is to suffer a cut of nearly 4 per cent in its civilian employment as reported in the  Canberra Times  on 2 1 August 1976. If so, (a) how many persons will be affected; (b) in which areas of the Department will civilian starring cuts be made; (c) have the cuts resulted from a comprehensive review of the Department's civilian staffing requirements and, if so, what are the details; (d) what effect will the civilian staffing cut-back have on the operations and effectiveness of (i) the Department of Defence and (ii) the Armed Services; and (e) will service personnel be required to perform duties currently undertaken by civilian employees as a result of these new arrangements and, if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
With reference to the Minister's reply to Senate Question No. 447 relating to the establishment of a National Rural Bank: 
Has the working group been set up to investigate the proposal. If so, when was the working group set up, what is its charter, what is its composition and when is it likely to report back to the Minister. 
What other action, if any, has the Minister taken to investigate and draft a definite program for the establishment of a National Rural Bank in line with the Government's 1975 election promise. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the attention of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs been drawn to an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 7 September 1976, in which his spokesman was reported as stating that the small proportion of Aborigines employed in Public Service Third Division clerical positions was not the result of educational barriers, and that the Public Service Board waived educational requirements for Aborigines. If so, is a lack of formal educational qualifications not a barrier preventing the promotion of suitably experienced Aborigines within the Public Service. 
Have any in-service training courses been conducted since I January 1976 to ensure that Aborigines without matriculation are promoted to Public Service Third Division positions. 
If the answer to (2) is in the affirmative, what are the courses, what has been the duration of these courses, and how many Aborigines have attended. 
How many positions have been established to train and develop Aborigines within the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and, of these positions: ( a) how many are filled on a permanent basis; (b) how many on a temporary basis; (c) how many are vacant; (d) have any of the occupants of these positions been transferred to duties not connected with the training and development of Aboriginal staff; (e) if any of the positions are unfilled, or if any officers have been seconded, what is the reason for this situation. 
How many of the training officers responsible for the training of Aboriginal staff within the Department of Aboriginal Affairs are themselves Aborigines. 
What priority does the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs give to the training and development program for Aboriginal staff who may lack formal educational qualifications but who, nevertheless, possess qualities that allow them to deal effectively with other Aborigines. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) With relation to the Minister's reply to Question No. 1000 relating to funds provided by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in the Kempsey area of New South Wales, what action did the Department take to correct the false impression provided by the letter from Reverend A. J. Beard published in the  Sun Herald o(  29 August 1 976. 
In particular, did the Department write for publication to the Editor of the  Sun Herald  with a view to providing the reading public with comprehensive answers to the allegations contained in Reverend Beard 's letter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What funds were provided in the 1976-77 Budget for the Queensland Government's Aboriginal rehousing program. 
What form does the Queensland Government's Aboriginal rehousing program take. 
Is the 1976-77 allocation of funds to Queensland for the Aboriginal rehousing program insufficient to allow completion of the homes presently under construction. If so, what are the details. 
What direct steps is the Australian Government taking to provide housing for Aboriginals in Queensland outside the State Government 's program. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
With relation to the statement by the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement in the Estimates debate in the Queensland Parliament on 26 October 1 976, in which  Mr Wharton  claimed that 'radical changes in policy implemented by the Commonwealth Government in recent years seem likely to extinguish completely or, at least, drastically reduce the levels of Commonwealth financial aid to Queensland for matters associated with Aboriginal welfare ', is the Department of Aboriginal Affairs engaged in implementing a continuing policy of 'isolating, bypassing and ignoring' the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement, as has been claimed by  Mr Wharton.  If so, (a) what are the details, and (b) why has the Australian Department of Aboriginal Affairs been unable to establish a climate of liaison and co-operation with the Queensland Department in order to develop programs for Aboriginal advancement and to take maximum advantage of available funding. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is the Attorney-General aware of a statement by the Queensland Police Commissioner,  Mr Whitrod,  reported in the  Courier-Mail  of 5 November 1976, that Australian law enforcement is not succeeding in its prime task, despite increased effectiveness by individual segments. If so, will the Attorney-General investigate the advisability of the suggested options indicated by  Mr Whitrod,  viz: (a) the adoption of 'reliable techniques' for assessing the degree of effectiveness in Australian law enforcement with sufficient certainty; (b) the establishment of a national forum of senior police officers; (c) expansion of the Australian Crime Prevention Council to provide for civilian participation; and (d) the establishment of a national council on crime and delinquency, with a view to recommending their adoption to the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has Telecom of Australia, in Brisbane, been approached by Medibank to have Medibank contributions deducted regularly from staff salaries. If not, what is the reason for Medibank 's failure in this regard. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Has the Minister investigated claims made in an article entitled Killing a Million Clams a Year by  Dr Robert  Endean, Reader in Zoology at Queensland University, in the 

 Australian of 9 November 1976, that the giant clam is in danger of extinction. If so: 
what conclusion has the Minister reached from those investigations, and 
what further action does the Minister intend taking. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When is it expected that the Sixth Annual Report on the Operations of the Registered Medical Benefits and Hospital Benefits Organisations, for the year ended 30 June 1976, will be tabled in the Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What is (a) the name, (b) designation, and (c) salary and entitlements of each member of the Governor-General 's domestic and office staff. 
Have there been any resignations and departures from the Governor-General's domestic and office staff since 11 
November 1975. If so, for what reasons have the resignations or departures concerned taken place. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What is (a) the name, (b) designation, and (c) salary and entitlements of each defence force officer who, since 1 1 November 1975, has departed from the Governor-General's personal staff. 
To what posting did any such officer or officers move following his or her departure from the Governor-General's staff. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Medibank Review Committee undertake a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis of all features of the Medibank scheme prior to making recommendations to the Government or changes to the scheme. If so, what form did the cost-benefit analysis take. 
Does the Government intend to undertake a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis of all components of the current health insurance scheme after it has been in operation for a period of time. If so, when. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What is (a) the name, (b) designation, and (c) salary and entitlements of each present and past member of the Governor-General's personal, domestic and office staff who took up duty after 1 1 November 1975. 
) What position was held by each member referred to in ( 1 ) prior to his or her joining the Governor-General 's staff. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What action is the Public Service Board currently taking with regards to the administration of Aboriginal affairs by Australian Government Departments, including the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
Has the Public Service Board seconded staff from other Departments to assist in planning future Aboriginal affairs administrative arrangements. If so, who is involved. 
Which inter-departmental committees currently exist to investigate administrative arrangements relating to Aboriginal affairs administration by the Australian Government, and what is their composition. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What action has the Government taken to implement the Report of the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Member of Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
When will the Minister announce full details of the household support scheme to be provided under the Rural Reconstruction Scheme. 

 -Mr President, I am not aware whether I should ask my question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate or of you, but I shall ask the question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate and I presume that in the spirit of goodwill that exists at this time, if I misdirect the question it can be redirected. In relation to the Senate stationery store, is it a fact that no new orders are currently being placed for stationery and associated requisites? If so, is this situation due to current lack of funds? When will the position be remedied so that honourable senators are able to receive those materials which are necessary for them to carry out their duties adequately? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What funds did the Queensland Government request from the Australian Government in (a) 1975-76, and (b) 1976-77 for programs of Aboriginal advancement. 
What funds did the Queensland Government receive from the Australian Government in (a) 1975-76 and (b) 1 976-77 for programs of Aboriginal advancement. 
What reasons did the Commonwealth advance for the difference between the amount requested and the amount received by the Queensland Government in (a) 1 975-76 and (b) 1976-77. 
To what funding was the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islander Advancement referring when he alleged in the Queensland Parliament on 26 October 1 976 that further millions are diverted under Commonwealth policy to various organisations, many of which have been unable to exercise the degrees of economic management necessary to ensure maximum benefit from the funds provided'. 
Is  Mr Wharton  accurate in his claim, referred to in (4), of poor economic management on the part of some Aboriginal organisations in Queensland which have received Commonwealth funding. If so, (a) to which organisation was  Mr Wharton  referring, and (b) what steps are currently taken by the Australian Department of Aboriginal Affairs to ensure proper accounting of Commonwealth funding provided to Aboriginal organisations. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the details of each occasion on which the Governor-General has been accompanied by a chef when travelling by VIP aircraft. 
Why was it necessary for the Governor-General to be accompanied by a chef on each ofthe occasions listed in ( 1 ). 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
When does the Minister expect to receive details from the Bureau of Meteorology relating to cyclone warnings, which he agreed to obtain when replying to a question without notice asked by  Senator Colston  in the Senate on 9 November, 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister sought details of the deaths of at least 33 people in the United States of America that apparently resulted from the swine flu vaccination campaign in that country, as was urged by Professor Tony Basten, Head of Immunology at the University of Sydney and Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, reported in the  Australian  dated 16 November 1976. If so, (a) what information can the Minister provide to the Senate on this matter, and (b) have the results of the Minister's inquiries necessitated alterations to plans to introduce an anti-swine flu vaccination campaign to Australia in 1977. 
asked the Minister for Science the following question, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Government been requested to provide assistance to the survey being carried out by a Queensland Government Fisheries Service Marine Biologist,  Mr Bob  Pearson, on damage being caused to the Great Barrier Reef by Taiwanese fishing vessels, referred to in an article in the Brisbane  Sunday Mail  dated 21 November 1976. If so, (a) what are the details of the request and (b) what assistance is the Australian Government providing. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the Federal Government provide financial assistance to the 1982 Commonwealth Games as was suggested by the Liberal Opposition Leader in the Brisbane City Council and reported in the  Courier-Mail  dated 16 November 1976. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What funding assistance has the Commonwealth Government made available to the Queensland Government for drug education activities in each year since 1970-71. 
) On what projects have these funds been expended. 
Are there any specific qualifications or provisos on the expenditure of funds provided to the Queensland Government for drug education programs. If so, what are the details. 
Has the Australian Government provided any other assistance for drug education programs in Queensland. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the Minister's Media Release dated 19 November 1976, entitled 'Minister Meets with NACC Executive', why is there a need to refer the recommendation of the Hiatt Inquiry into the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee to Cabinet for decision as a matter of urgency. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister 's attention been drawn to an article in the Brisbane  Telegraph  dated 24 November 1976, in which the Queensland Premier is quoted as stating that he was not surprised at allegations being made about Queensland undermining attempts by the Federal Government to negotiate a new sea-bed line between Australia and Papua New Guinea because (a) 'the allegations emanated from  Mr George  Mye', and (b) 'only 3 weeks ago  Mr Mye  and 2 associates were taken down to Canberra'. If so, (c) what are the details of  Mr Mye's  visit to Canberra, and (d) is the Queensland Premier correct in his implied allegation that the Federal Government is actively working against the Queensland Government through  Mr Mye  and others. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What action has the Minister taken to investigate claims by  Mr George  Mye, referred to in an article in the Brisbane Telegraph dated 24 November 1976, that the text of voiced by Torres Strait Islander representatives against the sea-bed line proposals during the Prime Minister's recent visit to the Torres Strait Islands was prepared by a senior Queensland Government representative. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What are the titles of all reports produced to date by the Priorities Review Staff, and which of the reports are available to the public. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice: 
What is the Budget allocation for the Department of Productivity for 1976-77. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Which pensions payable by the Commonwealth Government are subject to tax and which are not subject to tax. 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. The Minister will recall that on 9 November I raised with him the matter of Australian Broadcasting Commission radio news services in Queensland following the introduction of daylight saving in other eastern States. In his reply the Minister stated that he would draw the attention of his colleague in the House of Representatives to my comments about evening radio news services now being at times inappropriate for Queensland people. Further, the Minister said that he would ask his colleague to give my comments his consideration. Subsequent to my question. I was given a copy of a letter sent from the ABC to the Secretary of the Graziers Association of Central and Northern Queensland. The letter indicated that the ABC could not accommodate the people of Queensland because of a lack of funds. I therefore ask: Has the Minister's colleague given any indication of what decision he reached following consideration of my comments? Will the Minister again raise the matter with the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and ask him to ensure that the ABC does receive sufficient funds so that the people of Queensland are not discriminated against? 
I intend to use the first reading stage of this Bill to raise 3 matters. They are minor matters inasmuch as they will not take much time, but they are important matters. I originally intended to raise them during the adjournment debate on Wednesday but because I would have delayed the Senate I arranged to speak on the first reading of this Bill, which I anticipated would have taken place yesterday. By the time I realised that the Bill would not come on yesterday I had decided not to speak in the adjournment debate last night in order not to keep the Senate here late in the evening. I find that it is almost adjournment time now, but I intend to speak on these matters. 
The first matter I wish to raise concerns answers to some questions that I placed on notice. The answers are not satisfactory in the information that they provide and they do not explain why that information could not be provided. On 2 1 September I received an answer to a question which I placed on notice. The question asked: 
1 ) What is (a) the name, (b) designation and (c) salary and entitlements, of each member of the GovernorGeneral 's personal staff. 
Have there been any resignations or departures from the Governor-General's personal staff since 11 November 1 975. If so, for what reasons have the resignations or departures concerned taken place. 
I received an answer which gave details of the name, designation, salary and entitlements of 7 members of the Governor-General's staff. The answer then went on as follows: 
There have been no resignations from the GovernorGeneral's personal staff. 
That is, since 1 1 November 1975. The answer continued: 
Departures have consisted of defence force officers returning to their Services at the completion of their normal periods of duty. 
Personal staff has been interpreted to mean those staff normally selected personally by the Governor-General. Domestic staff and office staff have not been included. 
Because of the latter part of that reply to my question, I placed several further questions on notice in relation to the personal, domestic and office staff of the Governor-General so that I could obtain a complete answer to the original question I asked. On 8 December I received replies to those questions which I placed on notice. But I contend that the replies provided are not at all satisfactory. One of my questions read as follows: 
What is (a) the name, (b) designation, and (c) salary and entitlements of each present and past member of the Governor-General's personal, domestic and office staff who took up duty after 11 November 1975. (2) What position was held by each member referred to in ( 1 ) prior to his or her joining the Governor-General's staff. 
The answer I received was as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Since 1 1 November 1975, five domestic personnel and eight office personnel have joined the GovernorGeneral's staff, including replacements and new staff for the Australian Honours Secretariat. 
In other words, my question was not answered, because my question sought the name, designation and salary and entitlements of each present and past member of the Governor-General's staff. The reply I received did not answer that question. I suggest that if the answer to that question could not be provided for some reasons of security, that should have been stated in the answer to the question. In other words, the Minister should have replied: 'The answer to ( 1) and (2) cannot be provided because of national security'. 
I asked 2 other similar questions based on the original question that I asked. They were questions No. 1115 and No. 1116. Although they are worded slightly differently, they both ask for the name, designation and salary and entitlements of personnel on the Governor-General's staff. In each case that first part of the question was not answered. I intend to follow up this matter. I could follow it up in 2 ways. I do not wish to telegraph my punches, so I will not say the way in which I intend to follow it up. I believe it is an unsatisfactory state of affairs that when members of this national Parliament request more complete answers to questions previously asked those questions are not answered at all or they are answered in an offhand manner. The questions to which I have been referring are questions No. 1115, No. 1116 and No. 1117. I believe that none of those questions was answered in the way that a member of this Parliament should be able to expect them to be answered. 
The second matter I raise is separate from that matter. It is related to price increases which have occurred since devaluation. This matter has been mentioned in the Parliament before, but I wish to put on record another instance of how a firm has increased prices following the announcement of the devaluation but, I would think, before it had to pay increased prices for goods coming from overseas. I shall read a letter dated 1 December 1976 which a constituent who is in the photographic business received from a photographic firm named Agfa-Gevaert Ltd. The letter reads as follows: 
Dear Customer, 
It is with great disappointment that we must announce that due to the recent devaluation of the Australian Dollar, we are forced to increase our prices. 
The price increase will become effective as from Wednesday, 8 December, 1976. 
The price increases have been notified to our respective Branch Offices and Salesmen. We recommend that you check prices with us before ordering, for our official price list will not be in your possession before the New Year. 
All goods ordered up to the close of business on Tuesday, 7th December and which can be immediately delivered will be charged at current prices. 
I believe that this represents a deliberate rip-off of customers on the pretext that devaluation has increased prices. The person who wrote to me suggested that it takes about 3 months to obtain from overseas the type of photographic equipment which this company supplies. Yet on 1 December- very shortly after devaluation- this firm advised that as from 8 December prices would be increased. I am not sure whether anything can be done with regard to this, but I think it is important that the people of Australia know that some firms are taking undue advantage of devaluation to increase prices to their consumers. 
I said that I wished to mention 3 matters. I mention this third matter because I believe it outlines a serious situation which prevails in Queensland. I refer to the Medical Benefits Fund of Queensland. I have been in touch with this Fund to check out certain details. I told the person with whom I spoke that I thought his explanation of the situation which I brought to his attention was not satisfactory and told him that I would probably raise the matter in this chamber. So the Fund is aware of the possibility of my raising this matter here. The matter refers to what I consider to be a double payment for medical insurance. 
I cite 2 cases which have been brought to my attention, not by the persons involved but by a pharmacist who enrolled these people in the Medical Benefits Fund after they had been paying the Medibank levy. These people had paid the Medibank levy from 1 October. As far as I can ascertain, the pharmacist enrolled these 2 people in the Medical Benefits Fund on about 26 October. The pharmacist concluded and his clients concluded that these people's membership with the Medical Benefits Fund, in lieu of paying the Medibank levy, should have prevailed from the date on which they made application to join the Medical Benefits Fund. However, when their membership book was returned they found that their membership had been back dated to 1 
October and therefore subsequent payments had to be made from 1 October. In the case of at least one of these people, monthly payments are payable on the first day of each month thereafter. This has meant that for a period of about 3 or 4 weeks in October these people paid not only the Medibank levy but also the amount charged by the medical benefits organisation. 
I telephoned the Medical Benefits Fund after I received this information from the pharmacist. I believe that there are often two sides to a story and I wanted to hear what the Medical Benefits Fund had to say about this situation. I was told that the Fund presumed that people who enrolled some time in October wanted their medical coverage through the Fund from 1 October. The fund said it would amend any document if it had been started at the right date and, in fact, these two memberships were amended. The Fund also told me that it could leave the membership as it was and the person could obtain a refund of his Medibank levy after he had lodged his tax return next year. That is all right for a person who can afford to have $30 or so lying idle with the Australian Government earning no interest- $30 which he could probably use effectively. In other words, it is not satisfactory to wait to have one 's Medibank levy refunded in circumstances like this. The person I spoke to from the Medical Benefits Fund stated that he could not read people's minds. I do not think this is good enough. We would not expect anybody to read a person's mind with regard to when he wanted to start his membership of a particular fund, but surely there could have been a place on the application form which would have indicated a starting date. If that had happened, the two people to whom I have referred would not have been in this situation. 
I can well understand some of the problems of the medical benefit funds. There was a great deal of confusion prior to 1 October with people wondering whether they should pay the Medibank levy or take out medical coverage with a fund. It would seem to me that there is also fault with the fund in not providing sufficient safeguards so that people would not be placed in this sort of situation. Two cases have been brought to my attention. I would not be surprised if there were more. I would advise people who find themselves in similar situations to contact the medical benefits fund concerned so that they can have their membership altered accordingly and will not have to contribute to the fund and pay the levy at the same time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the Queensland State  President  of the Australian Medical Association,  Dr Donald  Watson, correct in stating as quoted in the  Courier-Mail  dated 2 October 1976, that there is a shortage of private and intermediate beds in Brisbane public hospitals. If so (a) what are the details, (b) are the new Medibank arrangements likely to affect the current situation regarding hospital beds, as was suggested by  Dr Arthur  Crawford, M.L.A., in the same article, and (c) what steps are being taken to remedy any shortage of hospital beds in Brisbane. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1 ) What action has the Minister taken to investigate the possible existence and implications of a World 'Uranium Club' as outlined in the article 'Joh Bjelke-Petersen and the Uranium Sheiks', which appeared in  Nation Review  on 17 September 1976. 
If an investigation has been undertaken by the Minister or his Department: 
a ) what was the result of the investigation; 
b) does the Minister intend taking any further action; 
what information can the Minister provide relating to the involvement of the Queensland Premier, either direct or indirectly, in this matter; and 
what contact has the Minister, or officers of his Department, had with representatives of the United States Federal Grand Jury and the Senate and Congressional Committees of the United States Congress named in the  Nation Review  article. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did the Minister Assisting the Treasurer meet with the Queensland Minister for Local Government and Main Roads,  Mr Hinze,  on 15 October 1976 to discuss the urgent need for additional funds for sewerage works in Queensland. If so, (a) what are the details of the meeting; (b) has the Queensland Government made a formal submission requesting additional funds for sewerage works. If so, what are the details; and (c) what was the outcome of the discussion held on 1 5 October 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to comments by the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement, reported in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail  on 16 July 1976, that the team which produced the report alleging racial discrimination in Queensland had 'only made contact with malcontents'. If so, (a) have  Mr Wharton's  criticisms of the basis and contents of the report any foundation and (b) what action has the Minister taken as a result of (i) the report itself and (ii)  Mr Wharton's  criticisms. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did the Queensland Minister for Police,  Mr Newbery,  in the Queensland Parliament on 8 September 1976, state, in relation to the police raid on Cedar Bay on 19 August 1976, that the attendance of the naval patrol vessel HMAS  Bayonet  during the raid was considered necessary because of the unusually large number of trawlers reported to be in the area, some of which were suspected of drug trafficking. If so, (a) is the reason advanced by the Queensland Police Minister for the presence of HMAS  Bayonet  correct; (b) how many vessels were searched during the tour of the area by HMAS  Bayonet;  (c) were any charges laid as a result of investigations made by the crew of HMAS  Bayonet.  If so, what are the details; and (d) was there evidence of drugs on any of the vessels searched. If so, what are the details; and (e) did any of the vessels flee the patrol boat, necessitating a chase by HMAS  Bayonet  before a search could take place. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the Minister's reply to the Member for Mallee concerning farm machinery costs (House of Representatives'  Hansard,  page 2633): (a) what were the findings of the Minister's 'further investigations', and (b) what action does the Minister intend taking as a result of his investigations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the current staffing establishment in the Department of Productivity? 
How many divisions are included within the establishment of the Department and what is the title of each division, and the function ascribed to each division? 
How many (a) First Division officers, (b) Second Division officers, (c) Third Division officers, (d) Fourth Division officers, are there in each division named in (2)? 
What is the role and aims of the Department of Productivity? 
When was the Department of Productivity created and what are the details? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice: 
What statutory authorities come under the control of the Minister. 
What is the name, occupation, date and term of appointment, and remuneration of each holder of public office in each authority. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Why has law lecturer  Mr John  McMillan been denied access to material relating to the interdepartmental committee deliberations on a proposed Freedom of Information Act, as was stated in the television program  Four Comers,  screened on 13 November 1 976. 
Why has  Mr McMillan  not received replies to two letters written to the Attorney-General's Department relating to his request for information. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of claims, reported in an article by Adrian McGregor entitled 'Why Whitrod Gave Up $130,000', which appeared in the  National Times  dated 22-27 November 1 976, that a report on the Cedar Bay police raid on 29 August 1976 was made available to the then Queensland Police Commissioner,  Mr Whitrod,  the day following the raid. If so, and if the Minister has received a copy of the report in question, (a) when did the Minister receive the report, (b) from whom did the Minister receive the report, and (c) what action did the Minister take on receiving the report. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Does the Department of the Northern Territory actively police the unauthorised entry of Europeans into Aboriginal reserves in the Northern Territory. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the First Report of the British House of Commons Select Committee on Science and Technology on Energy Conservation (Session 1974-7S), in which it is stated that Australia is introducing a two-part tariff specifically designed to reduce the energy demand of office buildings, and that under this scheme, the constraint would penalise heavy consumers, i.e., they would pay one rate up to an established norm and consumption over this would be charged at a premium rate'. If so, (a) does this scheme currently exist, (b) how long has the scheme been in existence, (c) how does the scheme operate, and (d) has the scheme proved to be effective. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is Australia currently a member of the United Nations General Assembly Trusteeship Committee. If so, (a) how did the Australian delegation vote on the recent decision by the Committee to censure the United States of America for maintaining military installations in Guam and to reaffirm the right of the preople of Guam to self-determination and independence, and (b) what were the reasons for the Australian delegation adopting the line it did. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Has any official car been transported by air, either by commercial or Royal Australian Air Force aircraft, to any place since 1 1 November 1975 in order that it be available for use by the Governor-General. If so, what are the details and what was the total cost incurred, and why was the said transportation necessary. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Has the Minister received representations from organisations or individuals living in the Injune area of Queensland seeking the establishment of a television translator station to service that region; if so: 
from whom have representations been received; 
what is the estimated cost of establishing a television translator station to serve the Injune area; 
when is it likely the project will proceed; and 
what is the current extent of television reception in the Injune area. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon nonce: 
1 ) What is the current cost of installation and rental of four-bell and six-bell telephones usually required by persons suffering from some degree of deafness. 
Has these hase been any increase in the cost listed in ( 1 ) since 1970. If so, what are the details. 
Is the cost of installation and rental of four-bell and six-bell telephones greater than that for the standard twobell telephone. If so, (a) what is the difference, (b) why is the additional cost necessary and (c) in view of the fact that four-bell and six-bell telephones are in many cases vital equipment for persons suffering acute hearing loss, will the Minister give consideration to asking Telecom to reduce the cost of installation and rental. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that, in the House of Representatives on 1 8 February 1 976, the Prime Minister, in answer to a question without notice from the Leader of the Opposition, said that all staffs of Ministers had made or were in the process of making declarations of their pecuniary interests to the Minister for Administrative Services. 
Have all current members of ministerial staffs made such a declaration to the Minister, and what form did the declaration take. 
Is the Government in the process of adopting all the recommendations relating to ministerial staff contained in the Report of the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) When and where was subscriber trunk dialling first introduced to Australia. 
When was subscriber trunk dialling extended to areas beyond the initial area of introduction. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many appeals relating to (a) unemployment benefit, (b) sickness benefit, (c) age pension, (d) invalid pension, and (e) supporting mothers' benefit were referred in each State by Social Security Appeals Tribunals to the Department of Social Security before a recommendation was made on those appeals by the Social Security Appeals Tribunals in (i) the March quarter 1976, (ii) the June quarter 1976 and (Hi) the September quarter 1 976. 
In each of these categories what was the number and percentage of these referred appeals which were upheld by the Department of Social Security. 
Were there categories of benefits other than those mentioned in ( 1 ) referred by the Social Security Appeals Tribunals in each State to the Department of Social Security before a recommendation was made on those appeals by the Social Security Appeals Tribunals in the three quarters mentioned in ( 1 ). If so, what were those benefits and what are the details for each benefit as asked for in ( 1 ). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Did the Managing Director of the Australian Telecommunications Commission,  Mr J.  H. Curtis, in a foreword to the report  Telecom 2000,  invite public response to the report by 30 September 1976. 
When does the Commission intend making final decisions and recommendations as a result of detailed study of the report by the Commissioners and within the Telecom organisation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Has the Minister any evidence that will confirm the claim made by the Roman Catholic Bishop of Sale, Victoria, Bishop Fox, reported in the  Courier-Mail  dated 15 November 1976, that 'Australian Broadcasting Commission television was ruining the morals of a lot of people'. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the statement by Professor R. H. Henderson, Director of the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research at the University of Melbourne and formerly  Chairman  of the Inquiry into Poverty in Australia, reported in the  Sydney Morning Herald  dated 22 November 1976, that local authorities instead of State Governments should control grants for social welfare in Australia. If so, has the Minister taken any action to further investigate Professor Henderson's proposal. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Senate Question No. 1231 (Senate Hansard, 4 November 1976, page 1699) relating to Ministerial Press Releases, is it a fact that at one stage early in 1 976, the daily compilation of Ministerial Press Releases was dispatched both to the Parliament House office and the Electorate office of Queensland Members and Senators; if so, (a) what was the period concerned and (b) why was the service discontinued. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Is the Government in agreement with the eleven recommendations made by the Working Party on the Transition from Secondary Education to Employment 
What steps are being taken by the Government to implement the recommendations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Government officially supported the proposal made by the United States Secretary of State,  Dr Henry  Kissinger, at the World Food Congress in Rome, 1974, that a world grain reserve bank be created. If so, what are the details. 
Was Australia represented at the meeting of the International Wheat Council held in London, 29 November 1976; if so, (a) what was the composition of the Australian delegation, and (b) did the Australian delegation actively support the proposal referred to in ( 1 ). 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) With regard to the Minister's answer to Senate question No. 1376, what were the 'other similar types of publications ' which were referred to in the answer. 
2 ) Ho w many copies of those publications were printed. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
With regard to the Minister's answer to Senate question No. 1375, what decision has now been made with relation to reprinting the Report on Public Libraries. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Government of Iran meet any of the expenses incurred by the recent visit to Iran by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. If so, what are the details. 
Have foreign Governments met any of the costs associated with overseas visits by Ministers of the Australian Government since 11 November 1975. If so, what are the details. 
) Has the Australian Government met any of the costs of visits by Ministers of foreign governments to Australia since 1 1 November 1 975. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it correct that, in relation to the United States StateLocal Fiscal Assistance Act of 1972, the United States Congress rejected the proposed concept of the automatic tie-in of general revenue-sharing payments as a fixed percentage of either the annual federal personal income tax base or of annual federal personal income tax revenue. If so, can the Minister provide any details. 
Is it correct that the United States State-Local Fiscal Assistance Act of 1972 makes possible a system of federal collection of State personal income taxes through the machinery of the Federal Internal Revenue Service similar to the proposal that the present Australian Government has made. If so, (a) can the Minister provide any details of the United States system concerned; (b) can the Minister explain why, as at the end of 1974, no State personal income tax in the United States was being collected by the Internal Revenue Service; (c) does the same situation exist today, and, if so, why; and (d) what ramifications does the United States experience have for the present Australian Government's federalism proposals. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Are current Australian Public Service Staff ceilings causing staff reductions in the Fourth Division six times greater than in the Third Division, as has been claimed by the Federal Secretary of the Australian Public Service Association,  Mr V.  B. McMullan, as reported in the  Courier-Mail  of 5 November 1976. If so (a) what are the relevant details of staff reductions; ( b) what effect is this situation having on the operating efficiency of each Department of State; and (c) what action has the Government taken to investigate the suggestion by the Association that the Public Service Board should apply divisional as well as departmental staff ceilings. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Senate Question No. 928 (Senate  Hansard,  page 800), how many persons have been employed under the Regional Employment 
Development scheme in each local government area in Queensland since the inception ofthe scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons in the Federal electoral division of Bowman were registered as unemployed on 1 July in each of the years 1972 to 1976. 
What proportion of the persons was (a) under 21 years of age and (6)21 years of age and over. 
What proportion was (a) male and (b) female. 
How many dependants were claimed by these persons. 
What were the principal work categories stated as being those of the persons unemployed. 
How many of those persons (a) were engaged in apprenticeships, or traineeships when retrenched, and (b) had completed apprenticeships or traineeships. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons in the Federal electoral division of Brisbane were registered as unemployed on 1 July in each of the years 1972 to 1976. 
What proportion ofthe persons was (a) under 21 years of age and ( b) 2 1 years of age and over. 
What proportion was (a) male and (b) female. 
How many dependants were claimed by these persons. 
What were the principal work categories stated as being those of the persons unemployed. 
How many of those persons (a) were engaged in apprenticeships, or traineeships when retrenched and, (b) had completed apprenticeships or traineeships. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons in the Federal electoral division of Petrie were registered as unemployed on 1 July in each of the years 1972 to 1976. 
What proportion of the persons was (a) under 2 1 years of age and ( b) 2 1 years of age and over. 
What proportion was (a) male and (b) female. 
How many dependants were claimed by these persons. 
What were the principal work categories stated as being those of the persons unemployed. 
How many of those persons (a) were engaged in apprenticeships or traineeships when retrenched and, (b) had completed apprenticeships or traineeships. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons in the Federal electoral division of Ryan were registered as unemployed on 1 July in each of the years 1972 to 1976. 
) What proportion of the persons was (a) under 2 1 years of age and ( b ) 2 1 years of age and over. 
What proportion was (a) male and (b) female. 
How many dependants were claimed by these persons. 
What were the principal work categories stated as being those of the persons unemployed. 
How many of these persons (a) were engaged in apprenticeships or traineeships when retrenched and, (b) had completed apprenticeships or traineeships. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister received a copy of the report on the Cedar Bay police raid on 29 August 1976 prepared by Chief Superintendent Becker and Inspector Atkinson for the Queensland Government. If so, (a) when was the report received, and from whom, (b) does the report make mention of Commonwealth involvement in the raid and, if so, what are the details, (c) does the Minister intend taking any further action as a result of detailed study of the Report; if so, what are the details, and (d) will the Minister agree to table the report in Federal Parliament, consequent to permission to do so being granted by the Queensland Government. 
If the Minister has not yet received a copy of the report in question, will he request the Queensland Government to provide him with a copy. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Premier of Queensland raised objections to certain aspects of the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill 1976 and the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill 1976, as was stated by the Queensland Treasurer in answer to a Question Upon Notice in the Queensland Parliament on 28 October 1976; if so (a) what are the objections, (b) in what form were they presented to the Prime Minister by the Premier, and (c) what further action does the Prime Minister intend taking. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Which undertakings contained in the the 'Liberal Policy Statement' published in the  Australian  dated 28 November 1975 have not been implemented to date, and why has each of them not been implemented. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the Prime Minister, in his policy speech for the 1975 Federal election, undertake on behalf of his Government to form a Productivity Council in Australia. If so, what effect will the creation of the Department of Productivity have on this undertaking. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Premier of Queensland discussed the possibility of a High Court challenge to the ban on sand mining on Fraser Island with the Prime Minister or any of his Ministers. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Queensland Government made any formal submission seeking Federal Government assistance for projects in the Maryborough region to help alleviate unemployment directly resulting from the decision to ban sand mining on Fraser Island. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With relation to Senate question No. 1 308 about the International Labour Organisation's Convention on Indigenous and Tribal Populations, is the Prime Minister willing to release the full text of his advice to the Queensland Government, referred to in the Queensland Premier's reply to a question in the Queensland Parliament on 20 October 1976. If so, what is the text. If not, would the Prime Minister inform the Senate why the text cannot be released. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What is the full text of the letter written by the Queensland Premier to the Prime Minister, referred to in an article in the  Courier-Mail dated  4 December 1976, in which the Queensland Government apparently submits a request for a non-repayable grant of $77,800,000 over the next 10 years to help offset the effects of the shutdown of the sandmining operations on Fraser Island. 
When does the Prime Minister expect to be able to reply to the Premier's submission. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Prime Minister's reply to Senate Question No. 1270 on 6 December 1976, concerning Queensland Government submissions for assistance, will the Prime Minister seek the Queensland Premier's agreement to publicly release details of the submissions concerned, similar to the Premier's recent release of the text of the letter he wrote to the Prime Minister seeking a non-repayable grant of $77m relating to the suspension of sandmining on Fraser Island. 
Has the Queensland Government received replies to any of the submissions concerned. If so, what are the details. If not, when can replies be expected to each of the submissions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice: 
Is it usual practice within the Australian Public Service that classification and remuneration for public servants occupying positions based in Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra to be in excess of those for public servants occupying positions with similar duties and responsibilities in other capital cities. If so, with relation to the Housing Allowance Voucher Experiment, (a) does the Government s decision to allocate the new positions of Site Office Director to a Class 8 public servant in Sydney and Melbourne and in Hobart denote a change in that policy, and (b) will public servants in future not be disadvantaged in classification or remuneration because their position happens to be based outside of Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will casual staff working as polling booth clerks in Federal elections in future have tax deducted from their earnings. If so: 
what are the details; 
when was the decision taken, and by whom; and 
why was the decision taken. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Minister received a submission from the Air Pilots Guild of Australia requesting that, as a safety measure, the mandatory period between drinking alcohol and flying, for pilots, be increased from 8 hours to 1 2 hours. If so, 
when was the submission received, 
what was the Minister's decision on the request, 
when was the decision taken, and 
for what reasons was the decision taken. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Prime Minister's Department carried out any research into the effects of the revenue sharing program on local government. If so, what are the details. 
Has the Prime Minister's Department investigated the feasibility of developing research, along the lines of the Southern Governmental Monitoring Project carried out by the Southern Regional Council in Atlanta, Georgia, United States of America, in 1 973. If so, ( a) what are the details, and (b) do the results of the United States research have any application to Australia. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Why does the Federal Government not give greater recognition to the overall income-earning capacity of States such as Queensland and Western Australia when determining the share of personal income tax distribution to each State, as was suggested by the former Queensland Treasurer,  Sir Gordon  Chalk, in an article in the  Courier-Mail,  dated 23 November 1976. 
) If greater recognition were given to this fact, would the Federal Government have avoided the need for the recent amendments to the basis of income tax sharing between the Commonwealth and the States, as was also suggested by  Sir Gordon  Chalk. 
Does the Treasurer agree with  Sir Gordon  Chalk that the current system, whereby if a State does not receive sufficient funds from the Commonwealth for its essential needs, the State concerned will need to apply a surcharge to personal income tax payments, 'can only lead to the taxation chaos which existed between States before uniform Australian personal taxation '. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Government now abandoned the former Labor Government's regionalisation program. If so, 
what steps does the Government plan to take to reduce these disparities; 
if these programs have not been abandoned, will the Minister outline in detail what steps the Government is taking in this area; and 
if the Minister considers that under the new federalism policy these programs are a matter for State Governments, will he outline what initiating and coordinating role he sees for the national Government in such programs. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the total funding granted to Queensland under the Australian Assistance Plan since the inception of that scheme. 
What is the total funding granted to each Regional Council for Social Development in Queensland under the Australian Assistance Plan since the inception of that scheme. 
What is the current postal address of each Regional Council for Social Development in Queensland. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Prime Minister recently criticise local authorities for increasing rates after they had allegedly received such a ' good deal from the Grants Commission. 
Under the revenue sharing program, should funds received by local authorities be used to increase services or to reduce taxes. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Queensland Government sought advice or assistance from the Australian Government with relation to the Queensland Government's current investigation, referred to in an article by the Queensland Premier which appeared in the Warwick  Daily News  dated 1 7 November 1 976, into the proposed establishment of a State Trading Bank in Queensland. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to the article entitled 'Howzat Australian Rock Scores a World Hit' in the  Bulletin  dated 4 December 1976, which details the current success being experienced overseas by several Australian pop groups, including the Sydney band Sherbet. If so, can the Prime Minister advise what assistance the Federal Government currently provides to Australian entertainers seeking to enter the international market. 
Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to the article entitled 'Uncle Sam Lends Musicians a Hand' in  Rolling Stone  magazine dated 2 December 1976, which gives details of the work of the United States Advisory Panel on Folk Music and Jazz, a body that evaluates the eligibility of United States musicians who have applied for State Department assistance while travelling overseas. If so, will the Prime Minister consider establishing a service for Australian entertainers travelling overseas similar to that offered by the United States Government, which apparently includes advice and assistance through United States Embassies and Consulates abroad, and direct financial assistance. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has research into revenue sharing in the United States of America shown that Federal money has been used by local authorities to reduce taxes; it has reduced the pressure on local governments to explain what they have been doing; and has also dampened citizen interest in local government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the article entided 'Pre-paid tourist; billed for 20 per cent more' which appeared in the  Australian  dated 6 December 1976, in which it is reported that Travel agents said that although they expected payments well in advance for package tours, the money was not immediately forwarded overseas to the people providing accommodation and excursions. If so, can (a) travel agents retain advance payments from clients in trust accounts or in some other similar form, and (b) are travel agents entitled to retain any interest earned on monies retained in the period between the time of receipt from the client to the time of dispatch overseas to those providing accommodation, excursion trips and other incidentals. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Can the Minister give details of all financial aid, military aid and any other assistance provided either multilaterally or bilaterally by Australia to Sn Lanka since 1970. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
With reference to the Minister's answer to Senate Question No. 1 106, what was the name of the senior Queensland police officer who requested the presence of HMAS  Bayonet  in the Cedar Bay area on 28-29 August 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Why did the Queensland Government not present a submission to the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) When and how did the Minister first learn of the existence of the report prepared by Inspector Bob Gray of the Queensland Police Force and forwarded to the former Queensland Police Commissioner on the day following the raid at Cedar Bay. 
Has the Minister, officers of his Department, or the Minister's personal staff seen a copy of the report; if so, (a) who has seen a copy of the report, (b) what action has been taken as a result of the report and (c) does the report make mention of the actions of Federal officers involved in the Cedar Bay raid; if so, what are the details. 
When and how did the Minister first learn that the Queensland Minister for Police had destroyed copies of the report. 
Have Ministers or officers of the Queensland Government in any way sought to influence the Minister in answering queries about the Cedar Bay raid or about events related since the raid; if so, what are the details. 
Did Chief Superintendent Becker and Inspector Atkinson, who were delegated by former Queensland Police Commissioner, Ray Whitrod, to inquire into aspects of the 
Cedar Bay raid, at any stage during their inquiries interview, or seek to interview, officers of the Minister's Department or of statutory bodies under the Minister's jurisdiction; if so, what are the details. 
Does the Minister currently have access to (a) the Gray Report or (b) the Becker Report; if so, what action is the Minister taking as a result of study of the report/reports in question. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) When and how did the Minister first learn of the existence of the report prepared by Inspector Bob Gray of the Queensland Police Force and forwarded to the former Queensland Police Commissioner on the day following the raid. 
Has the Minister, officers of his Department, or the Minister's personal staff seen a copy of the report; if so (a) who has seen a copy of the report, (b) what action has been taken as a result of the report and (c) does the report make mention of the actions of Federal officers involved in the Cedar Bay raid; if so, what are the details. 
When and how did the Minister first learn that the Queensland Minister for Police had destroyed copies of the report. 
Have Ministers or officers of the Queensland Government in any way sought to influence the Minister in answering queries about the Cedar Bay raid or about events related since the raid; if so, what are the details. 
Did Chief Superintendent Becker and Inspector Atkinson, who were delegated by former Queensland Police Commissioner Ray Whitrod, to inquire into aspects of the Cedar Bay raid, at any stage during their inquiries interview, or seek to interview, officers of the Minister's Department or of statutory bodies under the Minister's jurisdiction; if so, what are the details. 
Does the Minister currently have access to (a) the Gray Report or (b) the Becker Report; if so, what action is the Minister taking as a result of study of the report/reports in question. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
When and how did the Minister first learn of the existence of the report prepared by Inspector Bob Gray of the Queensland Police Force and forwarded to the former Queensland Police Commissioner on the day following the raid. 
Has the Minister, officers of his Department, or the Minister's personal staff seen a copy of the report; if so (a) who has seen a copy of the report, (b) what action has been taken as a result of the report and (c) does the report make mention of the actions of Federal officers involved in the Cedar Bay raid; if so, what are the details. 
When and how did the Minister first learn that the Queensland Minister for Police had destroyed copies of the report 
Have Ministers or officers of the Queensland Government in any way sought to influence the Minister in answering queries about the Cedar Bay raid or about events related since the raid; if so, what are the details. 
Did Chief Superintendent Becker and Inspector Atkinson, who were delegated by former Queensland Police Commissioner, Ray Whitrod, to inquire into aspects of the Cedar Bay raid, at any stage during their inquiries interview, or seek to interview, officers of the Minister's Department or of statutory bodies under the Minister's jurisdiction, if so, what are the details. 
Does the Minister currently have access to (a) the Gray Report or (b) the Becker Report; if so, what action is the Minister taking as a result of study of the report/reports in question. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article by Adrian McGregor entitled 'Why Whitrod Gave Up $130,000', which appeared in the  National Times  dated 22-27 November 1 976, that a report on the Cedar Bay police raid on 29 August 1976 was made available to the then Queensland Police Commissioner,  Mr Whitrod,  the day following the raid; if so, and if the Minister has received a copy of the report (a) when did the Minister receive the report, (b) from whom did the Minister receive the report and (c) what action did the Minister take on receiving the report 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to claims made by the Managing Director of Darling Downs Co-operative Bacon Association,  Mr R.  G. Krimmer, in the Brisbane  Courier Mail  of 18 September 1976 that his Company had, following newspaper advertisements and with assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service, received applications from 60 juniors and 70 seniors for 100 senior and 100 junior positions for process workers for a period of three weeks; if so, (a) were these 200 positions actually advertised and available at the Darling Downs Co-operative Bacon Association; (b) when were the vacancies advertised or available; (c) how many applications were referred to the Company by the Commonwealth Employment Service; (d) how many applicants for employment were recommended by the Commonwealth Employment Service; (e) how many persons were unemployed in the Toowoomba region during the period concerned; (f) how many vacancies were there in the Toowoomba region during the period concerned; and (g) what evidence can the Commonwealth Employment Service or the Minister's Department, provide to support  Mr 
Krimmer 's claim that only one third of the 1 30 applicants for the positions were suitable for employment, and that the test seemed too grubby for food process work, or not willing to work'. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to comments by the Director of the Queensland Harbour Boards Association,  Mr Bert  Field, referred to in an article in the  Courier Mail  dated 26 November 1976, that the Queensland Government's decision to grant the Australian National Line only limited intrastate trading rights is farcical, and that the Association will exert further pressure to have the ANL granted unrestricted trading rights; if so, 
what are the details of the Queensland Government's decision; 
b ) what trading rights were being sought by the ANL; 
for what reason has the Queensland Government refused to agree to unrestricted trading rights; 
what effect will the Queensland Government's decision have on the operation of ANL in Queensland and throughout Australia; 
, to what extent would industry and consumers in Queensland benefit if further intrastate trading is allowed in Queensland for the ANL; and (0 what action is the Australian Government taking to persuade the Queensland Government to agree to unrestricted trading rights for ANL. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of claims, reported in an article by Adrian McGregor entitled 'Why Whitrod Gave Up $130,000', which appeared in the  National Times  dated 22-27 November 1976, that a report on the Cedar Bay police raid on 29 August 1976 was made available to the then Queensland Police Commissioner,  Mr Whitrod,  the day following the raid; if so, and if the Minister has received a copy of the report in question (a) when did the Minister receive the report, (b) from whom did the Minister receive the report, and (c) what action did the Minister take on receiving the report. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What is the full text of the request to all Australian airlines from the Department of Transport, relating to restriction on the amount of baggage and personal possessions to be carried in aircraft cabins by passengers or domestic aircraft, referred to in the article by Jack Percival entitled 'Stricter Check on Air Luggage' which appeared in the  Sun-Herald  dated 2 1 November 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many agencies of the Commonwealth Employment Service were there in each State and Territory between 30 June 1970 to 1976. 
What were the total fees paid to agencies for each of those years. 
Where are agencies presently located in each State and Territory. 
What fees are currently payable to each. 
How are fees for agencies of the Commonwealth Employment Service determined. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister received a copy of the report on the Cedar Bay police raid on 29 August 1976, prepared by Chief Superintendent Becker and Inspector Atkinson for the Queensland Government; if so, (a) when was the Report received, and from whom, (b) does the Report make mention of Commonwealth involvement in the raid and, if so, what are the details, (c) does the Minister intend taking any further action as a result of detailed study of the Report; if so, what are the details, and (d) will the Minister agree to table the report in Federal Parliament, consequent to permission to do so being granted by the Queensland Government. 
If the Minister has not yet received a copy of the Report in question, will he request the Queensland Government to provide him with a copy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What steps have been taken to investigate the malfunctioning of the nose wheel of a Fokker Friendship aircraft at Bundaberg on 1 1 November 1 976. 
Does the Minister intend taking any further action as a result of the investigation. 
Has the Minister sought advice on the call, referred in the article in the  Courier Mail  dated 16 November 1976, for all Fokker Friendships to be grounded as a result of the Bundaberg mishap; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many applications have been received to date for funding assistance under the Community Youth Support Scheme. 
What are the details of each grant approved to date under the Community Youth Support Scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
How many submissions seeking financial assistance for the One People of Australia League have been made to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs since December 1972, and, briefly, what are the details of each submission. 
Has the League received any financial assistance from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs since December 1972 (a) if so, what are the details and (b) if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
What action has the Minister taken to investigate claims, contained in a survey compiled by the North-Western Regional Council for Social Development and referred to in an article in the Melbourne  Age  dated 20 November, 1976, that the Commonwealth Employment Service discriminates against junior job seekers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister advised the Secretary to Department of Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr B.  G. Dexter, that he is shortly to be appointed to a diplomatic post; if so, (a) what are the reasons for  Mr Dexter  's proposed removal from the position of Secretary to the Depanment and, (b) has the Minister approached  Mr David  Hay to succeed  Mr Dexter  as Secretary. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With relation to the Minister's answer to Question No. 1273, will the Minister advise whether 'formal advice of the Queensland Government's further consideration' has now been conveyed to the Minister; if so, what is that formal advice; if not, has any formal advice been received and if so, what is that advice. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
When was the Queensland Government first informed of the Federal Government's decision relating to the recommendations of the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Are there any plans to upgrade Proserpine Airport so that it may be used by jet aircraft; if so, what are the details, including the estimated expenditure and the amount that various bodies would be required to contribute. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the full text of the memorandum to all Federal Departments from the Treasurer entitled 'Effects of Devaluation on 1976-77 Budget', referred to in the article by Warwick Bracken in the  Canberra Times  dated 7 December 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1 ) When and how did the Minister first learn of the existence of the report prepared by Inspector Bob Gray of the Queensland Police Force and forwarded to former Queensland Police Commissioner on the day following the raid at Cedar Bay. 
Has the Minister, officers of his Department, or the Minister's personal staff seen a copy of the report; if so (a) who has seen a copy of the report, (b) what action has been taken as a result of the report and (c) does the report make mention of the actions of Federal officers involved in the Cedar Bay raid; if so, what are the details. 
When and how did the Minister first learn that the Queensland Minister for Police had destroyed copies of the report. 
Have the Ministers or officers of the Queensland Government in any way sought to influence the Minister in answering queries about the Cedar Bay raid or about events related since the raid; if so what are the details. 
Did Chief Superintendent Becker and Inspector Atkinson who were delegated by former Queensland Police Commissioner, Ray Whitrod, to inquire into aspects of the Cedar Bay raid, at any stage during their inquiries interview, or seek to interview, officers of the Minister's Department or of statutory bodies under the Minister's jurisdiction; if so, what are the details. 
Does the Minister currently have access to (a) the Gray Report or (b) the Becker Report; if so, what action is the Minister taking as a result of study of the report/reports in question. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
With reference to the Minister's reply to Senate Question No. 1 ISO, has the Minister, in a capacity other than Deputy Prime Minister, or has any of the Minister's personal staff or officers of his Department, been in contact with the Queensland Premier, the Queensland Treasurer, the former or current Queensland Minister for Police, or the former or current Queensland Police Commissioner, concerning the raid by Commonwealth and State Officers at Cedar Bay on any occasion since the raid took place on 29 August 1976; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1) In view of the directors' report of Murphyores Holdings Limited, what is the nature of the dispute which has arisen over the contract between D.M. Minerals and A.M.M.C. over the sales of Fraser Island mineral sand. 
What arbitration has been arranged to settle the dispute and what is the date and venue for the arbitration referred to in Murphyores annual report. 
What was the date of the last shipment of mineral sands from D.M. Minerals. 
What has been the production of D.M. Minerals from Fraser Island since the last shipment of both rutile and zircon. 
What is the difference between D.M. Minerals export contract price and the current prevailing market price for both rutile and zircon. 
When the Commonwealth Government allowed the export of mineral sands won from the major Fraser Island beach, why did D.M. Minerals and Queensland Titanium Mines Pty Ltd, which have leases on the beach, fail to avail themselves of this offer. 
What does the (a) Commonwealth Government and (b) the Queensland Government, propose to do about the mining leases on Fraser Island once labour conditions cease to be fulfilled. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
Did Queensland Titanium Mines Pry Ltd advise its workforce in September that its main dredge would not continue its Fraser Island operations any longer than the end of November because it was uneconomical to extend its operations further, if so, what arrangements did the (a) Queensland Government and (b) Commonwealth Government have in hand for alternative employment for the 120 men who were about to be retrenched prior to the Commonwealth Government's adoption of the Fraser Island Inquiry report. 
Did the Dillingham Mining Company, even before the recommendations of the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry were published, advise some key employees from the Fraser Island sandmining operations that the company would be closing down its Fraser Island operations because of marketing, liquidity and contractual difficulties being experienced by the company, as well as the low grades of mineral being exploited. 
Did the Dillingham Mining Company, prior to the reporting of the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry, have plans well advanced to transfer its plant and equipment presently engaged in D.M. Minerals Fraser Island operations to work placer gold deposits in the Palmer River area of Cape York Peninsula. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to a report in the  Courier Mail  of 9 February in which it is stated that the Federal member for Griffith,  Mr Donald  Cameron, claims that a group of Aborigines in Brisbane has formed a cooperative to steal pension and other social security cheques from letter boxes? Can the Minister advise whether there is any substance in  Mr Cameron's  claim? If the Minister is unable to advise at this stage, will she agree to have the allegations investigated and subsequently advise the Senate of the outcome of the investigation? 

 - Mr President, earlier today when we were debating the urgency motion and before I was due to speak, I showed you a copy of a speech and asked you whether it would be satisfactory to have that speech incorporated in  Hansard.  I did this out of courtesy because last year there was some confusion about whether certain documents should be incorporated in  Hansard  because of their length. I received a message from you that it would be satisfactory to incorporate this speech in  Hansard,  provided that the necessary leave was granted. When speaking to the urgency motion during the course of the afternoon, I said: 
I have had consultations with the  President  earlier about this document and he said he would be prepared to let it be incorporated in  Hansard.  I therefore seek leave to have  Mr Knox  's speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
The Acting  Deputy President  at that stage asked whether leave was granted.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack said: 
No. I do not see why it should be incorporated in  Hansard  and I resist the application. 
Of course the Acting Deputy President at that stage quite rightly said: 'Leave is not granted'. I went on to say that because leave was not granted I would take the opportunity during the adjournment debate tonight to read the speech so that it would be incorporated in  Hansard.  I thus quote this document. It reads: 
I support the motion of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt),  namely, that the continuing decline in the Australian economy and the failure of the Government to take remedial action is a matter of urgency. In some respects I do not support it with any glee because the decline in the Australian economy is affecting every person in Australia. In considering this matter I think it is important to go back a little way and to look at the 1975 policy speech of the then caretaker Prime Minister. In  Mr Fraser  's policy speech in November 1975 he set out what he would do for the Australian people. In his opening remarks  Mr Fraser  said: 
Let us all as Australians determine to restore prosperity, defeat inflation and provide jobs for all. 
That was stirring rhetoric, as was most of the remainder of the speech. But all Australians are aware that the promises made then have not been backed up by performance. In addition to its dismal failure to honour its promises of prosperity, decreased inflation and jobs for all, the Fraser Government is intent at the moment on lowering the real wages of Australian workers. So much for prosperity. 
In looking back at that time, I am reminded of the purported conversation between 2 women who were also looking back. One said to the other 'This  Mr Fraser  really knows what he is saying. I can remember speaking to him in the election campaign in 1975 and he said to me, "If you vote for Whitlam you will end up with higher unemployment, higher interest rates and higher inflation." I voted for  Mr Whitlam',  the lady said, 'Whitlam did not win but  Mr Fraser  was right. We have higher unemployment, higher interest rates and higher inflation'. There are some people whom I could name who are on the same political side as the present Government and who think the same way about what the Fraser Government has done. 
Before I refer to that, however, I would like to mention my own State. The things which are happening in Queensland, the State I represent, present a very dismal picture for the people there. The January employment figures for Queensland released by the Commonwealth Employment Service show that a record level of 6.4 per cent of the work force in that State is unemployed. That is well above the Australian average, which is 5.8 per cent, and I believe that that in itself is an intolerable level of unemployment. Virtually every city and town in Queensland saw a marked increase last month in the number of people out of work. That does not make for a happy economic situation. The unemployment figure for the Brisbane employment district for the month of January showed a rise of 12 per cent over the figure for December 1976. There were 21 843 people registered as unemployed in the Brisbane employment district last month, compared with 19 405 people in the previous month. As I said, there was a 12 per cent increase from one month to the next. 
During the parliamentary recess I became aware that many unemployed school leavers were deliberately confused about whether they could register for employment or for unemployment benefits. Many young people came to me and said that they did not know what to do. Some people said that they had been to an agency of the Commonwealth Employment Service and had not been allowed to register. Because that occurred, it is likely that many unemployed school leavers did not register as unemployed during January. That being so, what are the true figures? I am not sure, but I will quote the actual Commonwealth Employment Service figures for Queensland for last month. It should be remembered, too, that the current Government no longer publishes seasonally adjusted figures. That being the case, it is not really possible to look at the figures and compare them with figures for other times of the year. I realise that there are problems in seasonally adjusting figures, but any statistician worth his salt would provide adjustment criteria so that one could look at figures for one month and compare them with the figures for the previous month or for 6 months ago to see what they represent in relative terms. I believe that it is time this Government asked the Statistician to work out a way to provide adequate seasonal adjustments. 
I referred before to the increase in the unemployment figures for Queensland from December to January. Let me now deal with some of the employment districts and the percentage increases which occurred from December to January. On the Gold Coast there was an increase of 10 per cent, in Townsville 23 per cent, in Mackay 15 per cent, in Nambour 17 per cent, in Bundaberg 12 per cent, and in Toowoomba, which is one of our largest cities, the increase was 10 per cent. Mount Isa is regarded as a place of fairly low unemployment and there is a cogent reason for this. If one becomes unemployed in Mount Isa one does not stay there but goes to another city to seek employment. However, Mount Isa in January had a 7 per cent increase in the number of unemployed over the figure for December of the previous year. Let me mention some of the smaller areas in Queensland. They are smaller but there are still people there and everyone who is unemployed finds the position difficult. In Gympie there was a 20 per cent increase, in Atherton 38 per cent, in Innisfail 20 per cent, in Ingham 23 per cent and in Ayr 27 per cent. These are not the only places in Queensland where there was an increase but I have mentioned these employment districts simply to give an illustration of what the situation is like in the State which I represent. 
I would like to quote from remarks made by 2 people. One is never a Labor supporter and the other is not necessarily a Labor supporter. I noticed in a private communication the other day that  Mr Kevin  Cairns, the Liberal member for Lilley in the House of Representatives, stated that  Mr W.  J. Herbert who writes as an economist in the  Sunday Mail  is a friend of his.  Mr Herbert  pulled no punches in the  Sunday Mail  last Sunday. Talking about inflation he said: 
Australians will soon get two shocks on inflation in close succession. The December quarter price increase will be announced in the next fortnight - 
We were told today that it will be announced next Tuesday at noon. 
-Indeed. It is after the Western Australian State election.  Mr Herbert  continues: 
. and it is likely to be at least a S per cent rise in the Consumer Price Index. 
The CPI figure for the March quarter will be announced about mid-April. This is also likely to show a price increase of about 3 per cent. So in 2 months Australians will be told of a 10 per cent rise in prices. They will be shocked. Inflation will have accelerated to a 20 per cent annual rate for the 6 months from October to March. 

 Mr Fraser 's stocks are going to slump- unemployment and inflation getting worse, not better. 

 Mr Herbert goes on to talk about cuts in Government spending and how in the current economic situation that is ludicrous, but I will not continue with  Mr Herbert's  remarks. I mention instead some remarks by a prominent member of the 
Liberal Party who similarly pulls no punches when talking about this Government and its lack of planning. On 3 February the Deputy Premier of Queensland, Bill Knox, made a speech at a Liberal Party dinner in Brisbane and among other things he had this to say when talking about inflation: 
I do not think that any of us would doubt that the Federal Government has made genuine attempts to reduce the rate of inflation in Australia. Up to the present time it has met with some success, but much of that success is going to be whittled away when the consumer price index figures for the last quarter are released. To a very great extent, the Commonwealth has itself to blame for that- it won't be able to blame the unions, the States, or industry. 
Later he said: 
I believe the passage of time will demonstrate that the restructuring of Medibank was poorly timed, and that the imposition of a levy or tax- because that is really what it is- was inappropriate given the prevailing economic conditions. 
With regard to unemployment  Mr Knox,  a Liberal, said: 
There can be no doubt that it has been singularly unsuccessful in its attempts to reduce unemployment, 
Speaking of restoration of prosperity, something about which I spoke in my opening remarks,  Mr Knox  said, referring to the Government: 
But for my part, I believe that this is the area of greatest concern to us today because every indication which I have received from the leaders of the private sector, and from those who depend upon the private sector for their jobs as well, points to increasing disappointment at the Federal Government 's performance in this area. 
There are other aspects of  Mr Knox's  speech which I think are quite pertinent but let me turn to something which he said at the end of his speech: 
But where the action is really needed is in national economic management . . . where positive leadership will boost confidence and help restore growth and prosperity. 
For the sake of the very system which we all support, I hope it will not be long in forthcoming. 
The whole tenor of  Mr Knox's  speech is an attack on this Government for its economic mismanagement. One has to concede that there will be a State election in Queensland this year and it is obvious that  Mr Knox  is trying to dissociate himself from the mismanagement of this Government.  Mr Knox  himself should be doing something positive but, not being able to, he has come out and attacked this Government. This document is of such importance that it should be available to everybody. I have had consultations with the  President  earlier about this document and he said he would be prepared to let it be incorporated in  Hansard.  I therefore seek leave to have  Mr Knox's  speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Young)-Is  leave granted. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTLeave is not granted. 
-That being the case, it is obvious that the Government has something to hide. It is frightened of what the electors will do when they have the opportunity to cast a vote to show what they think of what this Government has done. I accept the fact that I am not able to incorporate the document in  Hansard  but I give notice that this evening in the adjournment debate I shall read it into  Hansard.  Every economic indicator shows that in Queensland, the State I represent, there is a worsening situation. It is time that not only this Government but also the Queensland Government took those necessary steps to ensure that the economic situation in that State and throughout the whole of Australia becomes much better. It is a matter of urgency that the Australian economy is continuing to decline and that the Government is failing to take the proper remedial action. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
What action did the Minister take to investigate alternative employment opportunities for persons currently engaged in sand mining on Fraser Island, prior to the Cabinet reaching its decision on the future of sand mining on Fraser Island. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Has the Federal Government refused to present a submission to the Moreton Island Committee of Inquiry currently being conducted by the Queensland Government. If so, (a) why has this decision been taken; and (b) in view of the contentious nature of the sandmining issue in Queensland at the present time, and of the fact that the Federal Government may be called on at a later date to refuse to issue export licences for minerals obtained from Moreton Island, will the Government reconsider its decision. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is the use of the word 'dole ', when referring to unemployment benefits, regarded as an acceptable term by officers of the Department of Social Security. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Has her attention been drawn to an article in the Sydney  SunHerald  dated 20 February 1977 claiming that federal public servants in some departments, including the Department of Social Security, believe that telephone lines put through departmental switch boards are being tapped? Can the Minister assure the Senate that this is not occurring in her Department? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Did the 1976-77 estimates for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development show an estimated average employment for 1976-77 of 826, of which 252 would be in the Management Division. If so, (a) why are 30.5 per cent of the total staff employed in the Management Division of the Department, ( b ) why is it that while all staffing levels in other Divisions have fallen, the staff of Management Division has increased from 28 per cent of the total staff in 1975-76 to 30.5 per cent, and (c) what role does the Management Division play in the determination of staff numbers for the other Divisions of the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Does the Australian Heritage Commission Act 'in no way diminish the sole authority of the Queensland Government to direct and control the management of State-owned land', as was claimed by the Queensland Premier in reply to a question relating to the logging industry on Fraser Island in the Queensland Parliament on 1 8 November 1 976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Has the Queensland Government sought assistance from the Australian Government on the proposed extension of the Fraser Island National Park, details of which were given in an article in the Brisbane  Sunday Mail  dated 28 November 1976. If so, what assistance has been sought. 
Can the Queensland Government extend the Fraser Island National Park without reference to the Australian Government. 
Has the Federal Government provided any financial assistance to the Fraser Island National Park to date. If so, what are the details. 
Does the Federal Government currently have any control over the use and maintenance of the Fraser Island National Park. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of the Fitzroy Region Service Needs Assessment Study that was carried out in Queensland for the Fitzroy Co-ordination Council with funds from the Area Improvement Program. 
Is the Minister also aware that the study illustrates the severe deficiencies in the local Public Service structure currently existing in the Fitzroy region of Queensland, and provides a basis for the planning of programs to overcome these problems. 
If the answers to ( 1 ) and (2) are in the affirmative, can the Minister give an undertaking that- 
further funds will be made available so that similar studies can be undertaken progressively in all other regions of Australia; and 
the Commonwealth Government will co-operate with State governments and local authorities through these studies, through the development of the urban and regional budget, and through the Australian municipal information system, to plan for the gradual elimination of the deficiencies listed in (2). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the statement by the  Chairman  of the Moreton Island Land Use Inquiry referred to in the  Courier Mail  dated 3 December 1976, that only in very exceptional circumstances would the Inquiry accept submissions after 3 December 1976. If so, will the Federal Government be making an application seeking approval to present a submission to the Inquiry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment  Housing  and Community Development, upon notice: 
Could the Moreton Island Land Use Inquiry in Queensland have been held under the auspices of the Environmental Protection Act, to avoid the need for two separate inquiries, one to satisfy the State Government, and one to satisfy the Federal Government. If so, why was this procedure not adopted. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Where maintenance has been awarded by a Court to a supporting mother, is that maintenance taken into account to determine the level of supporting mother's benefit if the Court order is not obeyed and the maintenance is not paid. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
With respect of part (2) of the Minister's reply to Senate Question No. 1356  (Hansard,  page 2871, 8 December 1976) are funds accrued from rental of Aboriginal housing, the capital cost of which is borne by the Commonwealth Government, repaid to the Commonwealth, or are they retained by the Queensland Government. 
-I present the following petition from 409 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six months from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure; 
That the Commonwealth Government's long-term policy should be to pro vide 50 per cent of all funding for Australia 's roads. 
That at a minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $5, 903m of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1980-81, of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. The Minister will recall that on 16 February I asked her about claims made by the Federal member for Griffith,  Mr Donald  Cameron, that a group of Aborigines in Brisbane had formed a co-operative to steal pensioner and other social security cheques from letter boxes. In answering the question the Minister said, amongst other things, that she would ask  Mr Donald  Cameron whether he had any more specific information which would enable the necessary investigations to be undertaken. Will the Minister advise whether she has yet asked  Mr Donald  Cameron for more specific information? If she has, what was his reply? On the other hand, if the Minister has not yet contacted  Mr Donald  Cameron, when does she intend to do so? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) How often is the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development's publication  Environs  to be published. 
What is the estimated cost of publication of each issue. 
How many persons are involved in the production of the magazine. 
To whom is the publication distributed. 
) What is the objective of the magazine. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Have cuts in Federal Government funds available to the Australian Broadcasting Commission necessitated the cancellation of a planned special weekly program of captioned television news for the deaf, as was claimed in the article entitled 'Their Eyes are their Ears' in the  Australian Women's Weekly  dated 1 December 1976. If so, (a) what are the details, and (b) can the Minister take action to ensure that the program proceeds as originally planned. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's reply to a question without notice in the House of Representatives on 18 February 1976 (  Hansard,  page 35), have all Ministers now made a declaration of their pecuniary interests to the Prime Minister. If so: 
what form did the declarations take, and 
will the declarations be made public. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Minister for Productivity provided details of his pecuniary interests to the Prime Minister. If so, will the Prime Minister advise the Senate of the details provided. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Last year I asked the following question upon notice: 
Does the Department of Aboriginal Affairs reimburse ambulance centres for the cost of transporting Aboriginal patients . . . 
In June of last year I received the answer 'Yes'. Was I in fact misinformed by that answer and at that time had the scheme been discontinued? If it had been discontinued, why was I misinformed? What are the complete details in relation to the present state of the Ambulance Bad Debts Reimbursement Scheme? 
-A great deal has been said about the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill and I expect that a great deal more will be said. Some remarks expressed concern about whether people, organisations or parties have been consistent or, alternatively, inconsistent in their approach to this question. I make it clear that ever since I have been considering this type of legislation to amend the Constitution I have been consistent in my approach. I first considered this question well before 1974 when legislation similar to that now before us was first introduced. I formed a view favourable to simultaneous elections when the matter was being debated before 
I came here and before we first had a referendum of this kind. 
I support this legislation to amend the Constitution, so that if it is passed by the people, we will have simultaneous elections for the House of Representatives and for the Senate. I supported this view actively in 1974 when such a proposition was placed before the people and I shall be supporting it when this referendum is held later this year. The party I represent has been consistent in saying that it will support this type of legislation so that the House of Representatives and the Senate will be elected at the same time. I admit that only half the members of the Senate would be elected each time that the House of Representatives is elected. Nevertheless in such a case we would have removed the sorry situation that we have at the moment and that we have experienced in recent years whereby we have elections for the House of Representatives and later on .have an election of half the members of the Senate, with a continuation of that pattern. 
It is unfortunate that some people have not been consistent in their stand. Of course, consistency is by no means a virtue in itself. However, when we consider the fact that certain people put up a 'no' case against the referendum that we had in 1974- and were so insistent that there should be a 'no' case- and subsequently there was a 'no' vote in respect of this simultaneous election proposal, and then find now that they are advocating a 'yes' case, we might wonder at their motives. It is unfortunate that the Government has now introduced a Bill to provide for a referendum to alter the Constitution so that the House of Representatives and the Senate can be elected on the same date, not because of the principle involved but because of political expediency. I shall come back to the Government's motives shortly. Before I do that let us look at the No case which was proposed in 1974. In the main the No case was proposed by many of the people who are now proposing the Yes case. In the booklet which was sent to every elector at that time there were comments about the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill 1 974. The No case stated: 
This referendum will make the Senate a rubber-stamp of a socialist, centralist Labor Government. 
If that is the case, would it not do so in the future? Would it not make the Senate the rubber stamp of a tory, conservative, centralist Liberal government? The No case also stated that the Government was being deceitful. Is this Government not being deceitful if it made those claims last time? I think it is now being deceitful but for reasons different from those proposed in 1974. Let us have a look in more detail at what was said in the No case. It stated: 
The dishonesty of this referendum question is that it says this is the only way to get Senate and House of Representatives elections held together. That is simply untrue. 
Would it similarly not be untrue nowadays if that was the case for a No vote then? The argument in the pamphlet went on: 
The Constitution, the law and Parliamentary practice allows each Prime Minister to have a House of Representatives election on the same day as any Senate election. He can have the House of Representatives and Senate elections on the same day simply by his own decision. 
That is probably over stating the case a little, but if that were the case then should it not be the case now? Finally, the pamphlet stated: 
The fact that this Prime Minister does not do so, exposes the fraud of this referendum. 
If that were the case then, why does not this Prime Minister choose to do so and bring the House of Representatives and the Senate elections together by calling them on the same date? Let me make it clear that I believe that the No case was an incorrect case. But if the No case which was presented then was the correct case, how can the present Government suddenly turn around and make a yes case? It seems most illogical to me. If we have a look at the real reason I suppose the Government's motives are not so illogical. Earlier mention was made in the debate to some of the remarks of the present Leader of the Government  (Senator Withers)  when these Bills were being debated in 1974. Let us reflect and see what remarks the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  made in 1974 when he was in Op- position. Of course, he was not the Leader of the opposition at that time. He stated: 
The first Bill concerns holding simultaneous elections between the House of Representatives and the Senate. The referendum would be 2 things, it would reduce the average term of every  Senator and  secondly, it would make sure that the 2 elections are held concurrently for the Senate and the House of Representatives. The referendum is quite unnecessary if  Mr Whitlam  wants simultaneous elections all he has to do is to pull out the House of Representatives with the Senate some time before June. We would welcome it. 
Why is  Mr Fraser  now saying' that we should have a referendum to alter the Constitution, following the will of the people, so that we will have simultaneous elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate? All the minor conditions which he mentioned in that paragraph which I read still hold. The proposal will reduce the average term of every senator after this transitional period because 'senators will not serve for terms of 6 years. They will have terms equal to 2 terms of the Parliament which will undoubtedly, in the long run, mean that their term will be less than 6 years. The same principle also holds good here. If the Prime Minister wants simultaneous elections all he has to do is take out the House of Representatives with the Senate sometime in the next financial year. We, of course, would welcome that. But that is the very reason, why this Bill has been brought before the Senate and the House of Representatives at the present time.  Mr Fraser  does not want any type of election before the end of 1 978. 
If we were to have a single Senate election it would have to be held as late as the last Saturday in June 1978. In practice this would probably mean that the latest time we could have it would be about May 1978. This being the case, the Government would be in something of a dilemma. Would it, in fact, hold a House of Representatives election at the same time, that is in May 1978, or would it wait and have the House of Representatives election some 6 months after the Senate election? I do not think having 2 elections so close together would go down too well with the electors. But, of course, the Government thinks that the longer it continues in office the more chance it has of holding some of its seats in the House of Representatives. So it is determined to go as long as it possibly can. That is the main reason why this Bill has been introduced at this stage. The last thing the Government wants is a Senate election prior to the end of June 1978. It knows that if it had a Senate election and a House of Representatives election simultaneously then it would be not only defeated, it would be slaughtered. 
If the Government were genuine about its proposals to bring elections for the 2 Houses together it could propose a date not in May but some time after 1 July this year. This would provide the opportunity for a Senate election to be held. Of course, initially, it is not up the Commonwealth Government or the GovernorGeneral to call a Senate election. If this referendum proposal were put down not for May but for some time in July or after that it would allow some of the States at least to call a Senate election. The Government could have done this. It would then have acted within the 6-month period which is allowed for the holding of a referendum. But the Government decided that the vote on the referenda proposals had to be held in May because, at that stage, there would be no possibility that the Government would have to face the will of the people at a Senate election. 
I am pleased that this Bill has been brought forward. I look forward to the proposal being passed by the people so that the Constitution can be altered and so that we can have the House of Representatives election and the Senate election on the same date. However I am displeased at the motives which suggested to the Government that it should not only bring this Bill before the Parliament but should do so now so that it will not have to face a Senate election later this year or in 1978. 
Prior to 1 96 1 there was not much need to think about the necessity for the elections for the 2 Houses to be in line. I know that many people did, and certainly the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review looked at this question before 1961. Those people who looked at it must have been fairly far seeing, even those who had a dissenting view, because after that review it was revealed what a cumbersome situation could prevail when the elections for the 2 Houses became out of line. However prior to 1961 only one Senate election had been held by itself and not in conjunction with a House of Representatives election. That was in 1953. If we look at the circumstances in 1977 we will see that they are somewhat the same as were those in 1953. In 1953 the 2 Houses became out of phase because of the double dissolution in 1951. In 1929 and 1954 House of Representatives elections were held by themselves and not in conjunction with a Senate election. However 1953 was the only time when a Senate election had been held not in conjunction with a House of Representatives election up to 1961. 
In 1961 we had a Senate and a House of Representatives election but following that an early election was called for the House of Representatives in 1963. The Prime Minister at the time had a very narrow majority in the House of Representatives. Political life was quite uncomfortable for him. He could see that at the end of 1963, especially if he sent someone overseas to put in an order for some F111 aircraft, he might be able to secure a better majority if he called the House out early. This is what he did. However, he could not call the Senate out early because the Constitution quite clearly states that senators shall be chosen for a term of 6 years. So in 1964 there was a necessity for a Senate election. There was no need to bring the House of Representatives out because the Prime Minister at that stage had a comfortable majority in the House of Representatives. So we had a Senate election by itself and the pattern continued. In 1966 there was an election for the House of Representatives. In 1967 there was an election for the Senate. In 1969 there was an election for the House of Representatives. In 1970 there was an election for the Senate. In 1972 there was an election for the House of Representatives. Each election was for one House only. 
The people in the electorate were becoming heartily tired of election after election because not only did they have to elect people for the House of Representatives and the Senate but also they had to elect their State representatives and their local government representatives. Many of them found that there was just one long run of elections, and the pattern would have continued if it had not been for the double dissolutions in 1974 and 1975. If we had not had the double dissolution in 1975 the pattern would have continued after the 1974 double dissolution because the senators' terms would have been backdated and there would not have been the necessity to hold a House of Representatives election at the same time as a Senate election. Of course, that did not happen because we had a further double dissolution in 1975. 
What has happened now? We have the case again where the two will be out of line unless something is done because the Senate election must be held by the last Saturday in June 1978 or, more correctly according to the Constitution, on the last day of June 1978. 1 mention Saturday because that is the day on which the Electoral Act says we shall have our elections. 
The House of Representatives has a 3-year term and could go to the end of 1978 or, more precisely, until the early part of 1979. So if we have the House of Representatives going for its full term the 2 Houses will again be out of line. This sorry state will continue for some time in the way it continued after 1 96 1 when we had a series of House of Representatives elections followed by Senate elections. I believe that if that process continued democracy in Australia would be harmed because elections would not have the same impact. They would not have the same importance to the electors as they would if we had fewer elections for the 2 Houses and if the elections for the 2 Houses were held together. 
It was mentioned earlier that if we had fewer elections the cost would be much less. This is an important consideration not only for the major parties who contest the elections but also for the people, who, through taxation, have to fund the elections each time they are held. The cost of holding a House of Representatives election in conjunction with a Senate election will be much less than if they were held at different times. Too many elections are not good for government whichever government might be in power.  Mr Fraser  realises that. He wants to bring the 2 elections into line so that he does not need to have a Senate election in 1978 and can continue with his unpopular policies for longer than he normally would have been able to. 
Let us look at what the 1958 Joint Committee on Constitutional Review said about having too many elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate out of line. Among other things it said: 
It is not conducive to sound Government that the future of a recently elected Government should depend upon the eventualities of elections for senators which take place during the normal life of the House of Representatives ... If separate elections for senators are held, work of the Parliament is completely disrupted. Members of the House of Representatives, as well as senators, must devote their energies to the task of obtaining the best possible results for their respective parties at the elections. 
That was said in 1958 and today it holds as good as or even better than it did in 1958. 
I support wholeheartedly this legislation which will allow the people of Australia to decide whether they want the House of Representatives and the Senate to have simultaneous elections. When the time comes for the points to be put before the people I shall be putting forward as cogently and vigorously as I can the case for simultaneous elections because I believe that it is in the best interests of the 2 Houses and of the Commonwealth Parliament. It is with deep regret that I say that this Government has introduced this legislation at this stage not to secure the principle of simultaneous elections but to solve the practical problem that it would have to face the people earlier than the end of 1978 if it did not do so. My Party and I accept that if the referendum is passed the Government will not have to face the people before the end of 1978. We should like it to face the people but we believe that the principle is too strong and too great not to support this proposal simply because of political expediency- a principle that the Government is using at the moment. I support the proposal for the referendum; I shall be supporting the referendum when it comes before the people. I am hopeful that the people will pass it because if it is passed it will be to the betterment of the whole of this national Parliament. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (4.45)- I am rather interested in some of the observations that have been made by honourable senators in which it has been claimed that such a senator as I has been wilfully obstructionist, for example, in announcing as I did last week my clear attitude towards the proposal to bring down these referendum Bills. My attitude to that was clear; that is, that this is the place where arguments have to be adduced as to why there should or should not be a referendum. That is basic. Contemplate the events in the other place where all 4 Bills were debated cognately. They were voted on separately, of course. Being referendum Bills they had to be. They were not considered in the Committee stage in the other place. In other words these Bills were steam rollered through the House of Representatives and no opportunity was provided by which the chosen representatives of the people in the House of Representatives could force out into the open reasons which would lead the Government to bring down these referendums. Slowly and remorselessly here in the Senate over the past 2 days some of the reasons have been coming out, but not all of them. 
In speaking to the Constitutional Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill- the one we are considering at present- I first wish to add strongly and emphatically opposition to the manner in which these Bills came before this House. In common with all other honourable senators I assume, my first intimation of the existence of these Bills was last Tuesday on an aircraft when I picked up a newspaper and read that these constitutional alteration Bills were to be brought in. That was the first knowledge any honourable senator, except for some favoured people, knew of them. No one else had any information. We got no explanation from the ministry as to why the date for this referendum was plucked out of the air, why these Bills must be accepted as dogma by the Government. No reason was given why the deliberative processes were not followed and the interests of the people who have been quoted extensively here today have changed. All was unexplained by the Government. An inexplicable timetable was presented. 
I shall not take much time of the Senate. Some of the matters my colleagues and I began to bring out are coming out. The Senate has rejected, not for any improper reasons or for reasons of its own status in the sense that honourable senators would have their terms of office shortened, the concept of simultaneous elections 4 times and the people have rejected it once. Yet in it comes again. Last week I was left with a sense of deep dismay because all the answers I could get indicated that the attitude of the Government was based at the very least on sophistry. When that flowed into my mind I went back to see who was the great proponent of sophistry as a method of argument. I found without much difficulty that the original sophist claimed that right is what is beneficial for the stronger. That is the essence of the argument. In numerical terms the other place is stronger than the Senate and what is right for the stronger group is right in terms of argument. 
I do not care what anyone says. The simultaneous election Bill is designed to weaken the power of the Senate. All sorts of explanations have been given about the Senate being out of phase with the House of Representatives. We know it is out of phase with the House of Representatives.  Senator Colston  demonstrated how it became out of phase. The option has been before governments since 1963 to bring it back into phase. All a government would have had to do was bring the House of Representatives out a little earlier than it was expected. The real reason that the Opposition is supporting this Bill was let loose by  Senator Button  the other night. I quote the  Hansard  record of the debate on the constitutional alteration legislation. In the first column of page 261  Senator Button-  I admire his franknessis recorded as saying: 
Of course, the real importance and significance of this proposal from our point of view in the Opposition is that it does what many of its critics say it will do. It limits the significance and influence of the Senate. That is something which I would have thought is desirable in the interests of good government in this country. 
I look back at the events of 1975 and the 'scandalous and reprehensible actions of a government'. I am quoting the present Prime Minister who said that. The Senate had every right to take action to deal with the reprehensible action of government. In 1975 there was an inescapable obligation on the Senate to take the action that it took. There is no apologist anywhere in this Parliament or anywhere else who can condemn the Senate for the action it was forced to take at that time. 
By way of interjection this afternoon  Senator McLaren  said that as far as the Australian Labor 
Party is concerned its concurrence in these proposals is designed to lead to the ultimate truncation of the Senate, its withering away and its final disappearance. A curious situation that has disturbed me is the growth of central government all over the world. I remember sitting on Committee D of the Constitutional Convention. A distinguished member of the Australian Labor Party with whom I was sitting turned to me and asked: 'Are you in favour of this?' I said: 'No, nothing will persuade me to accept it'. He said: Nothing will persuade me to accept it'. I asked: Why?' He said: 'Because the whole of my life in politics and in law has demonstrated to me clearly and conclusively that big government is dangerous government'. Then he went on to say: I hate big government'. And I hate big government in psychological terms because I am fearful of big government. 
I am no iron clad conservative. I have had a reputation in this Senate on and off for the last 20 years in my Party as being a howling radical. But as the years have gone by and I have witnessed the events that have taken place I have come more and more to the conclusion that the Senate is a chamber that has to be maintained. I have not agreed with all the actions that have been taken in the Senate. I did not agree with the events that took place in 1974 and I said so when I sat across from where I sit at present. I think that the Senate has a responsibility to be very careful about what it does in terms of the House of government. It has an absolute right to delay legislation. It has an unqualified right to reject legislation. It can give attention to legislation to which the other place, in fact, does not give attention. 
For example, we all know what happened in relation to some of the Bills which originated in the House of Representatives and came into this place or which originated in this place. They were sent away to Senate committees and were found to be so badly drafted that they had to be amended. This was carried out by honourable senators from all parties sitting on the Senate committees. Finally, the legislation became better law. That is the role of the Senate. It is a particular role. It also has a role in terms of committees. I do not think that there is an honourable senator present today or an elector in Australia who is not indebted to the hard work of the Senate committee system. The Senate is a committee House. It is a review House. The House of Representatives is the House of government. All the arguments I have heard this afternoon about the events of 1975 go completely over my head. I will not accept any of those arguments because the action mat was taken then was the action that was required by the Australian people, and they upheld it. They upheld the referendum that was placed before them, because they were frightened of big government. They upheld the action of the Senate in the election of December 1975 because they realised that the government had to be changed 
I said earlier that I was disturbed and distressed at the growth of big government. There is an interesting observation that I must make before I sit down. It sounds a warning to every elector in Australia and to every honourable senator. From 1933, after  Mr Roosevelt  became  President  of the United States of America, there commenced the growth of presidential power. It has continued right though the various administrations. It was modified under  President  Eisenhower, reasserted under  President  Kennedy and totally reasserted by  President  Johnson. Finally, under  President  Nixon the growth of the Executive power reached such a stage that the staff in the White House surrounding the  President  numbered over 5000 people. The ability of the Congress to control the Executive power reached the stage where finally the Congress, although it was loath to attack the 2 Democratic Party presidents who occupied that office before  President  Nixon-the Democratic majorities were in control of both Houses of the Congress- decided to assert the congressional power against the power of the Executive, against  President  Nixon. It was only under the threat of impeachment by the Senate of the United States of America that  President  Nixon finally met his Waterloo and had to resign. 
No one can claim that there is not beginning here in Australia- certainly we saw it for the first time under the Honourable E. G. Whitlam when he was Prime Minister- an enormous growth in the Prime Minister's power. In all the formative years that I spent here in the Senate, the Prime Minister was  primus inter pares,  that is, first among equals; but there began in 1972 a new phenomenon that all other Ministers were less than the Prime Minister and the power of the Prime Minister became more enhanced and he became more powerful. The reorganisation which then went on in the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and which is still continuing means that there is imbedded in the Prime Minister's office all the paraphernalia that in the last 20 years normally was found in the office of the  President  of the United States of America. As long as I sit in the Senate I will not accept that I am compelled to accept the dogma of the executive government, whether it be its administrative component or its political component. I am opposed to this Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill because I believe that it is the first downward step in a move by which Parliament will become a mere adjunct of the executive of the day. 
I conclude with one observation to show honourable senators how ludicrous it is to say that the Senate has to go to the people whenever the House of Representatives goes to the people or that whatever the contrivance is the House of Representatives goes to the people and drags the tail of its cart- half of the Senate- with it. In the year 1929 the government of that day, as a result of intrigues amongst its members, was in office for 7 months. It then went to the GovernorGeneral and complained that the House of Representatives was unmanageable. A dissolution of the House of Representatives was given. It would be an interesting experience for the younger honourable senators sitting in their places today if in a few years ' time- the nature of man being what it is, this possibility exists- a gross disagreement amongst the parties occurred in the House of Representatives. If that government had been elected for 6 months, a guiltless Senate would be dragged out to go to the people merely because the members of the House of Representatives could not agree amongst themselves. That is what is being projected. That is what will happen. Therefore, I will continue to resist this Bill and its march through the Senate. I know that the numbers are against me and any colleagues who care to support me; but we are providing an opportunity for the people, who quite rightly have been lauded this afternoon as the source of all power, to make a judgment. I hope that they make the correct judgment. They have not been very wrong yet. With those concluding remarks, I ask that as many honourable senators as feel able to do so to support me in the referendum. 
-I refer this evening to what I believe was a scurrilous letter which was published recently in the Brisbane  Telegraph.  In many cases it is not worth while answering some of the letters that appear in newspapers where those letters are of bad taste. It is often better to ignore them. However in this case I do not believe that this approach would be the best strategy to use. On 21 February in the Brisbane  Telegraph  there appeared a letter which I have already described as scurrilous and I will leave it to honourable senators to form their own opinion on whether that is a correct description of it. The relevant parts of the letter, which appeared under the heading 'Mail Sabotage?' read: 
Employees of Australia Post sometimes sabotage the mail of conservative groups and individuals. 
The Post Office is not owned privately, so its employees feel it is their right to decide what deserves to go through the mails. Mail for their political enemies suffers. 
In this way, conservatives are hindered in organising and communicating with one another, and the essential rights of free citizens are destroyed. 
If a privately owned business had employees who did this, it would lose its customers, but not the Post Office. 
As a government-owned coercive monopoly, the Post Office stays in business and considers competition with itself to be a crime. 
Those are the relevant parts of the letter. It was signed by a P. D. Rachemann of Gray Road, Hill End. 
Without any evidence this writer has accused Australia Post employees of sabotaging the mail. He has accused them of deciding what deserves to go through the mail and has stated that the essential rights of free citizens are destroyed. He casts a slur on Australia Post when he says that it has no wish for any competition with any other organisation. There are 2 aspects to this letter, one concerning staff members of Australia Post and the other concerning Australia Post as an organisation. Two replies were made to this letter but only one of them was published. I will first read the reply that the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union made to this letter. 
The reply was sent to the editor of the Brisbane  Telegraph  at Campbell Street, Bowen Hills. Unfortunately until today this letter still has not been published. It reads: 
-Is the Minister for Science aware that a report in the  Australian Financial Review  dated 6 December 1976 stated that  Dr George  Heinsohn, Senior Lecturer in Zoology at James Cook University, called for a study of the effects upon the marine environment of shark meshing, in view of the possible ecological effects of the killing of large numbers of sharks? Has the Minister given consideration to adopting  Dr Heinsohn  's suggestion or, in fact, has a study been commenced by the Minister's Department? If the Minister has not given consideration to  Dr Heinsohn  's suggestion, will he agree to do so and later to inform the Senate whether a study will be made using the research facilities of the Department of Science? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
When does the Minister expect to be able to announce the Government's definite proposals for the establishment of a National Rural Bank? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many patrol boats available for patrol duty in Australian waters are currently not operational. 
How many are operational. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the drug Agarol been deleted from the pharmaceutical benefits list. Ifso, why. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is information obtained by taxation authorities available to the Department of Social Security. If so, what are the procedures by which this information is made available? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Government given consideration to altering the taxation on lump sum payments, on termination of employment or retirement, from l/20th of that sum to the total or some other fraction. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Does the Department of Social Security actively advertise the possible availability of special benefit to lone fathers who seek assistance from the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Is the Australian Government currently planning a controlled oil leak experiment. If so, what are the details. 
I am sorry that the time allowed for this debate is shorter than I had hoped it would be. Nevertheless I am happy to be able to speak on this Bill. In politics I suppose we see a number of ironies at times. I think that perhaps it is the ultimate irony that I am able to stand here today in this chamber to support this Bill. I say that it is ironic because I was a victim of the lack of the provisions that this legislation contains. With the will of the people the Constitution may be altered so that persons of the same political party as those who have left can be appointed to the Senate in their place. Most honourable senators and I suppose many people who are listening to the broadcast of these proceedings would recall that in 1975, because of the lack of the provisions that this legislation contains, I was one of the victims of the events that happened then. More importantly, if we leave the personal aspects aside, the Australian Labor Party was the victim. But ultimately parliamentary democracy in Australia in 1975 was a victim of the lack of this legislation. I am well aware of the events that happened because I was a pawn in the big game that was carried on then. It was a game with a series of serious aspects. I was involved in it. 
In the short time that is left in this debate I should like to outline some of those events of 1975. Much has been said about the filling of casual vacancies since 1949, and with much reason. Proportional representation was introduced in 1949 in the election for representatives of this chamber. But little has been said about the filling of casual vacancies before 1949. Recently Professor Joan Rydon wrote an excellent article entitled  Casual Vacancies in the Australian Senate.  In this article Joan Rydon outlined the history of the filling of casual vacancies, mainly before 1949. 1 shall mention a few of the things that she wrote. She outlined that the principle of appointing successors from the same political party was frequently asserted prior to 1949, but not necessarily followed. In fact if one reads the article cue sees that the majority of vacancies before 1949 were filled by people of the same political party as the holders of the seats they took. But this was almost by accident, not by design. I commend Professor Rydon 's article to those people who are interested in this aspect of Australia's political history. 
Of course with proportional representation it has been important that the person who replaces a deceased or retired senator should come from the same political party as the person whom he replaces. There have been 2 instances in Queensland where that principle was not followed. One of the instances resulted in a person of the same political party being appointed. Some people remember what happened in the early 1960s. Max Poulter was elected to the Senate as a senator from Queensland but before he could take his place in the Senate he died. Alf Arnell was the next candidate on the Labor Senate ticket at that election and he was nominated by the Australian Labor Party. The Premier of Queensland at the time would not accept his nomination and the Australian Labor Party finally put forward a second name, that of George Whiteside, who became a senator in this place. I will refer to the other situation in Queensland shortly. 
Before I do that, let me remind honourable senators of what happened in New South Wales. The former  Senator Murphy  resigned. Peter Westerway was nominated by the Australian Labor Party to take  Senator Murphy  's-place, But the New South Wales Parliament elected  Senator Bunton.  On 4 May last year I clearly outlined in the Senate what had occurred in Queensland. Let me just recap some of the events. There was a deliberate conspiracy in Queensland in 1975 to make sure that Bert Milliner, a former senator, was not replaced by a Labor nominee.  Senator Bert  Milliner died on 30 June 1975. 
Few people expected that the Premier of Queensland would move in the way that he did. The filling of this vacancy involved the death of a sitting senator. It is important to remember what the Premier said at that time. He said only 2 days after the death:  in the case of a death, it is logical to appoint a man from the same Party. 
Yet he went on to trail his coat by saying that the Labor Party: 
. would have to put forward a panel of candidates from which a choice would be made. 

 Mr Bjelke-Petersen, the Premier of Queensland, well knew at that time that I had been endorsed already as the candidate of the ALP for the next Senate election. He knew that, if he asked for a panel of candidates, the Labor Party would not accede to his request because I was the next candidate who had been endorsed by the Party. 
The Party called nominations. After those nominations were called, I was nominated to the 2 sittings of the Queensland Parliament on 27 August 1975 and 3 September 1975. The person who was selected washy no means a Labor supporter. As soon as he nominated to fill the vacancy he lost membership of the Australian Labor Party. The Premier of Queensland was well aware of that. Because of this action, the Senate was stacked in 1975. When I spoke in May, I suggested that there should be a referendum to cover the situation that had arisen in this instance. I said in May last year: 
Those who do care about the 1 975 incident should support any moves to have the deliberations of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review in relation to casual vacancies investigated further. Perhaps it may be possible to frame a suitable amendment to frustrate the will of a future maverick Premier. 
Because of what I have experienced, because of what I have seen happen and because casual vacancies have not been filled in the way I think they should be, I wholeheartedly support this legislation. 
Incidentally, the legislation will not allow a pseudo appointment to be made as was the case in 1975 because, as soon as the person nominated loses his party membership before coming into the Senate, the vacancy is deemed not to have been made. I suppose that a State parliament still might not fill a vacancy. There does not seem to be anything in the legislation to say that it must fill a vacancy. This legislation goes a long way towards ensuring that the Senate retains the proportional representation that was given to it by the electors at the time of the election. It has my wholehearted support. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
With respect to the Treasurer's announcement that a' new commemorative 50 cents coin is to be minted in Australia in 1977, and since the 50 cent coin is not currently in use in slot machines and automatic dispensing machines and thus no expense will be incurred by the business community, will the Treasurer consider an alteration to the announced size and weight of the new coin so that it is equal in size and weight to an exact metric measurement, rather than to a fraction of a metric measurement, in order that Australia can have at least one coin that is measured in whole metric rather than whole imperial units. 
If the Treasurer is considering the minting of a $1 coin in Australia, a course that was recommended by the  President  of the Queensland Confederation of Industry,  Mr A.  J. Willis, and the  Chairman  of the Queensland Branch of the Australian Bankers' Association,  Mr H.  Lee, in an article in the  Courier-Mail  dated 5 December 1976, will the Treasurer give consideration to the possibility of minting the new coin with a size and weight equal to an exact metric measurement. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is every State Police Commissioner in Australia in favour of the Federal Government granting police limited powers to tap telephones in Australia, subject to judicial oversight, as was suggested by the former Queensland Police Commissioner,  Mr Ray  Whitrod, at his farewell Press conference in Brisbane on 29 November 1976. If so, (a) Why has the 
Federal Government refused permission for these powers to be granted; (b) What would be the advantages of providing police with power to tap telephones in certain circumstances; (c) What would be the disadvantages of so doing; and (d) Does the Attorney-General intend reviewing this matter in the foreseeable future. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How long must immigrants to Australia reside in this country before they become eligible for age pensions at the age at which pension becomes payable. 
Do immigrants who are (a) naturalised and (b) not naturalised, who have qualified for and receive an aged pension, continue to receive the pension if they return to their home country. 
Can immigrants who are (a) naturalised and (b) not naturalised, and who have qualified but do not yet receive age pension, receive the pension after they return to their home country. 
How many former migrants to Australia are now residing overseas and receiving an age pension and what is the total cost to the Australian Government. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the text of instructions given to staff of the Department of Social Security in relation to applications for unemployment benefit from persons who are voluntarily unemployed and from persons whose unemployment is due to misconduct. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
What funds have been provided by the Commonwealth to each State and for Australia as a whole for State welfare housing in each financial year since 1 970-7 1 . 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What is the full text of the former Prime Minister's letter, dated 9 July 1974, to the Premiers of Queensland, New South Wales and Western Australia, informing those States of new environmental impact arrangements to be observed when seeking approval for export contracts for sand mining products. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Will 10 Australian Capital Territory police cars and 6 motor cycles be replaced after they are taken off the road shortly, because of Federal Government cutbacks. If not, what effect is this decision likely to have on law enforcement within the Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Was it necessary to re-print portions of the 1 973-74 annual report of the Australian Film and Television School. If so, why was it necessary and what additional cost was involved. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did a taxation judgment given in October 1976 rule that a lump sum superannuation payment received in lieu of future periodical superannuation payments is not taxable. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Prime Minister been requested by the Queensland Premier to reverse the Federal Government's decision to delay the building of a medical school at James Cook University for three years. If so, (a) what was the substance of the request, (b) when was the request received, (c) when does the Prime Minister expect to be able to reply to  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  and (d ) what was the reason for the original decision to delay the establishment of the medical school for three years. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Queensland Government placed in writing its request for an additional $10m over and above the $80m originally requested in compensation for the decision to ban sand mining on Fraser Island. If so, (a) when was the request received and (b) when is it likely a decision will be reached by the Federal Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What funds have been provided by the Commonwealth for Kingaroy Airport in each year since 1 960. 
How many (a) aircraft movements and (b) jet aircraft movements, have there been in and out of Kingaroy Airport in each year since 1960. 
Has the Commonwealth recently agreed to provide additional funds to upgrade Kingaroy Airport. If so (a) what are the details and (b) who officially requested the upgrading of Kingaroy Airport. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Federal Government considered legislation to compel persons or companies selling hearing aids to inform prospective clients of the facilities available from the Commonwealth Government to persons with hearing difficulties. If not, will the Government give this matter consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice: 
With reference to the Minister's reply to Question No. 1387 (Senate  Hansard,  10 December 1 976, page 3088) why was the additional appropriation of an estimated $10,841,000 necessary; and 
Can the Minister provide a more detailed breakdown of the estimated additional appropriation. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Do Aboriginal and Islander women living on reserves in Queensland not receive family allowance. If so, is the Minister taking any action to rectify this situation. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is the Minister currently seeking a new person for her personal staff. If so, what was the reason for the departure of the former incumbent of the position concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
With reference to the Minister's reply to Senate Question No. 1311, relating to the Cedar Bay police raid, what ' activities occurring outside State jurisdiction' was it considered could have been encountered. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Why has the Federal Government agreed not to place any conditions on the Queensland Government's spending of the $ 10m compensation to the decision not to allow sand-mining on Fraser Island. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Has the Federal Government any jurisdiction over the use of Cooloola National Park in Queensland. If so (a) what are the details, and (b) what action is the Minister taking to investigate proposals by the Queensland Government to allow rutile mining at Cooloola. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Does the Minister intend implementing the Australian Wool Corporation's proposals for reform of Australia's system of wool marketing. If so, when. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that at present there are no funds available for the National Estate grants programs. If so, (a) why and (b) when will funds become available. 
-I ask the Minister for Education: Is it a fact that tertiary institutions and student unions have not been contacted directly to seek their views on the inquiry into the desirability of implementing a system of student loans? Did those bodies which presented submissions by the cut-off date of 1 March learn about the request for their views purely through newspaper advertisements? If so, is the Minister aware that many universities and student unions were forced to prepare rushed submissions? I particularly instance here the University of Queensland and also the University of Queensland Union. I believe that the latter was forced to incorporate its views in the University administration's submission through lack of adequate time. In view of the increasing concern at suggestions that the Butcher report will result in student loans replacing rather than supplementing tertiary education assistance scheme assistancedespite the Minister's comments earlier today- will the Minister ensure that additional time is allowed for further submissions and, as in the case of Queensland University, for more detailed submissions, to be presented for consideration? 
This evening I bring to the notice of the Senate a further disturbing consequence of the Fraser Government's action in relation to Medibank during 1976. Through no fault of their own, hospital patients and hospital administrators are now liable to find themselves in a most embarrassing position. I explain by reading to the Senate a letter which I received from a constituent about a situation in which he recently found himself. In reading the letter it will be noticed that the Mater Misericordiae Private Hospital is mentioned. This reference is to the Mater Misericordiae Private Hospital in South Brisbane. I in no way reflect on that hospital but will state the dilemma which confronts the administrators of the hospital. The letter from my constituent reads as follows: 
As discussed on the telephone on 4th February 1977, 1 enclose a roneoed form from the Mater Hospital stating fees etc., for the private section. I would like to bring your notice to the section that begins: 'It is essential, therefore'. 
I interrupt my quotation from the letter to mention that the relevant section of the roneoed form from the hospital states: 
It is essential, therefore, that your accounts be paid in full weekly, or on discharge. 
The letter continues: 
After having my wife in Mater Private for S days from the 26th of January 1977, it was to cost me a personal cheque for $400. On inquiring from Medibank, I was told that my medical expenses would be refunded in 'about 3-4 weeks'. 
Taking this into account, it would be very easy therefore, to run up a bill of around $2,000, which according to the Mater Hospital, would have to be paid personally before receiving any refund from Medibank. 
Shouldn't it be that a hospital should accept a patient's Medibank (or whatever fund they might be in) book and claim directly on that fund, therefore saving what could cause personal monetary problems for an average wage earner. 
That is the end of the letter. The position is that patients can find themselves in a situation where they know that they will eventually receive a refund for their hospital fees from their health insurance fund but first have to outlay funds themselves. It is scarcely necessary for me to emphasise the financial problems which this may cause a hospital patient. After I received this letter I wrote to the Mater Misericordiae Hospital seeking some information about the circumstances which had been outlined to me. My letter read: 
A constituent has written to me outlining the difficulty which he experienced in having to pay his hospital accounts before he was able to claim from his medical benefits organisation. Apparently he was told that variance in fund payments makes it impracticable for the hospital to claim on behalf of patients. 
I can understand the difficulty that some patients would have in having to outlay funds and then later receiving a refund from their medical benefits organisation. 
I would be grateful therefore if you could outline to me why it is impracticable for you to claim on behalf of patients. 
That is the end of my letter. I received a very prompt reply to my letter and, as the matters raised in the reply are germane to my comments, I quote from the text of the letter which was sent to me. The letter read: 
In reply to your letter of 21st February, 1977, re the difficulty one of your constituents experienced in having to pay his hospital account before being able to claim Medical Benefits, I would like to offer you some explanation as you requested. 
We do have a Hospital Policy whereby patients are requested that accounts be paid weekly and /or on discharge. An information sheet is given to each patient on admission and this fact is clearly stated on it. 
Further, on the same sheet, it is also stated that variance in Fund Benefits make it impracticable for the Hospital to claim on behalf of patients. Prior to October, last year we did claim quite often but at that time there was not so much variation as there is today e.g. package deals, varying scales, and the length of time on claims for over a period of twelve months, in certain cases. One would not be able to easily determine that any patient who was admitted here had not already claimed elsewhere. Business wise, then, you would see the Policy we have- and indeed most Private Hospitals today have- is the most satisfactory. 
However, let me hasten to assure you that if any patient has a difficulty, he or she is quite at liberty to talk to the administration about it, and would certainly get a sympathetic and understanding hearing. We have found this a practical and reasonable thing to do with patients from time to time. I'm only sorry your constituent didn't see Matron or myself re the problem and I'm sure the particular difficulty could have been ironed out. 
Most patients coming to Private Hospitals are booked patients, rather than emergency cases, and would have known of costs etc. prior to admission and could have any queries dealt with. 
Our only objective, as you would know, is to do all we can for the welfare of each patient who comes under our care, and we would be available to discuss a problem or endeavour to solve any difficulty they may have at any time and help in any way possible. 
Trusting you find in the above the information you require. 
That is the letter that I received from the Mater Misericordiae Private Hospital. The letter makes  it clear that the Mater Hospital will give a sympathetic and understanding hearing to any patient who finds himself or herself in an embarrassing situation. Further, the hospital administration is to be commended, although knowing the high reputation that the Mater Hospital enjoys I would have expected the administration to have that type of approach. The letter also makes it clear that prior to October the hospital did make direct claims to hospital funds quite often. Let us not forget that the Fraser Government's new scheme was introduced on 1 October. There is now, to use the hospital's own words, 'much variation .... e.g. package deals, varying scales, and the length of time on claims for over a period of 12 months'. The letter goes on to mention some of the other difficulties that now face the hospital administration. It is really not acceptable that patients and hospital staff should find themselves in this situation. It should not be necessary for an insured patient to have to make a special plea to the hospital to bend policy and claim on the fund direct in an individual case. Neither should it be necessary for the hospital administration to be forced to establish a policy which the administration itself knows will be embarrassing to some of its patients. 
Given the poor preparation that surrounded the introduction of the Fraser Government's Medibank scheme, or the new scheme that it adopted from the previous one, it is obvious that many anomalies currently exist. I cannot say that I would have great faith that the Government is taking steps to overcome the anomalies, yet I urge it to do so. As well I urge the Government to look at the case that I have outlined tonight because it is one which is directly of the Government's own making. The situation deserves genuine investigation and subsequent prompt attention to remove financial worries from the minds of both patients and administrators. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Education because I am becoming more confused about the student loans issue. Is it a fact that it is Government policy that any student loans will be supplementary to current student allowances? Is it also a fact that the terms of reference of the committee inquiring into student loans state that the committee should look into the possibility of student loans replacing current allowances? If that is so, are the terms of reference given to the committee at variance with Government policy? If the terms of reference are at variance with Government policy, why was the committee given such terms of reference when the Government would seem to have indicated that it has no intention of accepting any recommendations in relation to student loans replacing current allowances? 
It is pleasing to be able to reply to the Queen's Speech in this chamber. It was with great enthusiasm that Australia welcomed Her Majesty to this country so that we could participate in the Silver Jubilee celebrations. I am pleased that I was able to join in the enthusiasm shown by people in this capital a couple of days ago, an enthusiasm which I am sure will be shown by people throughout the rest of Australia in the days ahead. I was pleased to listen to Her Majesty's Speech, but I am afraid that in preparing it the Government was not candid about the ineptitude it has shown. It is a pity that such a reference was not included in Her Majesty's Speech. I say that not in any way as a reflection on Her Majesty, who read the Speech which was written for her, but as a reflection on the Government itself, which would not show the current position with regard to its actions. 
I intend this afternoon to look at the background to the poor government which is being exhibited in this place and to the people of Australia. In doing that, I will trace some aspects of the promises this Government put before the people in 1975. In the emotion-filled days of late 1975  Mr Fraser  delivered an equally emotionfilled policy speech. At that time, of course, he was the caretaker Prime Minister. He and his colleagues made a grab for power and would not allow a democratically elected government to conclude its 3-year term of office. Nowadays we hear many a suggestion to this effect: 'Let us wait for 3 years to see what we can do in that time'. But, casting back to 1975, we recall that the caretaker government came into power because it would not allow a government elected by the people to go for its full 3 years. However, now that the Liberal and National Country Parties have been in power for about 15 months it is timely for us to look back at  Mr Fraser  's promises and to determine whether those promises have been reflected in performance. Regretfully, when they are examined in detail one can see that those promises have not been so reflected, and there does not seem to be any suggestion that in the near future they will be reflected in performance. 
The Government's actions since 1975 have served to produce nothing but a catalogue of failure, mismanagement and broken promises. It is unfortunate that that was not shown in  Her  Majesty's Speech. It is therefore pertinent now to consider some of the statements  Mr Fraser  made in his policy speech on 27 November 1975. He predicted that the performance of a government led by him would be noted by the people, but how hollow and how false those predictions now appear to be. How disillusioned the people are becoming with a leader and his party who claimed that they had the ability to turn on the lights. It seems that the only thing that is happening is that the gloom is increasing daily. In the opening remarks of his policy speech in November 1975  Mr Fraser  said: 
Let us all as Australians determine to restore prosperity, defeat inflation and provide jobs for all. 
There are 3 principal elements contained in that short statement: Firstly, to restore prosperity; secondly, to defeat inflation; and, thirdly, to provide jobs for all. I propose to consider those elements this afternoon and to see the extent to which the Government has backed up its promises with performance. For convenience, I shall discuss the aspects in the reverse order of that used by  Mr Fraser. 
I intend to deal firstly with the employment situation. In that respect it should be remembered that one of the promises was to provide jobs for all. I have a table which sets out employment statistics for February 1975, 1976 and 1977, and shortly I will seek leave to have that table incorporated in  Hansard.  Before doing so, let me point out that I have used the February statistics because they are the latest available. I could have used the January statistics which in raw terms would have shown a worse performance by the Government, but I have used the February statistics which are the latest available. The January statistics show the same type of trend as I am going to show with these statistics. The statistics for February 1975, 1976 and 1977 show that there is a worsening trend through those 3 years. This table shows the number of unemployed people in Australia as a whole. In 1975 the number was 297 747. In 1976 it had increased to 303 739. By 1977 the February figures showed over 346 000 people registered as unemployed. For Australia as a whole the proportion of the work force which is unemployed has increased also over those 3 years. It increased from 4.99 per cent in 1975 to 5 per cent in 1976 and to 5.7 per cent in 1977. 1 represent the State of Queensland so I should like to say something about the unemployment figures there. It is well to recall that out of the 6 States, Queensland now shows the second highest level of unemployment. The level of unemployment in Queensland is greater than the national average. Using the raw figures for the month of February for those 3 years, we find that the situation has worsened. The number of unemployed has risen from 49 000 in 1975 to over 50 000 in 1976 and to over 54 000 in 1977. There was a slight reduction in the proportion of the work force unemployed from 1975 to 1976-6.3 per cent down to 5.95 per cent. But unfortunately by February 1977 this number has increased again to 6.38 per cent which is greater than for 1975. 
I cite these figures to show that clearly the situation has become worse in 1977 than it was in 1976. It was worse in 1976 than it was in 1975.I seek leave to have this table incorporated in  Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Melzer)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="072232197703105_32_0.jpg"></graphic>

-Still speaking about employment and employment opportunities, it is worth remembering that in February last year the drop in the number of unemployed over that of the previous month was 40 200. In February this year the drop was a meagre 7921. These figures are stark reminders of how serious the unemployment situation is now and the lack of improvement that there has been over the last 12 months. In fact unemployment is worse now than it was a year ago. Yet in the policy speech in 1975, one of the major planks of the present Government was that it would provide jobs for all. It is abundantly clear that the Government is not living up to this promise. So what is the Government saying about the situation? Of course it is very sensitive about it. At any time that the employment situation is revealed and the number of unemployed is shown, there are quite defensive statements about it. So it is pertinent, I think, to look at some of the statements that are being made by the Government at the present stage. The Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  in his Budget Speech on 1 7 August last year said: 
It would be rash to predict any early reduction in unemployment; movements in the remainder of calendar year 1 976 are unlikely to be great. 
By 1977, all going well, we should see the start of a more concerted fall. 
Of course there will be a fall in 1977. Normal seasonal movements will ensure that, but the fall does not suggest that things are going to be any better in 1977 than they were in 1976.I stated a moment ago that the fall from January to February this year was a very meagre one, especially when compared with that of last year. Of course there will be a fall. But we know that last year the Government decided that it would no longer produce seasonally adjusted figures. Therefore, it is ever  so  difficult to look at the figures and compare them with those of months of last year or months that have just gone by. The only thing one can do now with any degree of accuracy is compare month with month; for example, February this year with February last year, or as we go on, March this year with March last year. But what a great way it was for  Mr Lynch  to put it. He said: 'All going well, we should see the start of a more concerted fall'. Could not the Government be more forthright and say what it is going to do to see that there is a concerted fall? This concerted fall is not showing itself at the present stage. I expected that a government would do more than say: 'All going well'. 
When the February figures were announced a little while ago, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  in commenting upon them, simply said that unemployment had peaked. He was not concerned sufficiently to point out the dangerous situation which is developing. He did not bother to compare, as I have done, the February figures for this year with the February figures of last year or the year before. He did not bother to state how small the drop had been from January to February compared with what it was last year. In other words, he was trying to fool the public that the situation is not a bad one. The situation is a desperate one. But  Mr Street  did not allow this to be shown by his comments. 
The previous  speaker, Senator Davidson,  made statements about the number of people now unemployed who had left their jobs of their own accord. This seems to be a favourite ploy at the moment. But do those people who make these statements about people who have left their jobs of their own accord bother to ascertain why they did leave? Have they interviewed young people, as I have, who really had no alternative, because of the situation under which they were working, to leaving their jobs? When those people do leave their jobs, even though the cause may have been great for them to do so, they do not qualify for unemployment benefits immediately. They have to wait for 6 months even though their reason for leaving may have been valid and may have been a good one. 
I believe the prize for the most ostrich-like defence must go to  Mr Eric  Robinson who claimed that unemployment figures were largely a myth. A myth indeed! It is a pity that  Mr Robinson,  who claims that unemployment figures are largely a myth, does not speak to some of those who are unemployed through no fault of their own. 1 wonder whether  Mr Robinson  has ever seen people who have been unemployed through no fault of their own and who have to queue up for a meal at the end of the day- a meal handed out by charity. Has he ever seen a person who has been unemployed look throughout the day for a job and at the end of that day not only have to queue up for a meal but take his family as well so that they can have a decent meal? This is going on today. It is going on in the State that I represent- the State that  Mr Robinson  lives in. Yet he says that unemployment figures are largely a myth. What a hollow way of trying to defend his own Government's actions. It would be worthwhile for  Mr Robinson  to confer with his colleague the Queensland  Deputy  Premier, Treasurer and Liberal Leader,  Mr Knox.  On 3 February this year, addressing a group of Brisbane businessmen  Mr Knox  said: 
The second task which the newly-elected Government had to undertake was to reduce the level of unemployment in Australia. 
There can be no doubt that it has been singularly unsuccessful in its attempts to reduce unemployment. 
It would be well for people who say that unemployment is a myth- members of the Liberal Party- to talk to their colleague in Queensland who lays it straight on the line that this Government is not doing what it said it would do in 1 975 in relation to employment. It is obvious that this Government has failed to deliver the goods. It has not lived up to its promise to provide jobs for all. 
I outlined earlier 3 pertinent elements of  Mr Fraser's  policy speech. One of these was that his 
Government would defeat inflation. The Government promised to defeat inflation but it has exhibited the same complete lack of success. I shall shortly seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a further table. It is the second table that I have and the last that I shall seek to incorporate. It shows the quarterly consumer price index figures from September 1974 to December 1975 for Australia as a whole and for the capital of the State that I represent. For those of my constituents who read this speech in  Hansard-  I believe there will be a few- I point out that the CPI figures are not available for any place in Queensland other than Brisbane. That is why I mentioned Brisbane in this table. When I say Australia as a whole I refer more precisely to the weighted average of the 6 State capital cities. An inspection of this table clearly indicates that since the change of government in 1975 the present Government has been singularly unsuccessful in honouring its promise to defeat inflation. For instance, if we take 1976-I mentioned that 1974 and 1 975 are shown in the table- we see that in March, June, September and December quarters the consumer price index increased by 3 per cent, 2.5 per cent, 2.2 per cent and 6 per cent respectively. There was a similar type of pattern for Brisbane. In the March, June, September and December quarters of 1 976 the consumer price index increased by 3.2 per cent, 2.3 per cent, 2.5 per cent and 6.2 per cent respectively. If one compares these figures with those provided for 1974 and 1 975 one can see that the battle against inflation is not being won. Yet in  Mr Fraser's  policy speech of 1 975 it was stated that the new government would defeat inflation. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the table which shows the quarterly increases in the CPI from September 1974 to December 1976. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Senator Melzer)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 

<graphic href="072232197703105_33_0.jpg"></graphic>

These increases in the CPI occurred despite the statement by  Mr Lynch  in last year's Budget Speech. He said: 
As we have stressed from the outset, we have made our first priority the absolute necessity to combat inflation. 
Even though the Government might be trying to combat inflation it is not being successful. It is not living up to its election promise. There has been criticism of the Government over its failure to honour its election promise regarding inflation. It is easy for the Government to brush this aside as politically motivated comment. Again, if we refer to statements by the  Deputy  Premier in Queensland, can the Government say that his comments are politically motivated? Referring to the then impending CPI figures for the December 1976 quarter,  Mr Knox  said: 
To a very great extent, the Commonwealth has itself to blame for that- it won't be able to blame the unions, the States, or industry. 
The impact of the Medibank levy must have serious repercussion for the fight against inflation, and the resulting wage demands must pose serious problems for every section of industry and business in Australia. 
I believe the passage of time will demonstrate that the restructuring of Medibank was poorly timed, and that the imposition of a levy or tax- because that is really what it is- was inappropriate given the prevailing economic conditions. However, that is for the future, and we must await with both interest and apprehension the release of the CPI figures. 
Of course, those CPI figures have now been released. They show a massive 6 per cent increase for the December quarter. For a Government that lays great claim to reducing inflation it has made some peculiar decisions. Let us consider, for example, those decisions which have increased the rate of inflation: Meddling with Medibank, the new federalism, terminating quarterly company tax adjustments, weakening the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission and, of course, devaluation. All those decisions have helped to increase the inflationary pressures in Australia. Finally, in the trilogy of promises that have not been backed up by performance I refer to the restoration of prosperity. This was mentioned in  Mr Fraser  's policy speech. He said: 
We must determine to restore prosperity. 
All the current evidence suggests that there is no feeling amongst the community that there is any reason to be confident while this Government remains in power. Certainly, wage and salary earners could be forgiven for not having confidence. The Government appears before the Arbitration Commission and pleads that real wages be lowered for wage and salary earners throughout Australia. How hollow the words of support for wage indexation in  Mr Fraser  's policy speech of 27 November 1975 must appear to these people. How hollow all his promises appear now. If we go through  Mr Fraser  's policy speech part by part, promise by promise, we can see that little thought was given then to whether those promises would or could be honoured. They certainly have not been honoured. 
I should like to turn to an aspect which is much different from the economic situation I have been talking about in order to have a look at one more statement made in that policy speech. Very haughtily,  Mr Fraser  said: 
There will be no more jobs for the boys. 
No more jobs for the boys indeed! I think we would be able to compile a great catalogue of jobs for the boys. Let me just mention a few. I shall start with the lesser ones, those that could perhaps be considered candidates as jobs for the boys. I will move on later to those which are definitely jobs of the boys. Let us first consider  Mr David  Hay who was appointed as head of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. He is the father of Andrew Hay who is currently on  Mr Lynch  's staff. Another appointment which may be a candidate as a job for the boys is that of  Mr Harry  M. Miller. He was appointed as a member of the Board of Directors of Qantas Airways Ltd. He is an organiser for the National Country Party.  Mrs Maureen  Barnett 's appointment as head of public relations in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs could be a marginal case, but she could be a candidate. She is the wife of  Mr Fraser's  Press Secretary. I believe that  Mr Wayne  Gibbons was a member of the ministerial staff and that he has since been appointed to an Australian Embassy in South America.  Mr Adrian  Lynch, who has been appointed Assistant Director of the Commonwealth Secretariat's food production and rural development division, was formerly Press Secretary to  Mr Sinclair. 
Those I have mentioned so far are possible candidates for application of the term 'jobs for the boys'; but let us have a look at those to whom the term really can be applied.  Mr John  England, who was formerly the National Country Party member for Calare, is now the Administrator of the Northern Territory. But what about  Mr, now Sir David  Fairbairn? He was Minister for Air from 1962 to 1964. He also held other portfolios. He was Minister for National Development from 1964 to 1969, Minister for Education and Science in 1971 and Minister for Defence in 1971-72.  Sir David  Fairbairn now has been appointed Ambassador to The Netherlands. The appointment was made on 15 December of last year. No jobs for the boys indeed! What about 

 Mr Gordon Freeth, who formerly held many ministerial positions?  His  first ministerial position was Minister for the Interior and Minister for Works, which he held from 1958 to 1963. He held ministerial positions right up until 1969, when he was Minister for External Affairs.  Mr Freeth  has been appointed High Commissioner to London, his appointment having been announced on 20 February of this year. What happened to the statement in the policy speech that there would be no more jobs for the boys? 
The complete lack of honesty and the complete incompetence of the Fraser Government should lead to an election now if  Mr Fraser  really meant what he said in 1975. But I doubt that he did mean what he said when he made his grab for power. He will cling to his ill-gotten power for as long as possible. This being so, his Government must cease its program of ad hockery, it must begin to be honest with Australians and it must deliver the goods. It can do this by adopting the correct strategy. In the minds of the electors it must do so. Their patience, understandably, is wearing very thin. 
-My question which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate relates to an article in the  Courier-Mail  of 22 February 1977. Most of the article is relevant to my question, but to put the question in proper context I wish to quote 3 sentences from the article. These 3 sentences are: 
Commonwealth police have revealed that, in the first 7 months of this financial year, there have been 10 450 cases of forged, false and stolen Government cheques. The figures were produced in documents sent to the Government  Deputy  Whip in the House of Representatives  (Mr Don Cameron, Liberal, Queensland).  The total value of 100 cheques selected at random is $ 16,345. 
Further detailed information is given in the newspaper article. Will the Minister advise whether it is normal practice for the Commonwealth police to provide this type of information to members of Parliament? If it is not normal practice, was this information, in fact, provided to  Mr Donald  Cameron? If so, why? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
What alternative arrangements have been made with the States for the future funding of the Australian Assistance Plan. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) How many copies of an advertisement 'The Colour Catalogue of Australian Stamps' were distributed with copies of Stamp Review. 
Was there any cost incurred by Australia Post in printing the advertisement. If so, what was the cost. 
What fees were paid to Australia Post by the advertiser. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Will the Prime Minister ascertain from each State social welfare Minister how long it took the respective State Governments to prepare their submissions to the Bailey Task Force. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) When and how did the Minister first learn of the existence of the report prepared by Inspector Bob Gray of the Queensland Police Force and forwarded to the former Queensland Police Commissioner on the day following the raid. 
Has the Minister, officers of his Department, or the Minister's personal staff seen a copy of the report. If so (a) who has seen a copy of the report, (b) what action has been taken as a result of the report and (c) does the report make mention of the actions of Federal officers involved in the Cedar Bay raid; if so, what are the details. 
When and how did the Minister first learn that the Queensland Minister for Police had destroyed copies of the report. 
Have Ministers or officers of the Queensland Government in any way sought to influence the Minister in answering queries about the Cedar Bay raid or about events related since the raid. If so, what are the details. 
Did Chief Superintendent Becker and Inspector Atkinson, who were delegated by former Queensland Police Commissioner, Ray Whitrod, to inquire into aspects of the Cedar Bay raid, at any stage during their inquiries interview, or seek to interview, officers of the Minister's Department or of statutory bodies under the Minister's jurisdiction. If so, what are the details. 
Does the Minister currently have access to (a) the Gray report or (b) the Becker report. If so, what action is the Minister taking as a result of study of the report/reports in question. 
My question is addressed to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as Minister for Education or as Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Has the Prime Minister written to all State Premiers foreshadowing increased financial responsibility for the States in education? If so, what proposals has the Prime Minister made and what reaction has been received from State Premiers? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What funding does the Australian Foundation on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence receive from the Commonwealth Government. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What funding has the Australian Government provided to the Queensland Council of Social Service in each year since 1970. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Did a Royal Australian Air Force aircraft ferry a small quantity of distillate to Lizard Island in north Queensland last year. If so, 
when did the trip in question take place, 
what was the flight route, 
what type of aircraft was involved. 
what was the cost of the trip, 
to whom was the fuel consigned, and where was it obtained, and 
what other cargo was carried by the aircraft on the trip in question. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 March 1 977: 
1 ) Why has the charterof the Queensland Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation not been renewed since the original charter expired on 30 June 1 976. 
) What is the function of the Committee. 
3 ) What is the staff establishment of the Committee. 
What has been the total cost of maintaining the Committee 's staff and premises since 30 June 1 976. 
5 ) What has been occupying the work days of the staff of the Committee since 30 June 1976. 
6 ) When does the Minister intend taking action to ensure that the Committee recommences activities as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) What reasons has the Queensland Premier given to the Prime Minister for the former's statement, reported in the  Australian,  dated 14February 1977, that 'there were traitors in Canberra's Public Service'. 
Does the Prime Minister intend to accept the Queensland Premier's advice that he should 'go through his Public Service with a fine-tooth comb to weed out traitors surrounding various Ministers'. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) Why has the Bailey Task Force allowed so little time for State governments and community organisations to prepare submissions to the Task Force inquiry. 
Does the Prime Minister agree that the Task Force's recommendations will be a most inaccurate means of determining the future delivery of health and welfare services in Australia, given the short time allowed for the inquiry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What are the details of each drug seizure in Queensland since 1 January 1976 to include (a) where the seizure was made, (b) the quantity of drugs seized, (c) the estimated commercial value ofthe drugs seized, (d) details of any convictions recorded as a result of the seizure and (e) the number of Federal and State officials involved in each operation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What quantity of marijuana has been seized by Federal narcotics agents, either acting alone or in conjuction with State police, in each State of Australia for each month since February 1974. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Is the Government currently examining a proposal to set up a national institute for the treatment of mental retardation. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Will all reports ofthe Bailey Task Force be tabled in Federal Parliament. If so, when. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
Has the Queensland Council of Social Service been forced to dismiss three of its four staff members because the Queensland Government has refused to provide the necessary funding assistance to allow the organisation to continue its activities. If so, can the Federal Government provide any additional assistance to enable the Council to carry out its normal functions. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. By way of preface I mention that the subject matter of my question touches on the responsibilities of at least 3 Ministers, namely, the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Education. lt may well be that  Senator Carrick,  as Minister for Education, could be in a better position to answer the question. If that is so. I should appreciate it if the question could be redirected to  Senator Carrick.  Have there been any approaches to the Government from Ugandan students currently in Australia asking for permission to remain in this country after their studies conclude because of the current political situation in their home land? If so, what has been the Government's decision? If not, but if any such approaches are made, will they be treated sympathetically by the Government? 
-I ask the Minister for Education whether it is a fact that some officers of the Department of Education will not accept statutory declarations, duly witnessed by a justice of the peace, from post-secondary students. Is it also a fact that when asked why a statutory declaration cannot be accepted from a student it is usual to state: 'You would be surprised at what some students will put on a statutory declaration form'? Will the Minister advise whether it is acceptable for a student who wishes to claim independent status under the tertiary education assistance scheme to supply information in relation to past earnings on a statutory declaration form? Finally, are there any situations in which it is normal for students or parents to provide information to the Department of Education by use of statutory declaration forms? 
Tonight I intend to speak on a matter which I have previously raised in the chamber. Nevertheless, I consider that the matter needs to be aired once more in Parliament. As I proceed it will be seen that coincidentally the subject on which I am about to speak is somewhat related to that mentioned by the previous  speaker, Senator Bonner.  In early February this year  Mr Donald  Cameron, the Liberal member for Griffith, made the claim that 'a group of Aborigines had formed a co-operative to steal pension and social security cheques from letter boxes'.  His  claim was made outside this Parliament. So that honourable senators can readily see that I am not taking  Mr Cameron's  statement out of context, I shall quote the whole of an article which appeared in the  Courier-Mail  on 9 February 1977. The article reads as follows: 
LETTER-BOX THEFT CLAIM 
A Federal Parliamentarian claimed last night a group of aborigines had formed a co-operative to steal pension and social security cheques from letter boxes. 
He said the group was moving into several Brisbane suburbs and using children to follow postmen and steal the cheques. 

 Mr Don Cameron, Liberal Member for Griffith, said cheques for thousands of dollars were being stolen each week. 
He said information about the group had been given to him by an 'extremely good source'. He said the group made their white criminal counterparts look like amateurs. 

 Mr Cameron warned business men that the Social Security Department would not take responsibility if they cashed stolen cheques. 
Reserve Bank cheques are not as safe as a bar of gold, as many people believe, ' he said. 
Quite naturally,  Mr Cameron's  claims drew a justifiably angry response from the Brisbane Aboriginal community. The day following the publication of  Mr Cameron's  statement the following article appeared in the  Courier-Mail: 
THEFTS DENIED 
The Liberal Member for Griffith  (Mr Don Cameron)  will be asked to support his allegations about aborigines stealing pension and social security cheques from Brisbane letter boxes. 
The demand will come from the Aboriginal and Islanders' Legal Service. 
About ISO aborigines from Brisbane areas attended a meeting yesterday to discuss  Mr  Cameron  's allegations. 

 Mr Cameron said on Tuesday that an organised group of aborigines was using children to follow postmen to steal Government cheques, which were then cashed. 
The group was stealing cheques for 'thousands of dollars' each week, he claimed. 

 Mr L. Cooper, a spokesman for the aborigines at yesterday's meeting said none of the aborigines believed  Mr Cameron's  claims. 

 Mr Cooper, of the Black Community Housing Service, asked how many aborigines had the identification needed to get a Government cheque cashed across the counter. 
That article appeared in the  Courier-Mail.  Some time later I received a letter on this matter from the Black Community Housing Service (Qld) Limited. The contents of the letter outlined the strong feeling of Aborigines in relation to  Mr Cameron's  allegation. I believe it is pertinent to read the letter for the information of honourable senators. The letter reads: 
Dear  Senator, 
With reference to your question to the Senate regarding Don Cameron's statement published in the  Courier Mail  on 9 February. 
The Brisbane Black Community views this as a tactic to create ill feeling towards blacks for two major reasons: 
to enlist the support of the white community in his campaign to have the Admissibility of Confessions Bill thrown out of parliament. 
to draw the public's attention away from bigger issues such as Petersen directing the Queensland Registrar of Titles office not to transfer the title of land recently purchased by the Commonwealth Government for the Arukan blacks, the forthcoming review of both Aborigines and Torres Strait Islander Acts, etc. etc. 
We have been trying to contact  Mr Cameron  re furnishing proof of his statement and to date he has proved most elusive. Here again we are being used as a political football and although statements like Don Cameron 's show how barbaric and irresponsible the Liberal and Country party politicians are, they more importantly discredit black people right across the board. 
Yours faithfully, Les Collins, Administrator. 
I believe there is sufficient bigotry, discrimination and prejudice in Australia without a member of this National Parliament going out of his way to make allegations which cast a slur on every member of a particular racial group. As far as I can ascertain,  Mr Cameron  had no evidence to support his wild claims that 'a group of Aborigines had formed a co-operative to steal pension and social security cheques from letter boxes'. Whether he had evidence or not, however, it was inexcusable of him to single out for abuse a particular group in the community.  His  actions would have been just as inexcusable if he had mentioned any other ethnic or racial group in Brisbane, the city to which he was referring. Nonetheless, his sweeping accusations are even more inexcusable when he cannot back up his claims. It was obvious from  Senator Guilfoyle  's replies to me on 16 February and 24 February that the Department of Social Security had no evidence which suggested that  Mr Cameron's  allegation had any substance. The allegation to which I refer, of course, is his claim that a group of Aborigines had formed a co-operative to steal pension and social security cheques from letterboxes. I do not doubt that some stealing from letterboxes has occurred and is occurring. What I have objected to and will continue to object to is  Mr Cameron's  attack on the Aboriginal community in Brisbane. 
I repeat what I said outside this chamber on 2 March:  Mr Cameron  should apologise to the Brisbane Aboriginal community. The publicity surrounding his trumped up charges has done a grave disservice to the Aboriginal people of Brisbane. Predictably,  Mr Cameron  did not apologise following my suggestion that he should do so. In the  Courier Mail of 3  March he was quoted as saying he had no intention of apologising. If  Mr Cameron  will not apologise for his allegations which have cast a slur upon a section of the Brisbane community the matter should not be allowed to rest. I am sure that the Commissioner for Community Relations would be interested in examining the accusations made by  Mr Cameron.  It is my hope, however, that the honourable member for Griffith will not make such a step necessary. A retraction and apology on his part will make it unnecessary to take the matter further. Nevertheless, it is worth noting that the Commissioner for Community Relations does view discrimination against Aborigines as a serious matter. In the Commissioner's opening remarks at chapter 12 of his first annual report he said: 
It is obvious from the work and experience of the Community Relations Office since its inception on that discriminaton against Aboriginal people forms the greatest volume of discrimination practised in the Australian community. 
Because of this a major emphasis has been given to pursuing the various discriminations and prejudices against Aboriginal Australians and continuing efforts are being maintained in close and effective co-operation with officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. This co-operation has been fundamental to efforts to tackle problems that have been endemic in Australia for 1 88 years. 
Later in his report the Commissioner for Community Relations stated: 
Most Australians have never met an Aboriginal man, woman or child; they only comprise 1 per cent of the population. There is, however, an easy assumption by the nonAboriginal Australian that he knows all about them. The dominant element of this so-called knowledge is contempt -an attitude that offers insult and builds a deep and boiling resentment, particularly among young, urban Aborigines, which is completely understandable and with which I sympathise. 
Therefore, it is my hope that  Mr Cameron  will reflect on what he has said outside the confines of Parliament and apologise to the Aboriginal community in Brisbane. If he does not do so the matter must be taken further.  Mr Cameron  's position as a member of the national Parliament does not give him licence to roam at large, disregarding the spirit of the Racial Discrimination Act. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
1 ) For each State and Territory what has been the total cost of the Ambulance Bad Debts Reimbursement Scheme. 
) For each State and Territory, what was this cost in each financial year since its inception. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Can the death of three Aboriginals at Kowanyama in Queensland last year be in any way attributed to shortages of the vaccine from the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, as was indicated by the Director of the Queensland Department of Aboriginal Islander Advancement,  Mr P.  J. Killoran, quoted in the Brisbane  Courier Mail  dated 22 February 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Has the National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Student Union sought funding or other assistance from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Has  Mr Reg  Worthy been transferred from the post of Regional Director of the Department in Queensland. If so, (a) why, (b) to what post has  Mr Worthy  been transferred and has the transfer been accompanied by any reduction in salary or entitlements, and (c) who has been appointed Regional Director in Queensland in  Mr Worthy's  stead. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
1 ) What are the details of the cut of some $6m in funds available for Aboriginal programs in the Northern Territory, referred to in an article in the  Courier-Mail  dated 10 February 1977. 
What effect is this cutback likely to have on the administration and effectiveness of the Aboriginal programs concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 25 February 1 977: 
1 ) Has the Commonwealth Government adopted any of the recommendations of the Kemp report relating to the water resources of the Burdekin River since the report was brought down in 1 952. If so, what are the details. 
What financial assistance has the Commonwealth provided to the Burdekin Water Resources Scheme. 
Does the present Government intend providing any financial assistance for the Burdekin Water Resources Scheme. 
asked  the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of Health since 1 July 1970. 
By branch, for each year from 1970 to 1976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged, in each branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
Has the Minister declined to allow a meeting of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee to take place. If so (a) why, and (b) does the Minister's refusal conflict with any undertaking given by the Minister or his officers last year that a meeting of the NACC would be convened when the review of the operation of the NACC had been completed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Has the Queensland Government refused to approve the transfer of a pastoral lease to the Aboriginal people of Aurukun, which had been arranged by the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission. If so (a) what reasons has the Queensland Government given for its veto and (b) what action is the Minister taking to persuade the Queensland Government to reverse its decision. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
Has the Queensland Government ever insisted that any request for discussions between Federal and State public servants on Aboriginal affairs matters be channelled through the Queensland Premier. If so, (a) what are the details, (b) does this restriction exist at present, and (c) has any other State Government applied a similar restriction. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
In the week following the 1 7.5 per cent devaluation, was the Australian dollar in fact devalued a further 0.5 per cent. If so (a) how did the further devaluation of the currency occur, (b) what effect did the further devaluation have on the subsequent decision to revalue by 2 per cent, and (c) why did the Government, when looking to reduce the sizeable capital inflow evident following the devaluation by 17.5 per cent, choose to revalue by 2 per cent rather than reactivate the variable deposit ratio. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) On which dates did the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry Commission visit and inspect the operations of D.M. Minerals on Fraser Island. 
At what stage had mining and rehabilitation reached on each visit referred to in ( 1 ). 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Has the Government been advised that unless there is co-operation from the States the Federal Government's federalism policy with respect to allowing individual States to impose income tax surcharges could become virtually unworkable? Does the Minister concur with this view? If so, what indication has he received concerning the views of individual States on the income tax surcharge proposals? 
In presenting the one hundred and sixty-second report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts,  Senator Baume  outlined that the final report which has been presented was agreed to unanimously by the members of the Committee. I do not think he mentioned that the statement which he has just presented was also agreed to unanimously by the Committee. I think it is important that that fact should be noted. In view of the fact that the report and the statement have been agreed to unanimously, there should not be many remarks for me to make at this stage as a member of the Committee. However, I would like to make a few points at this stage. It was suggested that a number of problems faced this Committee. One of the problems concerned the fact that 3 differently constituted committees were charged with the task of investigating this affair. In fact, only one member of those Committees followed the whole of the proceedings right through. I was one of a number of members on this last constituted Committee who did not have the opportunity to hear any oral evidence with regard to the whole of the investigation. The only evidence available to those of us who were on the last constituted Committee was by way of transcript. This in itself provided some problems for those people who had the responsibility of preparing the report and agreeing to the parts that have now been incorporated in it. I think it is important that these aspects be looked at when the report is being considered. At this stage I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Motion (by  Senator Baume)  proposed: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day Tor the next day of sitting. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
Ho w many offices of the Department of Social Security in each State and Territory have offices on other than the ground floor. 
For each State and Territory (a) in what cities are those offices located, (b) which of these offices have access by (i) lift only, (ii) stairs only and (iii) lift and stairs, and (c) what moves are being made to obtain alternative accommodation where offices are not on ground floor premises and have access by stairs only. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Has the Malaysian student leader Hishamuddin Rais applied for political asylum in Australia. If so, (a) what are the details (b) what decision has the Australian Government reached, and (c) what were the Australian Government's reasons for reaching the decision it did. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) What funding has the Commonwealth Government provided for sewerage works in each local government area in Queensland in each year since 1 970. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
What funding has the Commonwealth Government provided for sewerage works in each Queensland city since 1970. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does the Government plan to initiate action to have provincial cities included in the last of cities which determine the consumer price index. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to part 3 of Question No. 1552 (Senate  Hansard,  22 February 1977, page 274) concerning the Fitzroy Region Service Needs Assessment Study, what other studies, similar to that conducted in the Fitzroy region, have been undertaken. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
Are women, who are in receipt of family assistance allowance from the Queensland Department of Children's Services, eligible for any benefit from the Department of Social Security. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Has the Queensland Government presented a formal submission seeking Federal assistance for areas of north Queensland affected by Cyclone Ted. If so, (a) what are the details of the submission, and (b) when does the Federal Government expect to be able to reply to the Queensland Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Has Australia refused to donate funds to the World Health Organisation research program on tropical diseases. If so, why? 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
With respect to statements made in recent months by Ministers of the Queensland Government that Queensland is desperately in need of Federal funds, has the Prime Minister been able to determine how the Queensland Government was able to announce on 1 1 February 1977 that it would be spending $35, 100,000 on labor-intensive public works projects. If so, what details can the Minister provide as to the source of the funds concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Did the former Prime Minister write to the Premier of Queensland on 5 June 1974 proposing that the Commonwealth Government, in conjunction with the Queensland Government, undertake an examination of the ways and means of increasing efficiency and reducing costs within the power system with a view to lowering the price of electrical energy in Queensland. If so, (a) what was the full text of that letter, and (b) what action has been taken on this matter since the despatch of the letter concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of Primary Industry since 1 July 1970. 
By branch, for each year from 1970 to 1976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged, in each branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
What influenza strains are likely to be present in Australia in the coming winter months. 
Are sufficient quantities of vaccine available to immunise Australians against any of the influenza strains concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) How was  Mr Vincent  Teresa able to enter Australia undetected. 
Are any inquiries being conducted into  Mr Teresa's  activities whilst he was in Australia. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
How many ministerial staff have (a) resigned, (b) had their appointments terminated, or (c) as permanent public servants, returned to their departments, since 1 1 November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
When does the Minister expect to be able to announce details of the Government's proposals for a National Rural Bank. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
What is the estimated work force in each employment district in Australia at the present time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Has electronic surveillance equipment been found in the Canberra offices of the Department of Defence. If so, (a) what are the details, and (b) what action, if any, has the Minister taken as a result of the discovery of the equipment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
What action is the Department of Health taking to ensure that typhoid is not introduced into Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
What was the total staff establishment of each Commonwealth Employment Office in Queensland in each month since November 1972. 
-I ask the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs whether he is aware that the Queensland Premier yesterday declared strong opposition to the second stage of the new federalism policy providing for State income taxes, saying: 
Queensland does not want to go into State income tax at any stage'. How many other States are similarly opposed to the policy? Is it now likely that the entire Liberal new federalism policy will founder? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
With reference to part (b) ofthe Minister's reply to Question No. 1316 (Senate  Hansard,  9 December 1976), when is it likely that investigations as to whether the Government will undertake a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis of Medibank will be completed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
With reference to the answer to House of Representatives Question No. 1214, which Australian Broadcasting Commission station does each ofthe commercial stations listed in the answer to Question No. 1214 tune in to in order to receive and relay Australian Broadcasting Commission news broadcasts. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 8 March 1 977: 
Does the Minister accept that a $14m sand mining project at Agnes Waters has been deferred by Mineral Deposits Ltd because of the Federal Government's 'confused environmental policies' as was claimed by the Premier of Queensland and reported in the  Courier-Mail  of 3 February 1977. If not, what factors docs the Minister and his Department consider contributed to the deferral of the project. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
With relation to urban and regional affairs programs, has Queensland been disadvantaged by lack of Commonwealth funding in comparison with other States, as was claimed by the Queensland Minister for Lands, Forestry, National Parks and Wildlife Service in the Queensland Parliament on 26 October 1976. If so, (a) what are the details; (b) to what extent is the Queensland Government responsible for the current situation; and (c) is it correct that 'overtures are still being made to the Commonwealth with a view to having the position rectified ', as the Queensland Minister stated on 26 October. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
With relation to Senate Question No. 1 183, and the two letters which were mentioned in the answer to that question, what advice was given to the Premier of Queensland following his request for funds on 17 February 1976 and following his subsequent letter on 11 March 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
What are the estimates of the costs involved in providing statehood for the Northern Territory. 
On 30 March last year I spoke during the adjournment debate about the use of the word  'bludger'.  I made a plea to Press representatives to see whether they could use a different word when referring to recipients of social service benefits. I acknowledged then that my plea to the media would be a vain one. Indeed, it has been. Too often we still read and hear the term dole bludger'. Tonight, one year and one day later, I repeat my plea to the media not to use this word  'bludger'  in the context of social welfare. The word has too many unsavoury connotations which cast a slur upon all persons who arc obliged to depend on social service benefits at a time of need. 
With today's enlightened media 1 should not have to refer Press representatives to a dictionary meaning of the word. Nevertheless, let me assist just a little because many dictionaries do not list the word  bludger'.  I no longer remember the dictionary from which I took the definition ofthe word 'bludge' last year, but it was as follows: 
Bludge.  I. To loaf, to impose (on someone). 2. A minor racket. 3. A period of loafing or dodging responsibility. 4. Whence, bludger ( sometimes a man living on immoral earnings of women). 
The Australian Pocket Oxford Dictionary gives the following  definition  bludge. I. Shirk responsibility or hard work, scrounge, impose on. 2. easy job or assignment, period of loafing, bludger. Parasite, hanger on. loafer, idler. English slang: Pimp, prostitute "s bully. 
I am sure that when the word 'bludger' is used in the media those meanings are not the meanings the media intends to convey in relation to the people about whom they are speaking. 
Similarly, I should prefer to see the media not use the word 'dole', although I am sure that with this plea I shall have even less success than I had with my plea in respect of the word 'bludger'. The word 'dole' has unsavoury connotations which reflect on persons who are receiving benefits. I took the opportunity of consulting the Concise Oxford Dictionary, which lists the meaning of 'dole ' as follows:  dole. I. (archaic) lol. destiny. 2. Charitable distribution, charitable (especially sparing, niggardly), gilt of food, clothes, or money. The dole ( colloquial ). relief claimable by the unemployed. 
It seems to me that the word 'dole' should not be used when referring to unemployment benefits. We see it too often. It appeared in today's  Australian  under the heading: 'Your Government Gets Tough With Dole Scheme'. On page 3 of the  Courier-Mail,  a newspaper from the State which I represent, appears the headline: Government to Review Dole System'. I say to media representatives: Please use the rich English language which we have at our disposal. Let us not use cheap words which carry offensive overtones. Again, I realise that I am probably making a vain plea but, always full of optimism, I hope that perhaps my call will not fall on totally deaf ears. 
I speak tonight also on a matter which I regard as serious indeed. I am rather sorry that somehow the arrangements I made have fallen down. I expected the Minister for Veterans' Affairs,  Senator Durack,  to have been informed that I was going to speak - 
Fine. I expected to see  Senator Durack  here, but I presume that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  will look after my comments admirably. This afternoon my attention was drawn to an article appearing in the  Redcliffe Herald,  a newspaper which is published in Redcliffe near Brisbane. 
-Not the  Border Watch;  it is the  Redcliffe Herald.  The richness of the English language was not employed in the composition of this article; instead quite shady journalism was employed. I find it difficult to read parts of the article because of its unsavoury approach, but it is important that it be read to the Senate and I shall do so. On page 1 of the  Redcliffe Herald  dated Wednesday, 30 March, under the heading 'Dole bludgers are no mythloath to work', the following is stated: 
The peninsula has its share of dole bludgers and they ure married men with children. 
They include a man with two children, who has hud seven job refusals from the Commonwealth Employment Service since mid January and another with three children who has had nine. 
They did not show up for several of the interviews and at others were so obviously loath to take on the jobs they were passed over for more suitable applicants. 
The man with two children lives in a caravan and collects $87.50 unemployment relief weekly plus child endowment. 
The one with three children owns his own home and collects $ 104 per week plus endowment-all tax free. 
Failing to attend several job interviews results in nullification from the Department of Social Security to "show cause' why unemployment benefits should not be withdrawn. 
Payments are suspended when recipients cannot justify their failure to attend such an interview. 
But under existing legislation this is little deterrent-they can apply for reinstatement of the benefit almost immediately. 
Under the heading 'Have Job' the following appears: 
Continuing to receive unemployment benefits after taking a job is another practice which is rife. 
The Commonwealth Employment Service at Redcliffe processes at least one of these daily. 
One of the most blatant they have handled in recent times was the case of a married man with five children who was receiving $ 109 plus endowment weekly and earning up to $40 a duy working privately. 
Another found working in u factory in Brisbane WaS earning more than $200 a week. He had received more than $2,000 in unemployment relief to which he was not entitled. 
Current bright spot in the peninsula's employment position ure the successes of the Commonwealth Youth Support Scheme and the steady rise in job vacancies. 
Under the heading ' Future ' the article states: 

 Mr J. Neil, the officer in charge, said last week that joh vacancies in February had definitely shown an upward trend. 
He said that the number had steadied since the National Wage case had commenced. In the short-term future employment prospects could depend on the outcome of the wage case 
Indications were that small businesses would defer uppointing stuff us long as possible if full indexation was granted. 

 Mr Neil paid tribute to the young people taking part in the Redcliffe Community Youth Support Scheme. 
He said thai their standard of dress and behaviour was un example the rest of the community could well follow. 
There hud been un uptrend in the number of vacancies available for school leavers and at the moment several were being placed in employment daily, said  Mr Neil. 
I should like to point out that there could be some slight errors in the article I have just quoted. If there are any errors I expect that they are only slight. If any have crept in, it is because 1  took down the contents of the article as it was dictated to me on the telephone today. I have not yet seen the actual article but I expect that I will do so tomorrow. I should also say, because of the comments I will make shortly, that I tried in vain from about 5.15 this afternoon until about 10 o'clock this evening to contact the editor of the  Redcliffe Herald  to ask him about certain aspects of the article and to inform him that I would be speaking on it tonight. I was not able to contact the editor. 
There are numerous errors of fact in this article and many aspects of it which are deliberately misleading. For instance, the article states that the man with 2 children lives in a caravan and collects $87.50 unemployment relief weekly, plus child endowment. I presume that the child endowment, or family allowance as it is now called, is paid to his wife and not to him. The article also states that the man with 3 children owns his own home and collects $104 a week plus endowment, all tax free. 
-I will come back to that in a moment and mention why 1 think the man does have a wife. As I was saying, the man with 3 children is stated to own his own home and to collect $104 a week, plus endowment, all tax free. That is not quite correct, because unemployment benefit now is not tax free. Finally, the article mentions a procedure which follows if a person is suspected of not attending job interviews. It states that he has to show cause why his unemployment benefits should not be withdrawn. That is not the procedure which is followed. There are other errors in the article, but let me not dwell on them. I would rather look at the more serious nature of this article. In a quite authoritative manner the newspaper tells the world about dole bludgers- not alleged dole bludgers but one who it says is on the peninsula and one whom it describes in detail. Let me say that I do not accept its statements, but many readers would accept them as truth. 1 wish to refer to some aspects of this article which are serious indeed. I believe that there has been some leak from the Commonwealth Employment Service in Redcliffe and, if that is so, it is a very serious matter. The article states first of all that the alleged dole bludgers include a man with 2 children who has refused 7 job offers from the Commonwealth Employment Service since mid-January and another man with 3 children who has refused 9 job offers. Where did the  Redcliffe Herald  get that information? Did someone from the CES leak it or give it to the 

 Redcliffe Herald! If it was leaked or given to the  Redcliffe Herald,  it is a serious matter indeed. The article mentions the man who lives in a caravan and collects $87.50 unemployment relief, plus child endowment. The Minister for Administative Services  (Senator Withers)  said that he could be a widower. I believe that he is not a widower because I think I know the person about whom the  Redcliffe Herald  is talking. If it is the same person, he no longer lives in a caravan and he no longer collects $87.50 unemployment benefit- the  Redcliffe Herald  calls it relief. He had this benefit terminated. He has lodged an appeal, and I hope that appeal will be successful. Having had his benefit terminated, he had to sell his caravan to obtain some money to keep living. Again, a specific example is quoted by the newspaper and it seems inevitable that it was given to the newspaper by someone connected with the CES. 
The article also states that the Commonwealth Employment Service at Redcliffe processes at least one case daily relating to people who have received the unemployment benefit since taking a job. It goes on to talk about a person who is receiving $109 plus endowment and earning up to $40 a day working privately, again, where did the  Redcliffe Herald  get that information about a specific case? Who gave the information to the newspaper? The article goes on to talk about a person who is allegedly working in Brisbane and had received more than $2,000 in unemployment relief to which he was not entitled. I have made it clear in this place before that I will not defend people who take benefits, whether they be unemployment benefits or any other social security benefits, if they are not entitled to them. I think we have all had instances of people coming to see us who have claimed that they have been taken off a benefit wrongly and when we have investigated we have found that they should not have been receiving the benefit. But those are just a small percentage of the cases that are referred to us. 
The aspect of this article to which I do object is that it appears that someone has been giving information to the  Redcliffe Herald  which really should be confidential. I have heard many a disturbing rumour about the Redcliffe office of the Commonwealth Employment Service. At this stage I do not intend to relate the tales that surround the Redcliffe CES, but I am beginning to believe the people who say that they do not get a fair go when they go to that office. Did  Mr Neill,  who is mentioned in this article, give this information about clients to the  Redcliffe Herald!  If he did, he had no moral right to do so. As far as I am aware, he had no legal right to do it either. Perhaps it was not  Mr Neill,  but the evidence points strongly to a massive leak at the Redcliffe CES. Apparently the newspaper got its information from somewhere because one case referred to is too close to one that I know of personally to be a coincidence. I think that the other cases have probably been taken from actual cases which have gone through Redcliffe. 
Apparently the Minister was not listening. 
I think it is important that I answer the Minister. I said that I had knowledge of one particular case. I have that knowledge because the person came to me for help when his benefit was taken away. I mentioned earlier that he had lodged an appeal with the Social Security Appeals Tribunal, and I hope that the appeal will be successful. I have personal knowledge of the case because the person came to me for help. It looks as though someone in the Redcliffe CES is spreading tales about clients. Does that mean that confidentiality means nothing once one walks through the door of the office of the CES at Redcliffe? Due to the lateness of the hour I shall not make any further comments on this serious matter. Nevertheless, I expect the Minister to carry out an immediate and thorough investigation into the circumstances surrounding this scurrilous article. I expect to hear the result of the investigation very soon. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) What holiday resorts are provided Tor Australian Defence personnel throughout Australia and overseas. 
Were these resorts built or purchased and what was the date of these resorts. 
If there have been changes in the number of accommodation units at any of the resorts since purchase or building, what are the details. 
What was the average number of units which were occupied at each resort for each month since the date of purchase or building. 
(a) For each financial year for each resort since date of purchase or building what has been the Army's financial commitment by way of: 
capital, (including cost of purchase or building): and 
non-capital funds; and 
what percentage of this commitment was recovered by rents for each financial year for each resort since date of purchase or building. 
Who is entitled to book accommodation at these resorts and who is entitled to accompany the person who books the accommodation. 
What is the current cost of accommodation at each resort. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
How many appeals relating to (a) unemployment benefit, (b) sickness benefit, (c) age pension, (d) invalid pension, (e) supporting mothers' benefit, (f) special benefit. (g) family allowance, (h) orphan's pension, (i) widow's pension, (j) domiciliary nursing care benefit, (k) nursing home benefit, (l ) handicapped child 's allowance, ( m ) maternity allowance and (n) student allowance were dealt with in each State by Social Security Appeals Tribunals in the December quarter of 1976. 
What are the detailed results of the appeals in question corresponding to the headings provided in the Minister's answer to Senate Question No. 130, vide Senate  Hansard.  4 May 1976, page 1515. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Is the Minister currently seeking a new person for his personal staff. If so, what was the reason for the departure of the former incumbent of the position concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What action has the Australian Government taken to ascertain the whereabouts and safety of the former Cambodian Chief of State, Prince Norodom Sihanouk? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of Education since 1 July 1970. 
By branch, for each year from 1970 to 1976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged in each branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of Social Security since 1 July 1970. 
2 ) By branch, for each year from 1 970 to 1 976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977 what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged in each branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of Science since 1 July 1970. 
By branch, for each year from 1970 to 1976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the totalnumber of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged in each branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 8 March 1 977: 
1 ) What financial assistance has the Federal Government provided for the Wivenhoe dam project in Queensland. 
Has the Queensland Government sought financial assistance for the project from the Federal Government in the past 12 months. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport the following question, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Is the Federal Government currently undertaking a study, in conjunction with the Government of New South Wales, to determine a strategy to accommodate the future air transport needs of Sydney. If so, when is it planned to conduct a similar investigation of the future air transport needs of Brisbane, with particular respect to the requirements for the proposed 1982 Commonwealth Games to be held in Brisbane. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the statement by the Director of the Queensland Council of Social Service.  Mr Denis  Guilfoyle, reported in the  Courier Mail  dated 3 
February 1977, that the Queensland Government is Queensland's biggest social problem, and that the Queensland Government is withholding funds provided to it by the Federal Government for badly needed welfare work. If so, (a) what welfare funds are being withheld by the Queensland Government and (b) what action is the Federal Government taking as a result of the withholding of funds by the Queensland Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 10 March 1977. 
When will the Office of Youth Affairs commence operation. 
What is the anticipated Budget allocation for the Office (a) for the remainder of 1976-77, and (b) for 1977-78. 
What is the proposed staffing establishment for the Office of Youth Affairs for each State and Territory. 
What are the details, including the method of determination of salary and entitlements of the proposed engagement of staff from outside the Public Service on a short-term basis. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 March 1 977: 
Is a farmer, who is subject to a privileged valuation under the Queensland Valuation of Land Acts, eligible for unemployment benefit. If so, (a) what are the details, and (b) does a similar situation apply in other States. 
asked the Minister for 
Administrative Services, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
Is the Minister aware that  Mr Don  Lane, M.L.A., a member of the Queensland Parliament and former officer of the Queensland Police Force, in giving evidence on 24 January 1977, to the Criminal Law Inquiry in Queensland, stated that 'verballing', or the giving of false evidence to secure convictions, was practised to some extent by all Australian police forces, including the Commonwealth Police Force. If so, to what extent is 'verballing' practised within the Commonwealth Police Force. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
With respect to part (b) of the Treasurer's reply to Senate Question No. 1275 relating to funds for sewerage works in Queensland, has the Queensland Government made a formal submission requesting additional funds for sewerage works. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Is the Public Service Board actively discouraging publicservants from retiring, as was claimed in an article in  The Australian  dated 21 January 1977. If so, (a) what are the details, and (b) what is the full text of the letter written by the Board to all Federal departments requesting personnel officers and supervisors to have confidential interviews with those Public Service employees seeking to resign. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) How many offices of the Department of Social Security in each State and Territory do not have facilities for conducting confidential interviews. 
) Where are these offices located in each State and Territory, and for each office what plans are being made to provide these facilities. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
What training is provided to counter staff in offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
The Senate is debating 2 Bills cognately the Tertiary Education Commission Bill 1977 and the Commonwealth Teaching Service Amendment Bill 1977. I shall confine my remarks to the former of these 2 Bills. Before commencing my principal comments I would like to make some remarks on 2 aspects that have been mentioned by previous speakers. I am tempted to use a phrase used by  Senator Martin  -'selective truth'- because two of the previous speakers have peddled the well worn and misleading argument that the Labor Government cut $105m off education spending in the 1975 Budget. Let me explain what actually occurred in 1975 and what has been the Government's strategy since then. When the education commissions brought forward their estimates of requirements in 1975 the Labor Government was forced to say that the requests from the commissions could not be fully granted. That was following the rapid expansion of funds that had been provided for education by the Labor Government since it came to power in 1 972. There were no actual cuts in expenditure. In fact, there was an increase in real terms for education in the 1975 Budget. The cuts that are spoken of were not cuts as such. They were the short-fall between what the education commissions recommended and what the Government decided could be provided for education that year. 
What this Government has done has been to tell the commissions what amounts will be made available. The commissions have to tailor their plans accordingly. With this approach the Government will never be placed in a situation which the Labor Government faced in 1975, because the commissions will not be able to provide plans which request a certain amount of funds to be expended, with the Government saying: 'No, that cannot be provided at this stage'. What has happened is that the commissions have been told what amounts will be available. If one looks at the comments made by the commissions one can see that they are by no means enthralled by the approach of the present Government. If Government members intend to continue to use this argument, which I believe is a spurious argument, they should tell the full story. Even better, I suggest that they use their research expertise to find out what the commissions would really like by way of funds and what the Government is actually providing by way of funds. Then they can boast about the sort of cut which they have made to education. 

 Senator Martin said that the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt,  would be defeated by the Government using its numbers. For the people who are listening to this debate, let me quote what the amendment states. It states: 
At the end of motion, add ' but the Senate is of the opinion that in respect of the Tertiary Education Commission Bill 1977- 
1 ) the Senate recognises the disadvantaged position or technical education in Australia and that adequate financial resources will be made available to the technical sector to raise its standards to levels envisaged in the Kangan Report; 
further measures be taken to ensure that technical education in Australia is not further isolated from secondary education; and 
every effort be made to ensure full provision for the development of further education '. 
If the Government votes against that amendment and defeats it, what does it mean? Does it mean that the Government does not recognise the disadvantaged position of technical education in Australia? It must certainly mean that. Does it mean that the Government does not recognise that adequate financial measures should be made available to the technical sector to raise its standards? It seems very strange to me that this amendment faces defeat because the Government does not believe that the amendment has the credence that it definitely has. Let me return to my principal remarks about the Tertiary Education Commission Bill. I believe that with a Bill of this nature it is pertinent to examine certain aspects in relation to the current education commissions. At the Federal level at present there are 4 education commissions. There will not be, of course, once this legislation is passed. I shall look at some of the origins and at some of the developments of these 4 commissions so that we can place this Bill which is now before us in a proper context. We shall see how it fits into the development of education. We shall look at the Commonwealth involvement in education and how, since the Commonwealth has become increasingly involved in education, this has been a further development. 
The Australian Universities Commission was established under the Australian Universities Commission Act of 1959 following acceptance by the Commonwealth Government of the recommendations made by the Murray Committee that the Australian Universities Grants Committee be established. During 1974 the Commission's name was shortened to the Universities Commission and the title of the Act was changed to the Universities Commission Act. The functions of the Universities Commission are broadly to advise the Commonwealth on the needs of universities; to recommend to the Commonwealth the extent and level of grants to the States for universities and for financial assistance to universities established by the Commonwealth; to study the problems and needs of universities and to advise on any special university matters brought before it; and, finally, to promote the balanced development of universities so that their resources can be used to the greatest possible advantage to Australia. Universities are autonomous bodies. They are responsible for the conduct of their own affairs. The Universities Commission thus does not in any sense administer the universities. 
In accordance with established policy on the funding of universities, the Universities Commission, in recommending recurrent funds by way of block grants, avoids detailed involvement in university policy and expenditure. In promoting balanced development of universities, the Universities Commission is obliged to consider the possible effects of development of new activities in the universities and the financial implications of such new developments. For instance in Queensland, which is the State I represent, the Universities Commission had to look at the possible development of new medical facilities. This is just one example. After proper investigation the Universities Commission decided that not only should there be the current medical school at the University of Queensland but also that a medical school should be set up at the James Cook University. The Griffith University in Queensland was interested in setting up a medical school but the Universities Commission, after proper consideration, said that that should not proceed but that a new school should be established at the James Cook University. Unfortunately, the plans for James Cook University are in limbo at the moment but I imagine and hope that they will proceed in future years. 
It will be well remembered that the Australian Labor Party in 1 972 promised to abolish tuition fees at universities and colleges of advanced education. When this occurred and with the Commonwealth's assumption of full financial responsibility for universities from 1 January 1974, the Universities Commission became responsible for the flow of virtually all funds to the universities. As a result of conditions attached to grants under the States Grants (Universities) Act the Commission has acquired responsibility for the approval of certain university expenditures, particularly university building programs. 
I mention now a second commission which currently exists but which will not exist after the passage of this legislation. That is the Commission on Advanced Education. This Commission was established by the Australian Commission on Advanced Education Act of 1971. Similar to the Australian Universities Commission, in 1974 the title of this Commission was changed to the Commission on Advanced Education. The Commission's predecessor was the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Advanced Education which was established as a result of the recommendations made by the 1964 Martin report on tertiary education. The functions of the Commission on Advanced Education are to furnish information and advice to the Minister on matters relating to Commonwealth Government financial assistance to advanced education institutions in the States and Territories. The Commission's advice to the Government must include the necessity for and conditions upon which financial assistance should be given and the amount and allocation of such assistance. Broadly, the Commission on Advanced Education is to perform its functions with a view to promoting the balanced development of advanced education provisions so that the institutional resources can be used to the greatest possible advantage of Australia. To this end the Commission is required to consult with institutions providing advanced education, with the Universities Commission and with the States. It may consult with such other persons, institutions or bodies as it thinks proper. 
The role of the Commission on Advanced Education is in some ways different from that of the Universities Commission. Although funds are provided by the Commonwealth Government, the Commission recognises that colleges, like universities, are or should be autonomous and should have their own governing bodies. It thus attempts to limit direction of individual college expenditure to stating the main broad objectives which its financial recommendations are intended to achieve. Nevertheless, in addition to its advisory role, the Commission has certain executive powers in the area of course approvals and the distribution of funds for approved capital projects within a State. Broadly, the Universities Commission does not have the same power over course approvals. It recommends money for institutions rather than courses. . 
I turn now to the third commission. After my comments with regard to the first 2 commissions it is perhaps somewhat pleasing to say that this commission will remain after the passage of the legislation which we are currently debating. Nevertheless, I consider it is necessary to make some brief remarks about the Schools Commission. The Schools Commission was established by the Australian Labor Government as a statutory body. Legislation for this Commission was assented to in December 1973. The Commission was preceded by the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission, chaired by Professor Karmel. In general, the functions of the Schools Commission are to recommend to the Minister for Education what Australian Government funds should be made available to schools and school systems throughout the country in order to ensure acceptable standards and also to inquire into and report on any aspect of primary or secondary schooling. I shall mention briefly at a later stage some further aspects with regard to the Schools Commission. 
I mention finally the fourth commission which currently exists. Like the first 2 commissions, this commission will no longer be in existence after the passage of this legislation. When I say that these commissions will no longer be in existence one must remember that there will be councils in their place. I refer, of course, to the Technical and Further Education Commission. This Commission was established during the term of the Labor Government. The Act establishing this Commission received assent in May 1975. The broad functions of the Technical and Further Education Commission are to inquire into and furnish information and advice to the Minister with respect to the general development of technical and further education in Australia; the needs and desirable standards for buildings, equipment, teaching and other staff and other facilities, including student residences- to which a previous  speaker  has referred- the respective priorities for satisfying needs, and the means of attaining and maintaining standards; matters in connection with the grant and the conditions, if any, of financial assistance to the States, and the amount and allocation of such financial assistance. 
Each of the 4 commissions which I have so far mentioned is required to furnish reports to the 
Minister as the Minister requires and may furnish such other reports as it sees fit. It is important that we realise that each may furnish other reports as it sees fit because remarks along these lines will be made in the Committee stages of this Bill. It is worth noting that legislation to give effect to the Labor Government's decision to amalgamate the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education was introduced in the Parliament on 22 October 1975. In other words, there have been previous moves to amalgamate two of these commissionsthe Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education. That Bill, which was termed the Tertiary Education Commission Bill 1975, lapsed when Parliament was abruptly dissolved on 1 1 November 1975. 
Because of comments I wish to make later I consider it also worthwhile to look at the background of the establishment of the 4 commissions. In brief, the Commonwealth's principal involvement in education began with financial assistance to students during and after World War II and this role has expanded to encompass other aspects and levels of education. The Commonwealth Government assumed control of income taxation in 1943 and gained powers to cover 'benefits to students' as a result of an amendment to the Constitution in 1946, one of the few proposals to amend the Constitution which have been accepted. A financial assistance scheme to assist universities following the gaining of these powers led to accommodation problems at universities and, after an examination by a committee chaired by Professor Mills, Commonwealth financial grants were made to universities in 195 1. However, the continuing strain placed on available staff, buildings and residential resources eventually prompted the Federal Government to set up the Murray Committee in 1956. The acceptance of its recommendations resulted in Commonwealth assistance on a much wider scale and the establishment of the Australian Universities Commission in 1959. Following that, as a result of election promises made during the 1960s, the Federal Government's involvement in education increased. Aid was given to independent school pupils, to secondary school science laboratories and libraries, to technical education and to teacher training institutions. As one who was working in the education sphere at the time I gained the impression, as did many of my then colleagues, that a lot of the increasing involvement of the Federal Government was very much on a politically  ad hoc  basis. Nevertheless in the 1960s we did see an increasing involvement in education by the Federal Government. 
In 1969 the Labor Party gave an undertaking to establish a Schools Commission and during the 1972 election campaign  Mr Whitlam  made a statement which I consider to be worthwhile quoting. He said: 
The Australian Labor Party believes that the Commonwealth should adopt the same methods to assist schools as it adopted to assist universities and colleges of advanced education- through a commission. We will establish an Australian Schools' Commission to examine and determine the needs of students in Government and non-government primary, secondary and technical schools. I propose to prepare for the statutory Schools' Commission as  Sir Robert  Menzies prepared for the Universities Commission. In December 1956 he wrote to  Sir Keith  Murray and some other leading educationists to advise him on the immediate needs of universities and their future requirements. They reported to  Sir Robert  within 9 months. 
Following the 1972 election the Labor Government followed this procedure and the Interim Committee was set up followed later by the Schools Commission. The establishment of commissions in the Australian context of education enables the Government of the day to be provided with specialist advice which otherwise might not be available. For instance there has been the provision of specialist reports on particular subjects such as teaching hospitals and medical education. I mentioned earlier how the Universities Commission looked at the provision of further medical education facilities not only in the State that I represent but also in all other States by commissioning a study and bringing forth a special report on medical education. There have been reports on open universities, language education and management education, and these reports have been a notable feature of the operation of the Commission in addition to its more usual function of furnishing advice on general funding programs. 
By and large the concept of commissions as sources of specialist advice in fields of education has had general acceptance in Australia, although I remember that there was some debate at the political level over their applicability to the schools sector. I think that any major source of apprehension in that area no longer exists. Such commissions placed education in a relatively favoured position  vis a vis  other sectors of public activity. Each placed before the Government its assessment of needs which was made public and it was up to the Government of the day to accept or to reject publicly these recommendations. This was the case until the new guidelines were set by this Government. It is well worth remembering this because other areas of Government activity may not receive this expert assessment and thus may be less favoured than education. I believe that educationists have no reason to apologise for this situation but that they must keep it in mind. 
As I mentioned earlier, the 3 post secondary commissions will no longer exist with the passing of the Tertiary Education Commission Bill. There will be the 3 councils, the Universities Council, the Advanced Education Council and the Technical and Further Education Council. In many respects I look forward to the concept of a higher planning body to co-ordinate these 3 councils which will take the place of the currently existing 3 post-secondary commissions. I and many others have seen in universities and colleges of advanced education duplication of effort where it is not necessary and duplication of courses where such duplication is not necessary. One may look in a cursory way at certain institutions and see that institutions situated close to one another have courses of a similar nature. That does not necessarily mean that those courses should not be duplicated in those 2 institutions. But I do think that there is much duplication where duplication is not necessary. I have seen undue competition amongst various postsecondary institutions. Whilst I am sure that some competition is worthwhile and probably is good in the educational sphere, as it is in many other aspects of life, undue competition which takes away too much of the scarce resources that are available to education probably needs to be examined carefully. 
It must be remembered- I think that quite often it is not remembered- that resources which can be channelled into any activity including education throughout Australia, are limited. Because such resources are limited it is necessary that these resources are wisely and efficiently used. I hope that this will happen with all of our educational institutions in Australia. Let us not be so inflexible that we cannot provide institutions close by one another if necessary or in isolated areas or regional areas if necessary, and institutions which provide a variety of courses. But let us have a close look at them to make sure that the funds that we have available are used in the best possible way. If the Tertiary Education Commission can fulfil this role in making sure that we use our resources wisely it will be very worthwhile. Although the Opposition wishes to raise some matters in the Committee stage, generally it accepts the introduction of the Tertiary Education Commission Bill and gives it its support. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
What fees are currently payable to each of the agencies of the Commonwealth Employment Service which were listed in answer to Question No. 1476. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Has the Government deferred funding for the planned national agency to collect information on the effects of drugs on unborn children. If so, (a) why, and (b) when does the Minister expect that funds will become available for this purpose. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
When does the Minister expect to be able to announce the name of the  Chairman  of the Meat and Livestock Corporation and the role and responsibilities of the Corporation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
With reference to the Minister's reply to Question No. 1477 concerning the upgrading of Proserpine Airport, can the Minister advise (a) what are the details of the financial assistance requested from the Commonwealth Government by Ansett Airlines of Australia, (b) what financial assistance has the Commonwealth Government decided to provide, (c) what are the details of terminal facilities improvements proposed for Proserpine Airport, (d) what is the estimated cost of the proposed improvements to terminal facilities, and (e) will the Commonwealth Government or Ansett Airlines of Australia be meeting the cost of proposed improvements to terminal facilities. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
When does the Minister expect to be able to announce details of future funding under the Minor Traffic Engineering and Road Safety Improvements Programme (MITERS), given that the current MITERS program expires on 30 June 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Is the Prime Minister giving serious consideration to the proposal by the Australian Council of Trade Unions that a social welfare planning ministry be established in Australia. If so, when is it likely that a decision will be reached. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) How is the number of additional days recreation leave for prescribed isolated districts in Queensland determined for staff employed by the Postal Commission and by Telecom Australia. 
Why are there marked differences in the number of additional days recreation leave in towns in relatively close proximity, for example, 5 days per year for Port Douglas, 4 days per year for Cairns and 2 days for Mareeba. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Why have staff employed by the Postal Commission and Telecom Australia in the following towns recently had a reduction in the number of additional days allocated to them as recreation leave for being stationed in a prescribed isolated district, (a) Ayr, (b) Boulia, (c) Bowen, (d) Cairns, (e) Roma, (f) St George, (g) Townsville, and (h) Windorah. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Is it official policy of Telecom Australia and Australia Post that minors under the age of 1 8 years are not to be employed as temporary line staff. If so, why? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Has Japan offered to reduce its shipyard production, raise export prices on ships, and limit the number of orders taken from European nations, at the request of European shipbuilders who are facing grave difficulties. If so, what effect will this decision have on the present Australian Government's decision to place orders for two vessels for the Australian National Line with Japanese shipbuilders. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
What action is the Minister's Department taking to stimulate productivity in Australian industry? 
What liaison does the Minister's Department have with the Departments of (a) Business and Consumer Affairs, (b) Industry and Commerce and (c) Employment and Industrial Relations, in its efforts to stimulate productivity? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Prime Minister's Department since 1 July 1970. 
By branch, for each year from 1970 to 1976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed, and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed, and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged, in each branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 8 March, 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of National Resources since 1 July, 1970. 
By Branch, for each year from 1970 to 1976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged, in each Branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of Overseas Trade since 1 July 1970. 
By branch, for each year from 1970 to 1976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged, in each branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of the Treasury since 1 July 1970. 
By branch, for each year from 1970 to 1976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged, in each branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations since 1 July 1970. 
By Division, for each year from 1970 to 1976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged in each branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of Construction since 1 July 1970. 
By branch, for each year from 1970 to 1976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged, in each branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development since 1 July 1970. 
By branch, for each year from 1970-1976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged in each branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of Postal and Telecommunications since 1 July 1970. 
2 ) By branch, for each year from 1 970 to 1 976 what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged in each branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Attorney-General's Department since1 July 1970. 
By branch, for each year from 1970 to 1976 what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged in each branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs since 1 July 1970. 
2 ) By branch, for each year from 1 970 to 1 976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged, in each branch of the Department: 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
When were the mining companies involved in sand mining on Fraser Island first informed of the Federal Government's decision relating to the recommendations of the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry, and by whom were they informed: 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
What reply did the Prime Minister give to the submission from the Insurance Council of Australia, dated 24 November 1976, relating to the financing and co-ordination of fire brigades. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of Defence since 1 July 1970. 
By branch, for each year from 1970 to 1976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged in each branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs since 1 July 1970. 
By branch, for each year from 1970 to 1976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged in each branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of Veterans' Affairs since 1 July 1970. 
by branch, for each year from 1970 to 1976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged in each branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of Productivity since 1 July 1970? 
By branch, for each year from 1970 to 1976 what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged? 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged in each branch of the Department? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Is the Government currently considering a large increase in medical charges as was suggested in the newsletter  Inside Canberra,  dated 25 February 1977. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of Transport since 1 July 1970. 
) By branch, for each year from 1 970 to 1 976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977 what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged in each branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Why did the Australian Broadcasting Commission decide to cancel  The Off Show. 
-Can the Minister for Social Security advise whether there is a woman on the Social Security Appeals Tribunal in each Territory or State except Queensland? Can the Minister advise also whether there is currently a vacancy on the Appeals Tribunal in Queensland? If so, has the Minister considered, or will she consider, the appointment of a woman to the Appeals Tribunal in that State? If there is currently no vacancy on the Appeals Tribunal in Queensland, will the Minister consider the appointment of a woman when there is a vacancy in the future? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Was the report by Greg Hartung in the  Australian  dated 25 February 1977, entitled '250 boost for CES staff incorrect in stating that 'a confidential government report shows that more than 141 000 people registered as unemployed voluntarily resigned their jobs' and that the people concerned constituted 40 per cent of those registered as unemployed and receiving the dole '? If so, what are the details: 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, 9 March 1977: 
What quantity of wool has been purchased by the Australian Wool Corporation in each month since November 1975, and at what cost. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
Will the continued high demand for export of live sheep to Middle East countries by Australia, and resultant increased pressure for frozen and chilled mutton and lambs, lead to increases in the price of store sheep as was claimed by Kenneth Graham, in an article entitled 'Sheep on the Comeback Trail', which appeared in the  Bulletin  dated 5 March 1977? If so, what action can the Minister take to minimise any increases in the domestic price of mutton and lamb. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Does any Federal Government department or instrumentality rent or lease space in the building known as Professional Suites at 1 38 Albert Street, Brisbane. If so, (a) what departments are involved, (b) what are the relevant rental or leasing arrangements, (c) what is the annual cost of rental or leasing, (d) who was the builder of the building concerned, and (e) who owns the building. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Is the Federal Government giving consideration to declaring a 320 kilometre economic zone around the Australian coastline as was suggested by the Queensland Premier and quoted in the Brisbane  Telegraph  of 2 March 1977. If so (a) what are the details, and (b) has the Queensland Premier made a formal submission to the Government on this matter. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Does the Department of Social Security have information on which bus operators offer concessions to pensioners. If so, who are these operators in Queensland. 
) Do any bus operators in Central Queensland offer concessions to pensioners, (a) If so, which operators, and (b) if not, is the Depanment able to make any approaches to these operators to ask them to consider offering concessions. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
With respect to the strong criticism of the Federal Government 's deferral of funding for the proposed James Cook Medical School in Townsville by the Queensland Premier, quoted in the Townsville  Daily Bulletin  dated 4 March 1 977, (a) did the Prime Minister give approval for his reply to be released to the media, and (b) what is the full text of (i) the Premier's letter and (ii) the Prime Minister's reply, referred to in the Townsville  Daily Bulletin  article concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
With relation to the Minister's reply to Question No. 1 476, concerning agencies of the Commonwealth Employment Service, how should an agency apply for a higher grading. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
Is the text of the letter from the Premier of Queensland to the Prime Minister relating to Aboriginal land rights in Queensland quoted in the  Catholic Leader  dated 27 February 1977, the full text of the correspondence concerned. If so, (a) did the Premier of Queensland seek the Prime Minister's approval before releasing the text of his letter to the media, and (b) what is the full text of the Prime Minister's reply to the Premier on this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
1 ) What funds were provided by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for road works in (a) 1976, and (b) 1976-77. 
What proportion of the 1975-76 Commonwealth allocation for road works in Queensland remained unspent at 30 June 1976. 
What proportion of the 1976-77 Commonwealth allocation for road works in Queensland has remained unspent at the end of each month since 30 June 1976. 
Can the Minister provide details of the amount of revenue derived by the Commonwealth from fuel tax in Queensland in 1975-76. 
Can the Minister estimate the amount of revenue that will be derived by the Commonwealth from fuel tax in Queensland in (a) 1976-77, and (b) 1977-78. 
What funding did the Queensland Government seek for road works in 1977-78. 
What funds will the Commonwealth provide for road works in Queensland in 1977-78. 
What is the reason for the difference, if any, in the amounts stated in answer to (6) and (7). 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
Did Messrs Morris, fletcher and Cross, Solicitors of Brisbane, write to the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee on 28 June 1976, on behalf of Iwasaki Sangyo Co. (Aust) Pty Ltd, relating to the proposed borrowing by Iwasaki Sangyo Co. (Aust.) Pty Ltd of Japan of A$290,000 in order to finance a proposed tourist development project at Yeppoon in Queensland. If so, (a) what are the details of the request by Iwasaki Sangyo Co. (Aust.) Pty Ltd, (b) what stage has the submission to the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee reached, (c) has the Australian Government sought any informaton relating to the submission from the Queensland Government, (d) has the Australian Government sought any information relating to the submission from any other organisations or individuals and (e ), in view of the reported serious criticisms of the Iwasaki proposals by organisations such as the Queensland Conservation Council, the Capricorn Coast Protection Council, the Capricorn Master Fishermans Association, the Capricorn Conservation Council, and returned soldiers' organisations, will the Treasurer ensure that a detailed investigation of the Iwasaki proposals, including discussion with relevant interest groups and Government instrumentalities, will be undertaken before any further approval is given by the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee to the submissions on behalf of the Company. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 5 March 1977: 
Did the Northern Land Council send a telegram to the  Prime Minister dated 4 March 1977, criticising the attitude of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly to Aboriginal land rights. If so, what action does the Prime Minister intend taking on this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 1 5 March 1977: 
What assistance does the Commonwealth Employment Service provide at present to meet the social problems, as opposed to financial and job-finding problems, experienced by unemployed people registered for employment with the Service. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
What action, if any, has the Government taken to implement the recommendations of the Report by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission, entitled  Rural Health in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) Does the latest Commonwealth Cash and Conversion Loan (Loan Number 237) at the short end offer an interest rate of 9.8 per cent per annum, whereas the previous loan (Number 236) offered only 8.5 per cent per annum at the short end. 
Why did the Government choose to follow the market in setting the increased interest rate for Loan No. 237 rather than lead the market, and thus encourage a general lowering of interest rates, by maintaining the interest rate at the 8.5 per cent level. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
1 ) How many (a) males and (b) females were registered as unemployed with the Commonwealth Employment Service in Queensland as at 25 February 1977. 
How many (a) males and (b) females of the number listed in ( 1 ) were in receipt of unemployment benefit as at 25 February 1977. 
Of the remainder not listed in (2), how many (i) had been refused unemployment benefit, (ii) had not applied for unemployment benefit, (iii) had been denied unemployment benefit, because they had left their previous employment of their own accord, and were waiting out the necessary sixweek interim period before reapplying, and (iv) what are the details of any persons not covered by parts (i), (ii), and (iii). 
Will the Minister provide a more detailed breakdown of the reasons for refusal of unemployment benefit for those persons mentioned in (3) (i). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
Has the Acting Crown Solicitor of Queensland taken out a writ in the Queensland registry of the High Court, naming the Commonwealth of Australia, Aberdare Holdings Pty Ltd and John Charles Bennett, as defendants, and seeking a declaration that the purported acquisition by the Commonwealth of certain lands in the Parish of Noosa is unauthorised and void. If so, will the Commonwealth be defending the writ. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has provided the  following  answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The State of Queensland has taken out a writ in the Queensland Registry of the High Court of Australia naming the Commonwealth of Australia, Aberdare Holdings Pty Limited and John Charles Bennett as defendants. Queensland is seeking a declaration that the purported acquisition by the Commonwealth of certain lands in the Parish of Noosa was not authorised by the Lands Acquisition Act and is void. The Statement of Claim has recently been delivered and is being considered by the Commonwealth's legal advisers. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
Has the Queensland Government approached the Federal Government for specific financial assistance to meet the cost of repairing damaged roads and bridges resulting from recent Hooding in north Queensland. If so, (a) what are the details, and (b) when is it expected that the Federal Government will reply to Queensland 's request. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
Does the Australian Atomic Energy Commission plan to prepare an evironmental impact statement under the provisions of the Environment Protections (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974, relating to its intention to build a new reactor at  Lucas  Heights. If so, what are the details. If not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
Have Commonwealth Veterinary Officers found traces of cholera in the Beenleigh region of Queensland at any time during the last three years. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
1 ) Has Queensland no specific legislation covering the use of environmental impact statements. 
Will a decision taken by a recent meeting of the Minerals and Energy Council result in State Governments taking responsibility in future for the preparation of environmental impact statements on new mining developments. 
If the answers to (1) and (2) are in the affirmative, what action does the Federal Government intend taking to ensure that adequate environmental impact statements on new mining projects are prepared by the Queensland Government. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) For each State and for each Territory in Australia, how many telephone exchanges are not automatic exchanges. 
2 ) What are the names of these exchanges. 
For each exchange, when is it planned that the exchange will be replaced by or absorbed into an automatic exchange. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
What is the annual cost of vandalism to public telephones in (a) Australia, ( b) each State, and (c) each capital city. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) Why were the three appointments to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal announced by the Minister on 23 
December 1976 made by a Cabinet committee rather than the full Cabinet. 
Is it usual practice for appointments to statutory bodies to be made by a Cabinet committee rather than by the full Cabinet. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) What is the definition of the term 'minor' under which Telecom Australia and Australia Post operate. 
Is it official policy of Telecom Australia and Australia Post that, where a minor is employed as a temporary lineman or temporary lines assistant, the minor concerned is to be replaced by an adult employee as soon as a suitable adult employee becomes available. If so, why. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of Foreign Affairs since 1 July 1970? 
By branch, for each year from 1970 to 1976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged? 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged in each branch of the Department? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of the Capital Territory since 1 July 1 970. 
By branch, for each year from 1 970 to 1 976 what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged in each branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Was a paid advertisement included with mailed copies of Australia Post's first  Stamp Preview  for 1977. If so, (a) by whom was the advertisement placed, and (b) what revenue did Australia Post receive for this advertisement. 
(a) How many copies of the first  Stamp Preview  for 1977 were mailed, (b) what was the cost of production and (c) what were the mail handling costs. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
Did the Treasury recently prepare a document criticising in detail changes to the Federal Government's economic policy advocated by the Queensland Treasurer,  Mr Knox.  If so, (a) at whose direction was the document prepared, (b) was the document circulated to Federal Liberal parliamentarians, (c) to whom was the document circulated other than Federal Liberal parliamentarians, and (d) what was the full text of the document. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 29 March 1977: 
Has there been any request from drivers in Commonwealth car pools for a system of flexitime to be introduced on a permanent or on a trial basis. If so, what are the details including the car pool or pools involved and the decision which was made following the request. If not, what would be the response to such a request. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
With respect to the position for a secretary on the Prime Minister's personal staff advertised in the  Sydney Morning Herald  dated 1 9 February 1 977, what was the reason for the departure of the former incumbent of that position. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. Is the Government currently studying an appraisal of Australia's education system by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development? If so, what form does the Government's study of the report take? When will the study be completed? Is it intended to make the OECD report public? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to a comment in the  Bulletin  of 9 April which suggested that appeals tribunals may be abolished. Is the Government examining, or has it examined, proposals to abolish the Social Security Appeals Tribunals? If so, what stage has the Government's examination of this proposal reached? What form of review of Social Security Department decisions would be available to citizens if the Appeals Tribunals were abolished? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Have any estimates in the past been made of the costs of setting up a new State in Queensland or elsewhere. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Did Telecom Australia refuse to insert the words 'Aboriginal Embassy' in the Canberra Telephone Directory, in the listing for what is known as the Aboriginal Embassy in Mugga Way, Canberra. If so, why. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Why was it decided that a Melbourne florist be engaged to provide floral arrangements for The Lodge and Parliament 
House, for receptions for Her Majesty the Queen, rather than utilise the services of Canberra florists. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
What funds has the South Australian Land Commission received from the Commonwealth since its inception. 
Have any other States indicated their interest in the establishment of a Land Commission since 1 1 November 197S; if so, what are the details. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, by explaining that I have received information from a constituent who was a school leaver in 1976 in relation to her claim for unemployment benefit in January this year. Although she claimed for unemployment benefit early in January she was not granted benefit until after the 1977 school year began. Following the recent court decision on unemployment benefit for a school leaver, she inquired whether she could now claim benefit for the early part of January. She states that she was told that claims for benefit for that period have now been destroyed. Can the Minister confirm whether that is correct? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 22 March 1 977: 
Have there been negotiations between the Commonwealth Government, the Australian Universities Commission, the Queensland State Government, the James Cook University and the Townsville College of Advanced Education, with respect to the amalgamation of the latter 2 institutions; if so, what are the details, including the present state of any negotiations. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 20 April 1 977: 
Did the Department of Education provide Government members and senators with a brief outlining how criticisms against the Fraser Government's performance in education funding should be rebutted; if so, (a) at whose instigation was the document prepared, (b) when was it prepared and by whom, (c) to whom was it sent, and (d) what was the full text of the document. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts, upon notice, on 8 March 1 977: 
Has the Federal Government refused to provide financial support for the Australian National Playwrights Conference to be held in Canberra in May 1977. If so, why. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Has the Queensland Government made a formal submission seeking Federal assistance for victims of recent flooding in north Queensland. If so, (a) what are the details of the submission, and (b) when does the Federal Government expect to be in a position to reply to the Queensland Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
When does the Government propose to table legislation concerning the pecuniary interests of members of the Federal Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
What are the estimated Commonwealth funds that would have been received to date by the Queensland Government had the Premier of Queensland agreed to the Federal Government's proposal for the stabilisation of land prices, contained in a letter from the former Prime Minister to the Premier dated 27 December 1972. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Did the former Prime Minister write to the Premier of Queensland on 17 September 1974, advising that a grant of $3m would be made available towards construction of Clare Weir. If so, what action has been taken on this matter since the dispatch of that letter. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Has the Premier of Queensland written any confidential letters to the Prime Minister since 13 February 1977. If so, how many. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the Australian Bureau of Statistics has, on behalf of the Queensland Government, recently conducted a survey of persons registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service? If so, to what use will that survey be put by the Queensland Government and on whose authority was the survey conducted? Since the Commonwealth Government is responsible for the Commonwealth Employment Service, could it be regarded as an abuse of the operations of either the Bureau of Statistics or the Commonwealth Employment Service or of both for this survey to be conducted for the Queensland Government? 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
Is the Queensland Government refusing to take part in the Advisory Council for Inter-governmental Relations. If so, (a) what reasons has the Queensland Government advanced for not taking part, (b) have any other States adopted the same attitude as Queensland, and (c) what effect will 
Queensland 's decision have on the function and operation of the Council. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Has the Queensland Premier advised the Federal Government that his State will not support any moves for dearer private health insurance or for an increase in the Medibank levy. If so, (a) what are the details of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen's  advice; (b) can the non-support of a State Government affect Commonwealth decisions on either of these two matters; and (c) does the Federal Government intend to raise these two matters at the next Premier's Conference. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
Is the Queensland Government withholding from use funds provided to it by the Commonwealth Government for women's shelters. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) In each State and Territory, which airports are used by commercial aircraft. 
In each State and Territory which airports used by commercial aircraft have non-directional beacons. 
Which of the airports, which do not have nondirectional beacons, have navigational aids other than nondirectional beacons and what are these aids. 
At which of the airports which do not have nondirectional beacons is it possible to use navigational aids for nearby airports, and what are the details for each. 
For each airport with no non-directional beacon (a) when is it expected that a non-directional beacon will be installed, and (b) what is the estimated cost of installing a non-directional beacon. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
1 ) How many persons lost their jobs as a result of the shutdown of the DM Minerals sandmining activities on Fraser Island. 
How many of the persons listed in (1) have so far found alternative employment. 
How many of the persons listed in ( 1 ) have sought the assistance ofthe Commonwealth Employment Service. 
How many of the persons listed in (2) were assisted by the Commonwealth Employment Service in locating their new job. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Is the tourist and accommodation industry 'virtually unable to take advantage' of the 40 per cent investment allowance as claimed by the Queensland Minister for Tourism,  Mr Hodges,  in the  Courier-Mail  of 19 February 1977. If so, (a) why, and (b) does the Minister see any likelihood of his Government being able to provide further assistance to the tourist industry via a relaxation of restrictions on the use of the investment allowance. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
With reference to the Minister's reply to a question without notice from  Mr Peter  Johnson M.P., in the House of Representatives on 9 September 1976  (Hansard,  page 859), relating to the  This Day Tonight  television program on Cedar Bay screened on 7 September 1976, has the Minister concluded his inquiries. If so, does the Minister agree that, in the light of subsequent information that has come to light, the  This Day Tonight  program was an objective and balanced coverage of the Cedar Bay raid. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
What is the number of Commonwealth Employment Service officers, and the time involved per month, in the collection and dissemination of the official unemployment statistics. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, dated 15 March 1977: 
What action is the Minister taking to determine whether the use of saccharin should be banned in Australia, following the decisions by the United States of America and Canada to remove saccharin from the market after Canadian tests found it caused cancer in animals. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
In view of the Government's stated aim of a 4 per cent real expansion in the Australian economy in this financial year, and in the light of the devaluation of the Australian dollar by 1 7.5 per cent and subsequent revaluation by 2 per cent, is the Government still depending on an increase in the velocity of money to realise that aim, as was suggested by the Treasurer in an interview with the Brisbane economist,  Mr H.  W. Herbert, published in the Brisbane  Sunday Mail  dated 28 November 1976. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
What is the Minister's response to the call by the Australian Council of State School Organisations, referred to in an article in the  Courier-Mail  dated 17 February 1977, for an urgent injection of $20m into school building programs to combat an approaching crisis in school accommodation. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
Can a State Government establish a State Trading or Savings Bank without reference to the Federal Government. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In prefacing my question I assume that the Minister is aware that a highly controversial redistribution of State boundaries in Queensland is currently being carried out by the Queensland Government appointed commissioners, including  Sir Douglas  Fraser, who is aged 77 years and a patron of the National Civic Council, and  Mr Archibald  Archer, who is aged 75 years and a former member of the Country Party. In view of the increasing criticism in Queensland over the background of the commissioners and of the redistribution itself, both from the Labor Party and from the Minister's own Party, will the Minister confirm that  Mr Archibald  Archer's name was put forward for consideration as a Commonwealth distribution commissioner prior to the announcement of the commissioners in April? If so, who suggested  Mr Archer  for this task? Secondly, is it a fact that  Mr Archer's  name was rejected by the Commonwealth Government for a number of reasons, most important of which was that  Mr Archer  was considered to be so biased towards the National Party that he was unlikely to carry out his duties as distribution commissioner impartially. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
Has the Government given consideration to extending the investment allowance to small businessmen, a course of action advocated by  Mr Tom  Cooper of  President  Office Machines NSW Pty Ltd, as quoted in the article 'Investment Allowance Urged for Small Business', in the  Financial Review  dated 14 March 1 977. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that the Queensland Government is planning to set up a national fitness camp on Fraser Island. 
If so, (a) are Commonwealth funds, provided as compensation following the cessation of sandmining on Fraser Island, to be used for the establishment of the national fitness camp. If so, what are the details of the cost involved; (b) how many persons will be employed in (i) establishing and (ii) operating the camp and; (c) will an environmental impact statement be undertaken before the national fitness camp proposals proceed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
When a draft environmental impact statement is released, are copies available in each of the State offices of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. If so, (a) what facilities are available in each State office of the Department for the public to read and make comments on environmental impact statements, (b) where are all State offices of the Department located, and (c) which draft environmental impact statements are currently under review, and where are copies available for perusal. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
Was the Federal Government's proposal to conduct an inquiry into land development and housing costs in Australia discussed at the April Premiers' Conference. If so, what decision was reached? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) What funds has the Federal Government provided for the (i) Thursday Island Hospital, and (ii) the Darnley Island Clinic in each year since 1 970. 
Has the Department of Health made investigations into the death of a baby at the Darnley Island Clinic recently. If so, (a) what are the details and (b) what further action does the Minister intend taking as a result of the investigations, in particular with relation to the administration of drug suppliers for clinics in the Torres Strait region by the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Will the domestic price of beef in Australia rise because of the increasing quantities of Australian beef sent for export, and the resultant upward pressure on prices, as was suggested by Kenneth Graham in an article entitled 'Sheep on the Comeback Trail', which appeared in the  Bulletin,  dated 5 March 1977. If so, what action can the Minister take to minimise any price rises for beef. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Has  Mr David  Anderson resigned as a member of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. If so, for what reason. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in 
Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Did the Public Service Board recently formulate a new policy for remote locality leave and assistance for fares for postal and telecommunications staff, without reference to Australia Post or Telecom Australia. If so, (a) why were Australia Post and Telecom Australia not consulted, (b) will Australia Post and Telecom Australia be consulted, (c) will the relevant trade unions be consulted; and (d) when is it expected that the new policy will take effect. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 8 March 1 977: 
1 ) What assistance does the Federal Government intend providing to the Bundaberg Irrigation Scheme, in the light of comments by the  Chairman  of the Bundaberg Irrigation Committee,  Mr E.  H. Churchward, referred to in the Brisbane  Telegraph  dated 24 February 1977, that the scheme needs $70m, at the rate of $ I Om per year, to maintain it in operation. 
What funding assistance has the Federal Government provided for the Bundaberg Irrigation Scheme in the past. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the article in the Melbourne  Age  dated 24 February 1977, entitled ' Bjelke closes land loophole', in which a spokesman for the Queensland Premier claimed that the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission was 'dodging the Constitution so Federal enclaves can be set up' in Queensland, and that agents of the Commission may 'use unofficial names to get around the State's refusal to transfer leases to blacks'. If so, (a) has the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission undertaken any illegal or undercover activities in Queensland, and (b) what action is the Minister taking as a result of the allegations made in the  Age  article. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) What funding has the Australian Government provided to Aboriginals in the Mareeba Shire in Queensland since December 1972. 
In the light of the proposed eviction of ten Aboriginal families by the Mareeba Shire Council from council houses at the Mareeba Aboriginal Reserve, what action can the Minister take to ensure that the families concerned are adequately housed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs since 1 July 1970. 
By branch, for each year from 1970 to 1976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged, in each branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Did the former Prime Minister write to the Premier of Queensland on 21 August 1973, advising that the sum of $4.4m had been provided for growth centres in Queensland, at Townsville, the Fitzroy region, and the Moreton region. If so, what action has been taken relating to the three proposed growth centres since the dispatch of the letter concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What action has the Minister taken to assist in overcoming the shocking conditions at Redlynch Aboriginal reserve in north Queensland, outlined in an article entitled 'Redlynch Aboriginal Reserve "Explosive" ' which appeared in the Cairns Post dated 5 February 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
What schemes are currently in existence under the patronage of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations to stimulate employment opportunities for school leavers. 
-Is the Minister for Science aware that the Queensland Minister for Mines,  Mr Camm,  has recently indicated that he favours oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef? As well, is the Minister aware that  Mr Camm  has also claimed that an interim investigation has shown that there would be no danger to the reef from oil exploration and drilling? Is the Minister able to inform the Senate of the investigation to which  Mr Camm  has referred? Was the Commonwealth involved in the investigation and what are the Commonwealth's intentions in respect of drilling on the reef? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
Is an inquiry currently taking place within the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, following claims by fourteen Aboriginals employed by the Department relating to promotion. If so (a) what are the details of the claims concerned; (b) when did the inquiry commence; (c) when will the inquiry conclude; (d) who is conducting the inquiry; (e) to whom will the report of the inquiry be presented; (f) is it intended that the report of the inquiry will be made public; (g) what liaison has taken place between the Department and the Public Service Board over this matter; and (h) have similar allegations been made at any time in the past three years. If so: (i) what are the details; (ii) were inquiries undertaken; and (iii) if inquiries were undertaken, what action was taken as a result of the inquiry or inquiries concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
Is the Attorney-General aware that the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development will be conducting a seminar on privacy in September this year, at which it is probable that a convention guaranteeing peoples' right to privacy from the growing traffic in information via the computer will be drawn up. If so, will Australia be represented at the seminar. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
What funds were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for Aboriginal Affairs matters in (a) 1972-73, (b) 1973-74, (c) 1974-75, (d) 1975-76 and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c) and (d) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
If funds did remain unspent in any of the periods in question, was the Queensland Government wholly responsible or did the Australian Government over-allocate funds to Queensland for Aboriginal Affairs. 
What amount from (e) remains unspent at the present time. 
Does the Commonwealth Government expect that the entire allocation for (e) will be spent by the Queensland Government in 1 976-77. If not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
With reference to the Minister's reply to Question No. 990 relating to the Report of the Working Party on Aboriginal Employment (Senate  Hansard,  5 October 1976, page 1003), what action has the Government taken as a result of the joint examination of the Working Party's Report by the Ministers for Employment and Industrial Relations, Social Security, Education and Aboriginal Affairs. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
Does the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations produce a breakdown of statistics of unemployed persons into job categories for each employment district in Australia on a regular basis. If so, (a) how often are the statistics produced, (b) to whom are they made available, and (c) why has the Toowoomba Chamber of Commerce had difficulty in obtaining the relevant statistics for the Toowoomba Employment District, as was indicated in an article in the Toowoomba Chronicle dated 23 February 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in the Brisbane  Sunday Mail  dated 27 March 1977, concerning a claim by the Liberal Member for Griffith,  Mr D.  M. Cameron, M.P., that groups moving from suburb to suburb by car have established a $3m a year Australia-wide racket in stolen social security and taxation cheques. If so, has an investigation been undertaken into the claims made by  Mr Cameron. 
If the answer to ( 1 ) is in the affirmative: 
when was the investigation completed, 
who carried out the investigation, 
is there evidence to suggest that a group of Aboriginals in Brisbane has formed a co-operative to steal taxation cheques from letter boxes. If so, what are the details and what action has been taken against the group concerned, 
will the Minister provide detailed information on 
the number of cheques reported as stolen in Brisbane since 1 July 1976, 
the face value of the cheques, 
the Brisbane suburbs from which cheques have been reported as stolen, 
the number of prosecutions launched since I July 1 976 over stolen cheques, 
the number of successful prosecutions since I July 1976, 
the number of replacement cheques issued, 
vii) how many of the stolen cheques referred to in (i ) were reported as stolen from letter boxes, and 
with reference to the reply to part (iv), how many prosecutions against Aboriginals were launched, and 
what further action does the Minister intend taking following the investigation that has been carried out. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 20 April 1 977: 
Did Dillingham-Murphyores Minerals apply for an export licence in August or September 1 976, for approval to make export shipments of mineral sands from Fraser Island outside the export contracts approved with the Australian Mines and Metals Corporation. 
What were the dates and tonnages of mineral sand from Fraser Island exported by Dillingham-Murphyores Minerals since 1 August 1976. 
3 ) Which of the above shipments, if any, have been made to firms other than Australian Mines and Metals Corporation. 
Has the dispute between Dillingham-Murphyores Minerals and Australian Mines and Metals Corporation over contracts for the sale of Fraser Island mineral sand been arbitrated in San Francisco. If so, how was the dispute resolved. 
What negotiations have taken place between the Commonwealth Government and the mining companies on Fraser Island over the proposed $5m in ex gratia payments. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to pan (2), Question No. 194 (Senate  Hansard,  29 March 1977, page 611), regarding vaccine against influenza strains, will the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories be able to meet the demand from persons other than those in the ' at risk ' groups. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1 977: 
What action is the Minister taking to rectify the apparent inadequacy of facilities available at the computer centre of the Depanment of Social Security in Sydney outlined in the article entitled 'Social Security Workload Too High' by Frank Linton-Simpkins, which appeared in the  Australian,  dated 29 March 1977. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 21 April 1977: 
What facilities will the Government be making available so that all voters in the forthcoming poll to choose an official national anthem for Australia can hear the 4 tunes prior to 21 May. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
Has the Minister investigated the claims relating to the apparent shutdown of an engine aboard British Airways Flight 889 from Brisbane on 16 March 1977, contained in the Inside Column 'of the  Sydney Morning Herald  dated 9 April 1977. If so, what action does the Minister intend taking as a result of his investigations. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to question No. 797 concerning South Sea Islanders (Senate  Hansard,  1 7 August 1976), has the Inter-departmental Committee report been received. If so, (a) when was it received, and (b) what further action has the Minister taken as a result ofthe report. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
Has the Queensland Premier made formal representations to the Prime Minister concerning 'a number of matters relating to death duties', as was stated by the Queensland Treasurer in reply to a question without notice in the Queensland Parliament on 29 March 1977. If so, (a) what are the details and (b) what was the Prime Minister's response. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 20 April 1 977: 
Have State Committees been established as part of the Community Youth Support Scheme. If so, (a) when were the committees set up, (b) what is the function of the committees, and (c) what is the composition of each State committee. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 28 April 1 977: 
Is the Department of Social Security to hold a seminar in Mount Isa on the operations of the Depanment during May. If so, will similar seminars be held in other Queensland cities. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 28 April 1 977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Senate question No. 13, will the Minister advise the actual location of each of the Queensland offices indicated in her reply to pans (a) and ( b) of the question. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
Is the Minister aware that the former  Chairman  of Murphyores,  Mr Jim  Murphy, was quoted in the Melbourne  Age  on 18 April 1977 as claiming that the Minister would persuade Cabinet to reverse its decision to ban sand mining on Fraser Island. If so, (a) is the Minister attempting to have the decision reversed, and (b) does the Minister expect the decision to be reversed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Senate question No. 30 concerning Public Service retirement, will the Minister provide the full text of the letter issued by the Public Service Board on 14 October 1976, as was requested in Part (b) of question 30. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that 2 airports, Karratha and Albury, both exceed the International Civil Aviation Organisation's requirement for the provision of fire services at airports, and yet have no fire services. 
When will such services be provided. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
Will the Department of Transport be purchasing new ultra-large fire tenders to replace the old and worn out equipment that it now has. If so, when are the orders to be placed and will it be Australian or overseas equipment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
As money was made available in 1973 by the previous Government for the provision of new and modern fire fighting equipment for airport fire services throughout Australia, when is it anticipated that it will be supplied. If not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
Will the Minister assure the Senate that no action will be taken by the Depanment of Transport to lower rescue firefighting standards at airports. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 4 May 1 977: 
Is the Minister aware of a brief which was provided to members and/or senators which outlined arguments to be used to defend the Government's performance on education, if so, (a) at whose instigation was the document prepared, (b) when was it prepared and by whom, (c) to whom was it sent, and (d) what was the full text of the document. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Australian Bureau of Statistics, on behalf of the Queensland Government, recently conducted a survey of persons registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service. If so, 
to what use will this survey be put by the Queensland Government, and 
b ) on whose authority was the survey conducted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) For each State and Territory and for Australia as a total, what was, for each month since the inception of the National Employment and Training System, the number of full-time (a) trainees who commenced training; (b) trainees in training; (c) trainees whose training period concluded; and (d) trainees who terminated their course prematurely, (i) voluntarily, and (ii) involuntarily. 
What were the corresponding figures for part-time trainees. 
What were the corresponding figures for on the job trainees. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 20 April 1 977: 
Is the Professional Employment Office in Brisbane, because of understaffing, not referring available jobs to persons registered as unemployed with the Professional Employment Office. If so, (a) what is the current staffing structure of the office in Brisbane; (b) what are the duties ascribed to each of the positions outlined in part (a); (c) what are the duties being currently carried out by each of the persons holding the positions outlined in part (a); (d) what action is being taken to locate jobs for persons registered as unemployed with the Professional Employment Office in Brisbane; (e) what action is being taken to rectify any problems being experienced within the Professional Employment Office in Brisbane; and (!) does a similar situation exist elsewhere in Australia. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
What disaster relief was (a) requested, and (b) provided by the Queensland Government in respect to flood damage in Warwick in February 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Do Treasury estimates agree with the suggestion by  Mr Bob  Stimson and  Mr Tony  Cleland, contained in an article in the  Australian  dated 1 April 1977, that the Federal Government will waste$1 7m spent on the 1976 census to save $2m, because of the decision to process only a sample of the 1976 census forms. If so, will the Government reconsider its decision on this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
In view of the Queensland Government's decision to allocate $10m for the staging of the 1982 Commonwealth Games in Brisbane, provided the Federal Government matches that amount, when will the Commonwealth's final decision on this matter be made known. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
Why would an increase in the Budget deficit be inflationary whilst Australian industry is operating well below capacity. 
I support the motion moved by  Senator Grimes.  For the benefit of those people who are listening to this debate and those who will read the record of it, I shall read the motion moved by  Senator Grimes.  It reads as follows: 
That in the opinion of the Senate the following is a matter of urgency: 
The Government's failure to properly reconsider applications for unemployment benefit by school leavers illegally deprived of benefits at the end of the last school year following the High Court decision on the Karen Green case. 
Shortly after I first entered this chamber I made my views in relation to unemployment benefits known quite clearly. I stated at that time that I believe that unemployment benefits- indeed, all social security benefits- were the right of any person who had a need of those benefits. I indicated that I personally had faced periods of unemployment and therefore understood the frustrations and disappointments which daily face people who are in such circumstances. But a person does not need to have been unemployed and needed sickness benefits or any of the other types of benefits that are available- to understand that people in certain circumstances do have a need and should have a right to receive those benefits at such a time. If people had sufficient compassion for their fellow members of society they would know that benefits are needed at some stage. I believe that all of us would much prefer that people did not require benefits, that people were employed, that people did not fall ill and that people did not find themselves in the position in which single parents find themselves. But, in our society those things occur, and when they occur it is up to individuals in society to provide for their fellows. We have found in our society that the best way of providing is through a system of social security benefits. 
Shortly after I was elected, but before I took my place in this chamber, I started to become disillusioned with some of the actions of the present Government in relation to social security benefits. My disillusionment has grown even greater since then. I shall cite the first instance. Before I took my place here, this Government invoked section 120 of the Social Services Act to make it even more difficult for certain people to obtain unemployment benefit. Unfortunately, whether by design or otherwise, many of those who are in genuine need in our society are not receiving the benefits that they deserve or require to keep themselves at a reasonable standard of living. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  during her speech, mentioned the rapid increases in the number of unemployed and the number of people receiving unemployment benefit. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table headed 'Unemployment Statistics April 1975, 1976, 1977'. I have shown a copy of this table to the Minister. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="073232197705251_22_0.jpg"></graphic>

-If one refers to this table one sees that there has been a rapid increase in the number of unemployed since the present Government came to power. I have taken the figures for April simply because they are the latest figures available. I could have taken figures for earlier months. They would have shown an even worse picture, but I have taken the latest figures available. If we look at the number of unemployed in April 1975 and in April 1976- this Government was in power in 1976- we see an increase. From 1976 to 1977 there was an increase also. If we look at the number of recipients of unemployment benefit we see increases since this Government came to power as well. 
I have included in the table unemployment statistics for Queensland as well, because that is the State which I represent. I invite honourable senators to study this table in relation to Queensland. In April 1975 there were 28 672 recipients of unemployment benefit in 
Queensland. In April 1976 the number dropped slightly to 27 315. In April of this year 34 274 people were receiving unemployment benefit. That is far greater than the number in 1975. There may have been increases prior to 1975, but it is ludicrous to hide the fact that since 1975 there have been increases in the number of unemployed and in the number of people receiving unemployment benefit. These figures outline quite clearly the great need for unemployment benefit in Australia at present. 
The recent High Court decision illustrates how this Government has attempted to dodge its responsibilities in relation to the unemployed. Let us look carefully at section 107 of the Social Services Act. Earlier I asked the Minister whether I could incorporate this section in Hansard. I now ask for leave to have it incorporated. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The section read as follows- 

DIVISION 2- 
QUALIFICATIONS FOR BENEFITS 
107. Subject to this Part, a person (not being a person in receipt of a pension or allowance under Part III. or IV. of this Act or a service pension under the Repatriation Act 1 920- 1954) who- 
has attained the age of sixteen years but, being a male, has not attained the age of sixty-five years or, being a female, has not attained the age of sixty years; 
is residing in Australia on the date on which he lodges his claim for a benefit and- 
has been continuously so resident for a period of not less than twelve months immediately preceding that date; or 
satisfies the Director-General that he is likely to remain permanently in Australia; and 
satisfies the Director-General that he- 
is unemployed and that his unemployment is not due to his being a direct participant in a strike; 
is capable of undertaking, and is willing to undertake, work which, in the opinion of the Director-General, is suitable to be undertaken by that person; and 
has taken reasonable steps to obtain such work, shall be qualified to receive an unemployment benefit. 
Let us study this section in detail. Let us look at section 107 paragraph (a). It is quite easy to determine whether a person has attained the age of 16 years and all the other circumstances mentioned in that paragraph. It is quite easy to determine all the circumstances set out in paragraph (b). That relates to whether a person is residing in Australia and so on. It is in regard to paragraph (c) that the ambiguity or the argument in this case seems to prevail. Paragraph (c) states:  satisfies the Director-General that he- 
is unemployed . . . 
What do we mean by 'unemployed'? It would seem to me that, after a person leaves school and declares to the Department of Social Security that he or she has left school and is looking for work but cannot find work, that person is unemployed. Sub-paragaph (iii) states:  has taken reasonable steps to obtain such work. 
What are 'reasonable steps'? If a person has looked for work and cannot obtain it, it would seem to me that that person has taken reasonable steps. What has the Minister said about section 107 of the Social Services Act? She said that it was stated last year that payment of unemployment benefit to school leavers would not be made, as a matter of policy. She said this yesterday.  Senator Wriedt,  in a question to the Minister yesterday, asked in part: 
Is it not true that it was a decision of the Government to deny unemployment benefit to school leavers? 

 Senator Guilfoyle replied in part: 
In regard to the first question, it was the announced policy of the Government early last year that there would not be automatic unemployment benefit for school leavers immediately on the cessation of a school year. 
What then has happened? There was a policy decision of the present Government that school leavers would not be eligible for unemployment benefit after leaving school. It is a policy decision that the Government made irrespective of section 107 of the Social Services Act. I fail to see how anybody who looked carefully at section 107 could think that the Government could get away with refusing to pay unemployment benefit to school leavers who were unemployed. Yet it has done so. It has done so because of a policy decision. The Minister said so this afternoon in her speech. She said so yesterday in answer to a question. Section 107 is there for everybody to study carefully. This is the section which has been glossed over with regard to school leavers. 

 Senator Grimes this afternoon pointed out the number of persons who had been deprived of unemployment benefit, although they claimed it when they left school last year and subsequently came into the work force. He also pointed out the number of youngsters who would not have claimed unemployment benefit because of the Government's stated policy. There was a great amount of confusion among young people in December 1976 and January 1977. Young people came to me, as I am sure they came to a number of other elected representatives. They told me that they had been refused permission to register for unemployment benefit. When these people came to me, as they came to other people, I soon rectified the position and made sure that they were allowed to register. Incredibly some were not even given the relevant forms at one stage. 
What will happen now, after the High Court decision? Does the Government intend, as seems to be the case, to thumb its nose at the High Court decision? If it disregards a decision of the High Court-the highest court in this land- it is going to lose all the credibility that it had. Will people ever be able to take the word of a government that does this? 
-In great detail and with excellent comprehension. Let us have a look at certain aspects outlined in this judgment. After talking about possible abuse by school leavers or people who purport to be school leavers who apply for the unemployment benefit but then may go back to school, it says: 
Whether or not this be so, the quite understandable desire to prevent what is seen as an abuse of the Act by dishonest school leavers cannot be made the occasion for disregarding the statutory criteria of eligibility in favour of a requirement which finds no place in the legislation and the effect of which is to deny, for almost three months, to the great body of honest school leavers an opportunity to qualify for unemployment benefits. 
It seems to me that this Government has no wish at all to take any notice of the High Court decision because the Government has stated quite clearly through the Minister that it is a matter of policy that school leavers should not be eligible for the unemployment benefit. 
I could say many things in this debate about the problems of people who are unemployed, the problems of people who are looking for benefits from this Government and the problems that are associated with this judgment, among other things, but because of the time limit that is placed on urgency debates I am not able to do so. May I just reiterate that it is a matter of urgency that this Government made a policy decision last year, and reiterated it yesterday and today, that the unemployment benefit should not be payable to school leavers. I stress that the Government has dodged its responsibility to school leavers. To retain any credibility with the Australian people it must take the necessary steps to implement what was set out in the judgment by the High Court. It must pay unemployment benefits to those people who did register for it last year but who were not able to obtain it because of Government decisions of highly doubtful legality. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
What disaster relief was (a) requested and (b) provided by the Queensland Government in respect to hailstorm damage in Toowoomba in January 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
1 ) What disaster relief was provided by the Commonwealth Government to Queensland for each financial year from 1970-71 to 1975-76. 
What disaster relief has been provided by the Commonwealth Government to Queensland since 1 July 1 976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
Does the Commonwealth currently run a training program for apprentices at Eagle Farm in Brisbane. If so: 
how many apprentices are involved in each intake, and 
have the apprentices concerned been given no guarantee that their training from this program will be recognised for the purpose of obtaining employment. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
With respect to the Prime Minister's reply to Senate Question No. 43 concerning the sewerage program for Queensland, when does the Prime Minister expect to provide a final reply to the Queensland Government's submission. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
With respect to the Prime Minister's reply to Senate Question No. 299 concerning Aboriginal land rights complementary legislation, is the Prime Minister aware that the Northern Land Council has publicly circulated copies of its telegram dated 4 March 1977. If so, will the Prime Minister give details of his reply to the Northern Land Council, or alternatively indicate his attitude to the matters raised in the telegram. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 3 May 1977: 
Did the Australian Mining Industry Council write to the Prime Minister on 10 February 1977, criticising the Government's decision to ban sand mining on Fraser Island on two counts, namely: 
that the Commission of Inquiry's Report was not a proper basis for the decision, and 
that the Prime Minister had been misinformed on at least one vital point relevant to the decision. 
If so, what was the Prime Minister's response to these two criticisms? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 3 May 1977: 
Is the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations currently preparing employment statistics for each local government area of Australia. If so (a) what are the details of the areas concerned, (b) when will the statistics be released, and (c) how often are statistics prepared for local government areas. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 March 1 977: 
Has the Federal Government provided any financial assistance for radio and television commercials for the Community Youth Support Scheme featuring the Federal Member for Brisbane,  Mr Peter  Johnson, M.P. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of Industry and Commerce since 1 July 1970. 
By branch, for each year from 1970 to 1976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged in each branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
Have discussions commenced between officers of the Commonwealth and the States concerning the future environmental assessment of mining projects following the resolution adopted at the recent meeting of the Australian Minerals and Energy Council. If so, (a) when did the discussions commence, and (b) when is it expected that firm arrangements will be agreed upon. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
1 ) What effect is the Queensland Government's decision to abolish the ten regional co-ordination councils in that State likely to have on urban planning in Queensland. 
Was the Federal Government consulted prior to the Queensland Government's decision on this matter. If so, what are the details. 
What role, if any, did the councils play in the disbursement of Federal funds in Queensland. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
Is the Minister aware of the Queensland Government's concern that the Federal Government will take action to prevent logging activities on Fraser Island. If so, what is the 
Federal Government's attitude to logging operations on Fraser Island. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 3 May 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Pan (2) of Senate Question No. 436, concerning legislation covering the use of environmental impact statements, when is the review of the respective roles of Commonwealth and State Governments likely to be completed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 3 May 1977: 
Will the Federal Government cease funding land commissions in the near future as was suggested by the Minister for Primary Industry in a speech to the Housing Industry Association annual convention referred to in the Melbourne newspaper, the  Age,  dated 23 April 1 977. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 3 May 1977: 
Has the Australian Mining Industry Council made recommendations to the Prime Minister for amendments to the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act, in the light of the Government's decision to ban sand-mining on Fraser Island. If so, (a) what amendments have been suggested, and (b) what action is the Government taking on this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Senate question No. 75 concerning Hishamuddin Rais: 
what reasons did Hishamuddin Rais provide for seeking political asylum, and 
who were the 'other sources' referred to in part (c) of the Minister's reply. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Has the Government decided to increase the staff of the Commonwealth Employment Service by 250. If so, (a) when was the decision taken, (b) why was the increase in staffing not undertaken earlier, given the obvious understating of the Commonwealth Employment Service, (c) which offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service will receive the additional staff, and (d) when will the new appointments be effected. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware that a report in the Toowoomba  Chronicle  suggests that  Senator Sheil,  speaking to the Millmerran branch of the National Party on 17 May, made strongly disparaging remarks about Medibank and in effect recommended that Medibank be dismantled and that there be a return to private health insurance? Is the Minister able to confirm that the Government will disregard  Senator Sheil  's prescription and that there are no plans for a return to the system of private health insurance that Australia had in pre-Medibank days? 
I wish to refer to an answer which was given to a question I asked during the course of the Estimates Committees hearings. I hope to be able to be given some further information because I do not think the answer went far enough. I refer to the answer from the Department shown on page 14. During the course of the Estimates hearing I discovered that certain Aboriginals who were originally considered to come under the Aboriginals Study Grants Scheme were temporarily taken off that scheme and placed under the Tertiary Education Allowance Scheme. The consequence was, as far as I can determine, that the students who were taken off the ASGS and placed temporarily on TEAS received a lesser allowance than they normally would have received. It seems to me that they were taken off the ASGS scheme because there was not sufficient money available under that scheme but there was money available under the TEAS scheme. 
Apparently 42 students were eligible for benefits under ASGS but they were temporarily placed on TEAS. It was stated in the explanation given to me that of those 42 students the majority will have been transferred to ASGS by 3 May and the remainder by 1 7 May. A consequence of their being placed under TEAS was that they would receive a lesser allowance. The explanation given to me was that retrospective payments in respect of entitlements under ASGS should also be completed by 17 May. It seems strange that sufficient funds were not made available so that students who were entitled to a benefit under a scheme could receive the benefit. 
I imagine that each of the students found himself or herself in a financial situation which was not anticipated. I asked whether I could obtain figures showing how the estimates were arrived at. I asked this because it seemed to me that the estimates were wrongly drawn up. If they were, it should not happen again. The explanation showed that, in 1974, a total of 1467 students were receiving grants under the Aboriginal Study Grant Scheme. In 1975 this number rose to 1875. an increase of just over 400. The point I question in relation to the table on page 14 is the estimate that to 30 June 1977 there was a total of 1710 grants. One of my queries is whether that is the estimate which was used to determine the total funds for that Scheme. If this estimate was used, why was it, in fact, lower than the 1875 who were receiving grants in 1975. The total in 1 976 is, I imagine, for the total calendar year of 1976. This is why I refer to the 1975 figure rather than to the 1 976 figure which is, in fact, higher again than the 1975 figure. One question initially is whether this figure of 1710 is the estimate which was used to determine the funds available under the Aboriginal Study Grant scheme for 1 976-77. If so, why was it lower than that total amount for 1975? The following line shows that the estimate to 31 December 1977 is $2,700. I ask whether this is the revised estimate following what has been found this year to be the case with the number of students under this Scheme. I have a further question with regard to the average length of time for which these awards were held but I wish to leave that question until we perhaps have some discussion on this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
What is the full text of the letter reputedly criticising the Federal Government's interpretation of the findings of the Ranger Environmental Inquiry, sent to the Minister by the 3 Commissioners of the Ranger Inquiry, and referred to in the article entitled 'Fox Commissioners Join in Attack on Government' by Judith Hoare, which appeared in the  Financial Review  dated 30 November 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 20 April  1977: 
1 ) Why has the Federal Government not yet provided an indication of the likely funding assistance it will provide for the 1 982 Commonwealth Games to be held in Brisbane. 
When does the Federal Government expect to make a decision on this matter. 
Has (a) the Queensland Government and (b) the Brisbane City Council made formal representations to the Federal Government regarding this matter. If so, what date were the submissions received. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2  1  April  1 977: 
How many persons have been prosecuted in each month since the present Government took office, in each State and Territory, and for Australia as a whole, for making incorrect statements about employment or earnings while unemployment benefit was being paid, and how many of the prosecutions were successful. 
How many persons have been prosecuted in each month since the present Government took office, in each State and Territory, and for Australia as a whole, for lodging claims in more than one name, and how many of the prosecutions were successful. 
Have there been any other prosecutions relating to unemployment benefit, other than those listed in (1) and (2) If so, (a) what are the details and (b) how many of the prosecutions were successful. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1976: 
What contact did the Queensland Premier have with Australia 's diplomatic representatives in each country visited by the Premier during his recent trip to the Middle East. 
Last night the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  gave an explanation about some of the questions that I had raised in respect of division 270.4.09, which relates to Aboriginal Study Grants. I wish to refer again to the table on page 14 of the report presented by Estimates Committee C. That table was referred to last night. I do not yet have my copy of yesterday's  Hansard  but I think the Minister said that the figures in that table referred to the number of students receiving the study grants at the end of each particular year. The table is entitled: 'Aboriginal Study Grants Scheme- Numbers in training each year since inception of scheme (total number at some time during year)'. My first question is this: Does the reference to the total number at some time during the year indicate the number of students for that year as at the end of December? 
A further query I have relates to the explanatory notes which the Estimates Committee had in front of it when considering the estimates for the Department of Education. In part the explanatory notes say that the original appropriation for 1976-77, $1.5m, was lower than the expenditure in 1975-76, $ 1.72m. It would have required restrictions to be imposed in 1977 on either the number of students or benefits. I ask the Minister whether a policy decision had been made, before the appropriation for 1976-77, that there would be fewer students or lesser benefits for that year. If that did happen, was a subsequent policy decision made to reverse that decision? 
I know that this matter has been resolved and that apparently the students who applied and who were eligible for a grant under the scheme have received one. Those who were placed on the Tertiary Education Allowances Scheme as a temporary measure have now been taken off it. But let me go back to the explanation that was given in the explanatory notes. It was said that the original appropriation for 1976-77 of $1.5m was lower than the expenditure in 1975-76 of $1. 72m and would have required restrictions to be imposed in 1977 on either the number of students or benefits. Can we take it from what the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has just said that the estimate of students that was used for providing the funds available under this appropriation was less for 1976-77 than for 1975- 76. If that is the case, I think that this is a sound explanation because when the number of students who applied for the grant was noted and when it was found that the Budget appropriation was not sufficient, extra funds were made available. But was it the case that it was estimated that there would be fewer students in 1976- 77. 
Let me put the second question that I have. I think that the Minister will be able to explain the matters quite clearly. As one who is not too sure of how government finances are made available when there is a shortfall, as happened in this case, may I ask: In respect of those students who were placed on the Tertiary Education Allowances Scheme because sufficient funds were not available, how has money now been made available to place those students on the Aboriginal Study Grants Scheme and payments made retrospective? 
I have not been following this debate because I have been at a committee meeting, but when I came into the chamber and heard  Senator McLaren  and  Senator Georges  I felt duty bound to make some statement on the matters they raised. I support  Senator Georges'  remarks about what happened in Brisbane in the early pan of this year, in particular in January. There was a great deal of confusion amongst the young people at the time about whether they could register. This happened not only in Brisbane but in the provincial cities I visited in January. Young people came to my office complaining that they had been to an office of the Commonwealth Employment Service in Brisbane and had been allowed to register for employment but had not been allowed to fill in a form to claim unemployment benefit. At that stage there was confusion about whether the case to be heard by the High Court would be successful or not. Young people were not allowed to fill out a form to claim for unemployment benefit before the school vacation ended. A lot of them contended that they should be allowed the opportunity to fill out a claim for unemployment benefit. 
Of course, normally claims for unemployment benefit are filled out at the offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, which acts as an agent for the Department of Social Security. The forms are sent to the Department. But these young people were not even provided with a form. They were not allowed to fill out a form at the office of the Commonwealth Employment Service. I believe that this was not the policy of the Government but there was confusion within the offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service. When I insisted through the relevant person in Brisbane that they be allowed to fill out a form and they went back they were given a form to fill out to claim the unemployment benefit. I presume the forms were then forwarded to the Department of Social Security. 
I raise this matter because it is important to understand that whilst there may have been a policy directive or a policy that was understood, that youngsters could fill out forms and that a decision would be made subsequently with regard to their unemployment benefit entitlement, some people within the Department were not getting that message or were quite confused about it. At this stage I raise another matter which I have not raised before because I have had it resolved quite successfully. I presume that the matter will not occur again. It gives an illustration of how mistakes can be made by departmental officersmistakes which probably never come to the Minister's attention- which disadvantage people who are seeking benefits. 
-I hope that it will not happen again. However, I think it is important to point out that these things have happened. My attention was drawn to the case of a man who had been attending an office of the Commonwealth Employment Service in the near Brisbane area. He was a person for whom it was difficult to find employment- we know that there are many such people- but he was genuinely looking for work.  His  unemployment benefit was terminated. When we tried to find out why it had been terminated, it transpired that the reason was that he had been removed from the register of the Commonwealth Employment Service of those who were unemployed. He had been taken off the list of those unemployed and the Commonwealth Employment Service just refused to register him any longer. That situation was not acceptable, and certainly the Queensland State Director in Brisbane said that it was not acceptable. The man was put back on the register. If any decision is to be made as to whether such a person should continue to receive the unemployment benefit it should be done through the Department of Social Security and not the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
I reiterate that I support the comments made by  Senator Georges  about the situation in the Brisbane area and in provincial cities in Queensland. There was a great deal of confusion at that time- confusion not only amongst the youngsters but also, regrettably but understandably, amongst some of the officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
Proposed expenditure passed. 
Attorney-General's Department 
Proposed expenditure, $2,233,000. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
In view of the contents of the article entitled 'Unemployment "myths", says manufacturer', which appeared in the Brisbane  Sunday Mail  dated 20 February 1977, has the Brisbane furniture merchant,  Mr Jack  Diamond, sought assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the past year in his attempt to obtain staff for his Newmarket store. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 20 April 1 977: 
With reference to the Minister's reply to a question asked without notice by  Senator Colston  on 23 February 1977 (vide Senate  Hansard,  page 291 ), concerning stolen pension and social security cheques, has the investigation referred to by the Minister been completed. If so, (a) when was the investigation completed, (b) who carried out the investigation, (c) is there evidence to suggest that a group of Aboriginals in Brisbane has formed a co-operative to steal pension and social security cheques from letter boxes; if so, what are the details and what action has been taken against the group concerned, (d) will the Minister provide detailed information on (i) the number of cheques reported as stolen in Brisbane since 1 July 1976, (ii) the face value of the cheques, (iii) the Brisbane suburbs from which cheques have been reported as stolen, (iv) the number of prosecutions launched since 1 July 1976 over stolen cheques, (v) the number of successful prosecutions since 1 July 1976, (vi) the number of replacement cheques issued, (vii) how many of the stolen cheques referred to in (i) were reported as stolen from letter boxes and (viii) with reference to the reply to part (iv), how many prosecutions against Aboriginals were launched, and (e) what further action does the Minister intend taking following the investigation that has been carried out. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
1 ) How many announcements have appeared in the Australian Government  Gazelle  announcing the release of a draft environmental impact statement in each year since the proclamation of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. 
What was the date of each announcement and the subject matter. 
Which local, State and national newspapers have carried the announcements concerned, and how many advertisements have appeared in each newspaper concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's press release dated 27 March 1 977, entitled ' Health Program Grants for Evaluative Research and Development', why was it necessary to establish an advisory committee within the Department of Health to 'look for ways of getting better value for the nation's increasing health expenditure' when the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare is currently conducting an evaluation of the adequacy of Australian health and welfare services. 
In the Brisbane  Telegraph  of 24 November last year there was a report of an attack made by the Premier of Queensland on not only the current Federal Government but also the previous Federal Government. I would like to Quote part of that report which was headed 'Sim islands lash by Joh '. It reads: 
More than $1 million had been spent by federal governments in an attempt to swing Torres Strait islander support away from Queensland, the Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  said today. 
It had not worked and on top of that there was little to show for the investment. 
It is time there was an investigation into the whole financial mess, 'he said. 

 Mr BjelkePetersen said a cooperative headed by island representative  Mr George  Mye, who was based on Murray Island, had received $688,000 in federal money but had only three houses to show for it. 
Another group, the Torres Strait Co-operative Ltd received just under $250,000 and also had little to show for it. 

 Mr Bjelke-Petersen said he was not surprised at allegations being made about Queensland under-mining attempts by the Federal Government to negotiate a new seabed line between Australia and Papua New Guinea. 
The article then went on to make further comments. In one part  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  was reported as also attacking the Papua New Guinea 
Foreign Affairs Minister. Following that article in the  Telegraph  I put a question on notice on 30 November last year. The question was No. 1467 and it read as follows: 

 Senator COLSTON: To ask the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs- Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in the Brisbane  Telegraph  dated 24 November 1976, in which the Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  is quoted as making severe criticisms of Commonwealth expenditure in the Torres Strait region since December 1972; if so,  (a)  has 'more than $ l million been spent by Federal Government in an attempt to swing Torres Strait Islanders support away from Queensland', as claimed by the Premier;  (b)  nas the Murray Island Co-operative built only 3 houses with $688,000 provided by the Commonwealth; if so. what are the details; (c) has the Torres Strait Co-operative Ltd 'little to show' for the $250,000 provided by the Commonwealth; if so, what are the details;  (a)  if any, or all, of the allegations made by the Queensland Premier are incorrect, what action does the Minister intend taking to ensure that the Queensland Premier desists from making allegations that are untrue and injurious to the aims of Commonwealth expenditure in the Torres Strait Islands; and  (e)  has the Queensland Premier made similar allegations in the past about Commonwealth expenditure in the Torres Strait Islands; if so, (i) what are the details, (ii) were the allegations in questions subsequently refuted in detail by the Australian Government, and (iii) does the Minister intend taking any further action concerning the Queensland Premier's call for an investigation into Commonwealth expenditure in the Torres Strait Island. 
As I did not receive an answer to that question I would not be surprised if the Government was hoping that the question would be lost off the notice paper after Parliament was prorogued. Nevertheless I replaced the question upon notice after Parliament was prorogued and subsequently re-opened. It became question No. 5 on the notice paper after I had placed it on notice on 8 March 1977. Question No. 5 is identical to the previous question that I placed on notice on 30 November. I have still not received a reply to that question after 6 months. I believe that 6 months is too long a period to have to wait for an answer to a question such as the one I have placed on the notice paper. I ask the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  who in the this chamber represents the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs whether it is possible for a reply to be given to my question before the rising of Parliament at the end of this session. 
I think that my question is of special importance because Thursday Island will be celebrating its centenary from 16 to 23 July this year. The Queensland Premier has announced his intention to visit the Island during this period. If some of the allegations he made in November last year were incorrect I would hope that he does not make similar incorrect allegations when he is on Thursday Island for these celebrations. I would be grateful if I could receive a reply to my question, bearing in mind the length of time it has been on the notice paper. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 March 1977: 
1 ) With reference to the upgrading of Proserpine Airport, what expenditure will be incurred by (a) Ansett Airlines of Australia, (b) the Commonwealth Government, (c) the Proserpine Shire Council, and (d) the Queensland Government. 
) Will expenditure be incurred by any other body of persons not mentioned in ( 1 ). If so, what will be the amount of this expenditure. 
On what will the expenditure in (1) and (2) be incurred. 
Will the Proserpine Shire Council be reimbursed by the Commonwealth or any other body for any expenditure; if so, what are the details. 
How many flights have been made in and out of Proserpine Airport over the last five years by (a) Ansett Airlines of Australia, (b) subsidiaries of Ansett Airlines of Australia, (c) Trans Australia Airlines, and (d) any other airline. 
What has been the annual cost of maintaining Proserpine Airport for each financial year since the Commonwealth assumed responsibility for the Airport. 
What is the estimated annual cost of maintaining the Proserpine Airport following its extension. 
How are Commonwealth costs for Proserpine Airport to be recovered and what is the estimated annual recovery after the airport is extended. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in the Department of Administrative Services since 1 July 1970. 
By branch, for each year from 1970 to 1976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first year apprentices engaged in each branch of the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 20 April 
1977: 
1 ) What was the estimated total cost of the visit to West Germany by the Prime Minister's wife to officially launch an Australian container ship. 
2 ) What are the details of the trip. 
Why was it necessary for  Mrs Fraser  to perform this function, rather than the wife of the Australian Ambassador to West Germany or some other Australian who was then currently in West Germany. 
What other official functions did  Mrs Fraser  perform during her visit. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 4 May 1977: 
Has the Government taken action to investigate the claim that the Australian Meat Board has paid more than $750,000 to a Washington law firm to lobby for the Australian meat industry in the United States, referred to in an article by John Hamilton in the  Courier-Mail  dated 27 April 1977. If so, (a) what investigations have been undertaken, (b) what have the investigations shown, and (c) what further action is the Minister taking as a result of the investigations. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
What is the Budget allocation for the Department of Finance. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in the Brisbane  Telegraph  dated 24 November 1976, in which the Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  is quoted as making severe criticisms of Commonwealth expenditure in the 
Torres Strait region since December 1972. If so. (a) has more than Sim been spent by Federal Goverment in an attempt to swing Torres Strait Islanders support away from Queensland', as claimed by the Premier: (b) has the Murray Island Co-operative built only 3 houses with $688,000 provided by the Commonwealth; if so, what are the details; (c) has the Torres Strait Co-operative Ltd 'little to show' for the $250,000 provided by the Commonwealth, if so. what are the details: (d) if any, or all, of the allegations made by the Queensland Premier are incorrect, what action does the Minister intend taking to ensure that the Queensland Premier desists from making allegations that ure untrue, and injurious to the aims of Commonwealth expenditure in the Torres Strait Islands; and (e) has the Queensland Premier made similar allegations in the past about Commonwealth expenditure in the Torres Strait Islands: if so (i) what are the details (ii) were the allegations in question subsequently refuted in detail by the Australian Government, and (iii) does the Minister intend taking any further action concerning the Queensland Premier's call for an investigation into Commonwealth expenditure in the Torres Strait Islands. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) What action does the Minister intend taking against medical practitioners who refuse to treat patients who arc insured with Medibank. 
Is the New South Wales Health Commission currently compiling a dossier on medical practitioners who refuse to treat patients who are insured with Medibank. If so, (a) will the Minister be seeking a copy of this dossier and (b ) arc any other States compiling similar lists or planning to do so. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
Did the Minister state, in reply in Question No. 1466 asked by  Senator Colston  concerning Queensland trading rights for the Australian National Line (Senate  Hansard.  15 February 1977, page 43), that 'the Queensland Minister for Transport has conveyed to the Minister for Transport the Queensland Government's decision to take action to permit the Australian National Line to undertake the carriage intrastate by sea of cars, utilities, trucks, tractors, caravans, boats, earthmoving equipment, agricultural implements, and overdimensional loads which cannot be carried by rail'. If so, how can the Minister account for the Queensland Premier's response to a question on notice in the Queensland Parliament on 16 March 1977 (Queensland  Hansard,  page 2432), in which  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  stated that 'while it is true that agreement in principle has been reached between the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments on the entry of the Australian National Line into certain areas of intra-state trade, the question of the goods, commodities and methods encompassed is still a matter of Government policy and 1 cannot enlighten the honourable member further at this juncture '. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Question No. 642 concerning Aboriginal hearing defects (Senate  Hansard,  3 June 1976, page 2387), what has been the result of consideration of further research programs aimed at improving the effectiveness of treatment measures in the Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 4 May 1 977: 
With respect to the Prime Minister's reply to Senate question No. 188 concerning the financing and co-ordination of fire brigades, will the Treasurer provide details of his reply to the submission from the Insurance Council of Australia, dated 24 November 1976. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Are persons who left school in 1976, and who are denied unemployment benefit until the commencement of the 1977 school year, now entitled to claim payment of unemployment benefit for the period they were denied benefit. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Will the Department of Social Security be processing all claims for unemployment benefit as they are received from persons who leave school in November and December 1977 and who lodge claims between November 1977 and February 1978. If not. why not. 
-My question is to the Minister for Social Security. By way of preface, I state that on 25 May 1977 1 asked the following question upon notice: 
Will the Department of Social Security be processing all claims for unemployment benefit as they are received from persons who leave school in November and December 1977 and who lodge claims between November 1977 and February 1978? If not, why not? 
On 3 1 May the Minister replied as follows: 
See answer to question No. 94 1 . 
As the question and answer to question No. 941 related to 1976 school leavers who sought employment in 1977, the answer given to my question about 1977 school leavers does not seem to be relevant. I therefore again ask the Minister, this time without notice: Will the Department of Social Security be processing all claims for the unemployment benefit as they are received from persons who leave school in November and December 1 977 and who lodge claims between November 1977 and February 1978? If not, why not? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
For each State and Territory, how many (a) officers, and (b) staff were there in (i) non-metropolitan and (ii) metropolitan areas as at 1 April 1975, I April 1976 and 1 April 1977. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1 977: 
) Is a person who has holiday pay and/or long service leave due, but who is not using such holiday pay or long service leave at the time of onset of an illness, eligible to receive sickness benefit or must that person use his or her holiday pay and /or long service leave before being eligible. 
If holiday pay and/or long service leave must first be used before sickness benefit is payable, under what section of the Social Services Act is such a determination made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 3 1 March 1 977: 
How many persons are currently receiving assistance in each State and Territory under (a) theNational Employment Training Scheme, (b) the Community Youth Support Scheme, (c) the Special Incentive for Youth Employment Training Scheme, (d) the National Apprenticeship Assistance Scheme, and (e) the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprenticeship Full-Time Training Scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Did a training scheme for unemployed youth, sponsored by the Blacktown Youth Council in New South Wales, nearly collapse prior to its commencement as a result of the Federal Government delaying funding for the scheme. If so, (a) under what Federal Government program has the scheme been funded, (b) why was there a delay in the funding, (c) have there been any similar instances of delays in providing funds for similar schemes, and (d) has the Minister taken any action to ensure that delays in providing finance after approval of grants do not occurin future. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
What percentage of the (a) total workforce, (b) male workforce and (c) female workforce is 21 years of age and under in each State and Territory of Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
Do regional offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service monitor their effectiveness with the aid of the estimate of the workforce in each employment district. If so, (a) who prepares these estimates, and how are they prepared, (b) how often are the estimates updated, and (c) what is the estimated workforce in each employment district in Australia at the present time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Have any Commonwealth contracts been let to Nema Holdings Limited, since 1 1 November1975. If so, what are the details. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. During question time today I asked the Minister the following question without notice: 
Will the Department of Social Security be processing all claims for the unemployment benefit as they are received from persons who leave school in November and December 1977 and who lodge claims between November 1977 and February 1978? If not, why not? 
In reply to that question the Minister suggested that the question should be placed on notice. Therefore I ask: Can the Senate reasonably infer from the Minister's reply that she refuses to answer that question without notice? If that is the case, why is it so? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister. If so, (a) what are they, (b) who are bankers for each authority and (c) which, if any, of the authorities may be termed ' statutory authorities of a business nature '. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What action has the Attorney-General taken to investigate claims by  Colonel John  Moloney that Government security agents have been 'tapping' telephones at the 'Aboriginal Embassy' in Mugga Way, Canberra. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
What is the Budget allocation for the Department of the Treasury. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
How much of the Department's budget allocation for 1 976-77 has been expended to date. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Did the Governor-General visit Lizard Island in north Queensland at any time in 1 976. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
When does the Minister expect the review of Medibank bulk-billing arrangements to be completed. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What would be an appropriate Budget deficit at the present stage of the recession in the Australian economy. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) What statutory authorities come under the control of the Treasurer. 
What is the name, occupation, date and term of appointment and remuneration of each holder of public office in each authority. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. The Minister may recall a question on notice which was asked by a member of the House of Representatives to which he answered in effect that the Grants Commission in its assessment of the special grant of $27m made to Queensland in 1974-75 included a component of $7,085,000 which represented the loss incurred by the Brisbane City Council's urban bus services. Is he aware that the Queensland Government has refused to remit the $7m to the Brisbane City Council, thus causing grave financial difficulties for the Council and having obvious harmful consequences for public transport in Brisbane. Can the Minister advise whether he or the Federal Government can take any action to ensure that the Federal funds made available for Brisbane City Council bus services can be passed on to that Council? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to question No. 1646 concerning rental of Aboriginal housing in Queensland, can the Minister advise if the Queensland Government provides the Australian Government with audited or non-audited details of funds accrued from rental of Aboriginal housing. If so, what amount of the rental was (a) retained, (b) expended on repairs, (c) expended on maintenance, and (d) expended on the provision of additional housing for each year since 1969-70. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March: 
1 ) What day is designated as National Aboriginal Day in 1977. 
Has the Minister received a submission from the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee requesting that National Aboriginal Day be declared a public holiday in Australia. If so, (a) what are the details and (b) what reply has the Minister given to the submission. 
What financial and administrative assistance will be provided by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for the celebration of National Aboriginal Day in 1 977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
What action does the Minister intend taking, if any, either through his own Department or in conjunction with the Queensland Government, or other Federal Departments, as a result of the study conducted by a team led by  Dr Knud  Larsen, Visiting Professor of Psychology at the University of Queensland, which apparently found significant rates of discrimination against Aboriginals in Townsville in the fields of employment and housing. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) What are the details of the grant made to the Eidsvold Aboriginal and Community Development Association on 28 February 1977 to enable the erection of 3 houses for the Association. 
2 ) What is the expected cost of the erection of each house. 
When did the Association present the submission seeking the funding assistance concerned. 
Were any terms and conditions applied to the grant at the time of approval. If so, what are the details. 
Has the Association actually received the funds. If so, when. 11 not. why not. 
Has construction of any or all ofthe houses commenced. If so, when. If not, why not. 
7) Has the Eidsvold Shire Council given approval for the erection of the dwellings. If so, when was approval given. If not, why not. 
How and when were tenders called for the erection of the dwellings. 
How many tenders were received, and what were the details 01each. 
10) Which tender was finally accepted, and what is the full address of the firm concerned. 
Were any local firms unsuccessful in their tenders for the project. If so, why were local construction firms not given preference for this project. 
12 ) Who made the decision on the successful tender. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Senate question No. 80 concerning future funding arrangements for the Australian Assistance Plan (Senate  Hansard,  17 March 1977, page 325), can the Minister provide details of the decision reached by each State Government concerning the future operations ofthe Australian Assistance Plan. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 April 1 977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Senate question No. 46 concerning  Mr Reg  Worthy, (a) was  Mr Worthy  in ill health during much of his posting as Regional Director of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Queensland, (b) what (i) sick leave and (ti) other leave did  Mr Worthy  take whilst he was Regional Director in Queensland, (c) when was  Mr Worthy  appointed to the Queensland position, (d) when was  Mr Worthy  appointed Regional Director, South Eastern Region, and (e) was  Mr Worthy's  removal from the position of Regional Director in Queensland largely due to health reasons. If so, how is  Mr Worthy  able to undertake similar duties as Regional Director, South Eastern Region. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
1 ) What action has been taken by (a) the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and, (b) Aboriginal Hostels Limited to investigate claims relating to Elan Hostel attributed to  Mr Peter  Johnson, M.P., Federal Liberal Member for Brisbane, in the article entitled 'M.P. Calls Aboriginal Hostel a "Brothel" ' which appeared in the  Courier-Mail  dated 24 February 1977. 
What action has been taken by (a) the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and, (b) Aboriginal Hostels Limited with respect to the administration of Elan Hostel following any investigations that may have been undertaken following  Mr Johnson  's comments. 
Did  Senator N.  Bonner recommend to the board of Aboriginal Hostels Limited that the company take legal action against  Mr Johnson,  as he stated lie would in the  Courier-Mail  article concerned. If so, will the company be taking legal action against  Mr Johnson. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
With respect to the Black Community Housing Service, the Brisbane Tribal Council, and the Aborigines and Islanders Community Health Service, all based in Brisbane, can the Minister advise: 
1 ) what funding each organisation has received in the past from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs; 
what is the function and structure of each organisation; 
is each organisation wholly dependent on Commonwealth funding. If not, what are the details; 
how much ofthe Department's grant for 1976-77 has been expended by each organisation to the present time; 
is the Department wholly satisfied with the financial management of each organisation. If not, why not; 
have any complaints concerning the management or operation of any of the 3 organisations been directed to the Department in the past 6 months. If so, what are the details, and what action is being taken to investigate the complaints; 
have the organisations presented submissions seeking funding assistance for 1977-78. If so, what are the details, and what decisions have been taken by the Department with respect to the submissions concerned; and 
is the Department wholly satisfied with the operations of each organisation. If not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
With respect to part (6) ofthe Minister's reply to question No. 595 concerning the Bamyili Housing Association (Senate  Hansard,  17 August 1976) has the investigation into the affairs of the Bamyili Housing Association been completed. If so (a) when was the investigation completed, and (b) what action has the Minister taken as a result of the investigation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1 977: 
Which of the recommendations contained in the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs entitled 'Aboriginal Unemployment: Special Work Projects' have been implemented. 
Which of the recommendations have not been implemented and for what reason. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that lack of travelling money within certain regions of the Department of Transport has minimised the servicing of navigation aids, and essential travelling by departmental aviation examiners and airworthiness surveyors. 
What does the Minister propose to do to remedy this situation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 4 May 1977: 
Will the Minister, as a matter of urgency, investigate the need for an Aboriginal hostel in Rockhampton, as advocated by  Mr N.  P. Warner in the Rockhampton  Morning Bulletin  on 29 April 1977 and supported by the Mayor of Rockhampton (Alderman Rex Pilbeam) on Australian Broadcasting Commission television news ofthe same day. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Senate Question No. 66 concerning statements criticising the  This Day Tonight  program on Cedar Bay: 
why did the Minister undertake investigations into this matter if he feels it inappropriate to assume an editorial position, 
under what circumstances would the Minister assume an 'editorial position ' on a matter such as this, 
why did the Minister assume an editorial position when originally replying to the question without notice from the Member for Brisbane on 9 September 1976 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  page 859 ) and 
if the Minister believes he should not assume an editorial position on matters of this nature why did he either: 
invite the Member for Brisbane to ask the original question on 9 September 1 976, or 
agree to the Member for Brisbane asking the question prior to his actually asking it. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Has the Minister either (a) written to, (b) presented a submission to, or (c) had discussions with the Public Service Board at any time since 1 January 1 977, on the subject of salary and entitlements of electorate assistants to Members of the Australian Parliament. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Did  Mr Justice  Kirby,  Chairman  of the Law Reform Commission, at the Commission 's recent hearings in Brisbane on Complaints Against Police, express disappointment that the Commonwealth Police Force had not presented a formal submission to the Commission. If so, (a) what are the details and (b) what is the Minister doing, if anything, to rectify the situation. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to a Question asked without notice by  Senator Colston  on Queensland Electoral Redistribution (Senate  Hansard,  5 May 1977, page 1180), what further information can the Minister provide following his promised investigation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister. If so (a) what are they, (b) who are the bankers for each authority and (c) which, if any, of the authorities may be termed 'statutory authorities of a business nature'. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees, (c) other employees, were in the Minister's Depanment for each month since and including November 1 975. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What was the total Commonwealth funding provided to local government authorities in each State, and for Australia as a whole, for each financial year since 1 970-7 1 . 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) What is the current staffing establishment in the Department of the Treasury. 
How many Divisions are included within the establishment of the Department and what is the title of each Division and the function ascribed to each Division. 
How many (a) First Division officers (b) Second Division officers (c) Third Division officers and (d) Fourth Division officers are there in each Division named in (2 ). 
What is the role and aims of the Department ofthe Treasury. 
When was the Department of the Treasury created and what ate the details. 
Sentor Cotton-The  Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The question has been interpreted as relating to the central organisation of the Department of the Treasury and not to organisations such as the Office of the Australian Government Actuary and Life Insurance Commissioner, the Office of the Insurance Commissioner, the Australian Bureau of Statistics, the Taxation Office and the Federal Valuation Boards and Taxation Boards of Review, for which the Treasurer is the responsible Minister. 
1 ) As at 3 1 March 1 977 there were 320 staff employed in the central organisation of the Department ofthe Treasury. 
The central organisation of the Treasury comprises 5 Divisions. The title and function of each Division are as follows:- 
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DIVISION 
This Division's responsibilities involve the formulation of policy advice, preparation of policy proposals and administration of legislation in areas of banking, non-bank financial corporations, the general and life insurance industries, company finances, and securities markets. The Division has similar responsibilities in relation to exchange control and other policy areas in respect of international financial transactions of both a trade and capital nature, including controls on overseas borrowings, investment overseas by Australian residents and export finance and credit insurance. 
FOREIGN INVESTMENT DIVISION 
This Division is responsible for providing advice on matters relating to foreign ownership and control of Australia's resources and industries including foreign investment proposals and foreign takeovers of Australian businesses. 
GENERAL FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC POLICY DIVISION 
This Division is responsible for providing advice on the broader aspects of domestic economic and financial policy. Its main responsibility lies in the field of general economic management, where the Division is involved in a continuous assessment of current economic trends and prospects and the provision of advice relating to the framing of policies appropriate to these conditions. Important areas of responsibility include budgetary policy, monetary policy, general taxation policy and research into Australia's long-term potentialities for economic growth. 
OVERSEAS ECONOMIC RELATIONS DIVISION 
This Division is responsible for providing advice on matters relating to external financial and economic matters including developments in the international economy, the international monetary system, movements in exchange rates and Australia's balance of payments position, exchange rate policy, policy on capital flows to and from Australia and the disposition of Australia's international reserves; relations with the International Monetary Fund, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and its affiliates and the Asian Development Bank; the economic and development policy aspects of Australia's membership of various other international organizations including the UN and OECD and economic and commercial relations with other countries; economic policy aspects of overseas aid and development matters; and Treasury interest and responsibilities in regard to Australia's external territories and Papua New Guinea. 
REVENUE LOANS AND INVESTMENT DIVISION 
This Division is responsible for providing advice on general policy matters relating to the provision of financial assistance to the States and local authorities including the income tax sharing arrangements and the sources of State taxation and other revenue. In addition, the Division is responsible for advising on matters relating to the raising, redemption or conversion of Australian Government loans in Australia and overseas and the general administration of the Financial Agreement and the Gentlemen's Agreement and the operations of the National Debt Commission. 
The central organisation of the Depanment of the Treasury includes one first Division officer (Permanent Head) and 2 Second Division officers (Deputy Secretaries) who are not pan of any Division named in ( 2 ). A breakdown of the remaining staff employed at 31 March 1977 is as follows: 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) What is the current staffing establishment in the Department of Finance. 
How many Divisions are included within the establishment of the Department and what is the title of each Division, and the function ascribed to each Division. 
How many (a) First Division officers and (b) Second Division officers (c) Third Division officers and (d) Fourth Division officers, are there in each Division named in (2). 
What is the role and aims of the Department of Finance. 
When was the Department of Finance created and what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 1 1 March 1977: total railway expenditure in 1975-76 was approximately 0.6 per cent as shown in the following table: 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
What, if any, consideration has the Government given to the proposal for the establishment of a natural disaster research unit, made by the Member for Hawker, on 6 May 1 976 (vide House of Representatives  Hansard,  page 2005 ). 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
With respect to the Treasurer's reply to Senate Question No. 930, has the Queensland Government formally requested the Australian Government to provide additional funds for capital works to relieve unemployment in Queensland, as was foreshadowed by the Queensland Treasurer in the  Courier-Mail  dated 20 August 1976. If so, (a) when was the request received, (b) what assistance has been requested, and (c) when will a decision be taken by the Federal Government on the Queensland submission. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
Has the Government received a formal submission from D. M. Minerals, a partnership of Dillingham Constructions Pty Ltd and Murphyores Incorporated Pty Ltd, seeking compensation for the closure of the Company's sand mining operations on Fraser Island. If so, (a) what are the details ofthe submission, (b) who signed the submission, (c) when was the submission received, (d) how is the submission being assessed, (e) has the Queensland Government supported the submission, and (f) when is it expected that a decision will be made by the Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 3 May 1977: 
Have there been any recent changes in the conditions pertaining to the granting of Maternity and/or Paternity leave for members ofthe Australian Public Service. If so, what are the details and what are the current conditions under which such leave is granted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
Has the Queensland Government made formal submission to the Federal Government concerning the restoration of inland and northern air services. If so, (a) what are the details, (b) what response has the Federal Government made to the submission and (c) what funds, if any. have so far been provided for the project. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 April 1977: 
Has the Queensland Government made formal submission to the Federal Government concerning an international airport for Townsville. 
If so (a) what are the details (b) what response has the Federal Government made to the submission, and (c) what funds, if any, have so far been provided for the project. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Has the Queensland Government made formal submission to the Federal Government concerning the Mary River Barrage. If so, (a) what are the details, (b) what response has the Federal Government made to the submission and, (c) what funds, if any, have so far been provided for the project. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 May 1 977: 
Has the Government considered implementating a reduction in the 50 percent prescribed requirement for savings banks, a step suggested by the Director of the Australian 
Bankers' Association,  Mr Ron  Cameron, quoted in the Financial Review, dated 5 May 1977. If so, why has such a step not been implemented. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
Did the Queensland Premier seek an additional $20m for road works at the last Premier's Conference. If so, with what result. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
1 ) What are the details of current curfew arrangements for Australian airports. 
Is there any plan to review these arrangements in the light of criticism levelled at airport curfews by the Queensland Minister for Tourism,  Mr Hodges,  reported in the  Courier-Mail dated  19 May 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
Has the Commonwealth Government advised the States that there will be increased funds available for State road programs 'once the economy has stabilised', as was claimed by the Queensland Minister for Main Roads,  Mr Hinze,  quoted in the  Courier-Mail  dated 19 May 1977. If so, (a) when were the States given this advice; (b) by whom were the States given the advice: (c) is it likely that substantial increases in funds for roads will be available in the next six months. If so, what are the details: and (d ) what is the Minister's definition of a 'stabilised economy'. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
Has the Federal Government received detailed cost estimates for the proposed 1982 Commonwealth Games in Brisbane. If not, what further information is required before a final decision can be made by the Federal Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 March 1 977: 
What information can the Minister provide concerning the usage of a system of 'coded insults' referred to in 'The Overflow Column' of the  National Times  dated 17-22 January 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
Does the Treasurer accept recent statements by the Prime Minister that printing money is inflationary. 
What are the details of the level of money printed by the Reserve Bank in 1 976 at the request ofthe Treasury. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
Has the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission purchased Freehold Portion 15, Parish of Meunga and two Special Leases over parts of State Forest Reserve No. 756, Parish of Meunga, in Queensland. If so, (a) when was the purchase transacted, (b) by whom was the purchase transacted, (c) what was the cost of the purchase, (d) what plans does the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission have for the land in question, (e) what are the terms of the Special Leases involved, (f) what professional advice did the Commission seek before proceeding with the purchase, (g) are the purchases in direct conflict with the Queensland Government's policies on (i) the purchase of land or (ii) Aboriginal Affairs, (h) has the freehold portion been registered in the name of the Commission; if so, when was the registration undertaken and by whom, (i) have the transfers of the Special Leases been lodged with the Queensland Department of Lands for registration; if so, (i) when, and by whom, were they lodged and (ii) has the registration been completed; if not, why (j) how long does registration of transfers of Special Leases by the Queensland Department of Lands usually take, ( k ) what action has the Minister taken to resolve any conflict between the Queensland Government and the Commonwealth Government over this matter, and ( 1 ) are there any similar conflict over land purchases by the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission in Queensland at the present time; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 16 March 1 977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Question No. 198 on the broadcasting of election speeches and political advertisements (vide House of Representatives'  Hansard,  2 June 1976, page 2882), can the Minister provide similar details for the past two State elections in Queensland. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Question No. 451 on political broadcasting (vide Senate  Hansard,  18 August 1 976, page 1 62 ), can the Minister provide similar details for the past two State elections in Queensland. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1 977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Senate Question No. 65 concerning the Social Security Appeals Tribunal, can the Minister advise the following details for each State and Territory for the five quarters up to and including the quarter ended 3 1 December 1976 for each category of appeal listed in Question No. 65, (a) how many appeals were received directly by the Department of Social Security, (b) how many of those appeals were directed to the Social Security Appeals 
Tribunal for investigation, (c) how many appeals of those listed in (a) were upheld after investigation within the Department itself, (d) how many of those appeals listed in (b) were disallowed by Tribunals, and (e) how many of those appeals listed in ( b ) were upheld by Tribunals. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to a question without notice asked by  Senator Colston  concerning Social Security Appeals Tribunals (Senate  Hansard,  5 October 1976, page 974), what action has been taken as a result of the Minister's investigation of the functions of the Social Security Appeals Tribunals. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that  Dr J.  A. Allen,  Chairman  of the Board of Advanced Education and formerly  Deputy  Vice-Chancellor of the University of Newcastle, has predicted a decline by universities and a reduction of institutions of higher education in Australia because of general restraint on Commonwealth funds for post-secondary education, including a possible freeze on funds by the Commonwealth. 
Does the Minister agree with  Dr Allen's  prediction. 
Will the Minister comment on  Dr Allen's  suggestion that in future there could be a return to the involvement of the States in partial funding of higher education, possibly in the form of ad hoc rescue provisions; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
Has the Queensland Premier stated that his Government will not co-operate with the proposed Human Rights Commission. If so (a) what reasons has  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  given for his decision, (b) when is the Commission likely to commence operations, (c) what will be the role and structure of the Commission, (d) have any other State Governments adopted a similar attitude to the Commission as that taken by the Queensland Government; if so, what are the details, and (e) will the Commission be able to commence operations without the support of one or more State governments. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Is it a fact that the Federal Government's new scheme of family allowances, which was introduced in 1976 to replace child endowment, 'effectively means higher taxation for most family men', as was claimed on page 100 of  Taxpayer,  the national journal of the Taxpayers Association, dated 23 April 1 977. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 25 May 1 977: 
Has the Queensland Government made formal submission to the Federal Government concerning the Bundaberg Irrigation Project. If so, (a) what are the details, (b) what response has the Federal Government made to the submission and, (c) what funds, if any, have so far been provided for the project. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) How many single fathers are there in (a) Australia at present and (b) each State and Territory at present. 
How many single fathers are currently in receipt of special benefit in (a) Australia and (b) each State and Territory. 
How many claims for special benefit by single fathers have been rejected by the Department of Social Security in each month since June 1976. 
What assistance, if any, is currently available from the Department of Social Security to single fathers, apart from special benefit. 
Are proposals for expanding assistance to single fathers currently being considered by the Income Security Review Group. If so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
With respect to the reply provided by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations to Senate Question No. 320 concerning persons registered as unemployed with the Commonwealth Employment Service, can the Minister advise why the information requested in part 3 (i), (ii) and (iv) and part 4 is not available. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
What is  Mr Harry  Giese 's current position within the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
Is the Minister aware that the  President  ofthe Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders,  Mr J.  McGuiness, has called for the removal of  Mr Giese  from his present position. If so, what action is the Minister taking. 
Has  Mr Giese  undertaken any activities, either in the Department's time or outside of his departmental duties, which could in any way be construed as attempting to undermine Federal Parliament's land rights legislation , as has been claimed by  Mr McGuiness.  If so, what are the details. 
Is  Mr Giese  an official or unofficial adviser to the Majority Leader in the Northern Territory,  Dr G.  Letts. If so, (a) what are the details and (b) was the Minister's approval sought prior to  Mr Giese  agreeing to accept this position. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 25 May 1 977: 
Has the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations declared any 'non-work areas' in Australia for the purpose of determining eligibility for unemployment benefit, in which an unemployed person must be a resident of that area for a specific period of time prior to becoming eligible for unemployment benefit. If so, (a) what are the details, (b) what is the specific time limit involved, (c) which areas in Australia currently are so designated, (d) on what basis were the areas so designated and (e) on whose authority were the areas determined. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 27 May 1977: 
Is it a fact, as reported in the Brisbane  Sunday Sun  on 22 May 1977, that the Queensland Government has decided not to finance projects currently being conducted under the auspices of the Australian Assistance Plan after 30 June 1 977. If so, (a) what projects are currently funded under the Australian Assistance Plan in Queensland and (b) what alternative plans for funding of each of the programs listed in (a) have been made. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 3 June 1 977: 
1 ) What action, if any, is the Minister taking to investigate the recommendations of the report on the underprivileged and the law prepared by a committee of the Law Council of Australia, referred to in the Melbourne  Age  dated 27 May 1977, with a view to taking legislative action. 
When is it likely an announcement will be made on this subject by the Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
What are the full details of the way gradings are determined for Commonwealth Employment Service agencies (vide answers (4) and (5) to Question No 1476). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
What action has the Minister taken to investigate the possibility of locating a televion translator station at Herberton in Queensland. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Question No. 198 on the broadcasting of election speeches and political advertisements (vide House of Representatives  Hansard,  2 June 1976, page 2882), can the Minister provide similar details for the past two State elections in Queensland. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Question No. 451 on political broadcasting (vide Senate  Hansard,  18 August 1976, page 162), can the Minister provide similar details for the past two State elections in Queensland. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
Do many Aboriginal communities in central Australia not support the present Government policy with regard to education, as was suggested by John Edwards in the article entitled 'Aborigines now have Land Rights- but no Schools 'in the  National Times  dated 7 March 1977; if so, (a) what are the details, and (b) what action, if any, is the Minister taking to investigate the claims made in the newspaper article concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
With respect to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 23 (Senate  Hansard,  29 March 1977, page 607), 
what are the general details of the Commonwealth's proposals for increasing efficiency and reducing costs within the Queensland electricity system, 
what reasons did the Queensland Government provide for rejecting the Commonwealth's proposals, and 
does the Commonwealth intend making further proposals on this matter to the Queensland Government; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 28 April 1 977: 
With respect to the reply to Senate Question No. 270 concerning funds provided by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for road works provided by the 
Minister for Transport, will the Treasurer provide replies to Parts (4) and (5) of the original questions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 3 May 1977: 
1 ) Did the Pritchard Steam Power Company seek Federal Government funding assistance some two years ago, as was claimed in the television program on the energy crisis on  Four Comers  on 22 April 1977; if so (a) what were the details of the Company' s submission (b) when was the submission received, and (c) what response has the company received to its submission? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 3 May 1 977: 
Has the Minister investigated allegations relating to the leaking of information from the Redcliffe Office of the Commonwealth Employment Service contained in  Senator Colston's  speech on the adjournment of the Senate on 31 March 1977(Hansard, page 760); if so, (a) what was the result of the investigations, and ( b) what action has the Minister taken as a result of the investigations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister; if so, (a) what are they; (b) who are the bankers for each authority and (c) which, if any, of the authorities may be termed 'statutory authorities of a business nature'. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister; if so, (a) what are they, (b) who are the bankers for each authority and (c) which, if any, of the authorities may be termed statutory authorities of a business nature. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) Has the Foreign Investment Review Board approved the foreign investment proposal by Iwasaki Sangyo (Australia) Pty Ltd referred to in Question No. 277 (Senate  Hansard,  21 April 1977, page 939); if so, when was the proposal approved. 
Has the Foreign Investment Review Board approved any foreign investment proposals relating to the apparent recent purchase by Iwasaki Sangyo (Australia) Pty Ltd, reputedly for approximately $250,000, of 1676 acres of land at Yeppoon from Tropico Syndicate, in which the land developer John D. Booker is a partner; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees and (c) other employees were there in the Minister's Department for each month since and including November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees and (c) other employees were there in the Minister's department for each month since and including November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees and (c) other employees were there in the Minister's department for each month since and including November 1975. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
1 ) Has  Mr A.  M. Somlyay, Senior Private Secretary to the Minister for the Northern Territory, had personal stationery (letterheads, 'With Compliments' slips, identification cards, or any other personal stationery), with the Australian CoatofArms, prepared at Government expense; if so (a) what are the details, (b) who approved the printing of the stationery concerned and (c) what was the total cost involved. 
) Have ministerial staff" other than  Mr Somlyay  had personal stationery printed; of so, in each case (a) what are the details, (b) who approved the printing of the stationery and (c) what was the total cost involved. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Senate Question No. 763, what was the full text of the document concerned, as requested in pan (d) of the original question. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees and (c) other employees were there in the Prime 
Minister's Department for each month since and including November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) What funds has the Commonwealth Government provided, if any, to the Australian Inland Medical Service since 1970. 
Has the Federal Government declined any submissions seeking funding assistance for the Service since 1 1 November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
What plans does the Commonwealth Government currently have for the future administration of (a) the Family Court and (b) the Australian Legal Aid Office. 
Is the Attorney-General aware that the Queensland Justice Minister,  Mr Lickiss,  has publicly indicated that he favours a State takeover of the administration of the Family Court and the Australian Legal Aid Office: if so, (a) has the Queensland Government made a formal submission to the Commonwealth relating to either, or both, of these matters and, (b) have any other States indicated their views on either, or both, of these matters; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
Will the Minister provide a detailed list of (a) all preparations which have been removed from the Pharmaceutical Benefits List since 11 November 1975; and (b) all preparations which have been restricted in their availability on the Pharmaceutical Benefits List since 1 1 November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
Has the Federal Government given consideration to suggestions that part of the Medibank levy re-imbursements to the State of Queensland be allocated to the Australian Inland Medical Service to overcome operating losses by the Service; if so, (a) is the suggestion a practical proposition, and (b) what decision has the Government taken on this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 21 April 1977: 
1 ) What is the backlog of cases before the Family Law Court in each State. 
What is the estimated maximum time that a person who has an application before the court be required to wait before that case is heard. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
1 ) ls there likely to be no increase in coking coal exports to Japan until, at least, 1 98S. 
What quantity and value of coking coal has Australia exported to Japan in each of the last ten years. 
What percentage of the annual Australian exports of coking coal to Japan for each of the last ten years has come from Queensland. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
1 ) How many surveys of the number of Aboriginals employed in the Public Service have been completed since that detailed in the Minister's reply to question No. 143 (Senate  Hansard,  20 May 1976, page 1832). 
For each of the surveys detailed in part ( 1 ), how many Aboriginals were shown as employed in each Commonwealth department. 
Are statistics on Aboriginal employment available for each State Public Service in Australia. If so, how many Aboriginals were shown as employed in each State department for each survey since and including that for 1 October I97S. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
In relation to parts 5 and 6 of the answer to House of Representatives question No. 373 ( House of Representatives  Hansard  5 May 1977, pages 1679-1680), will the Minister justify why Ministers' electorate secretaries and electorate assistants have travel entitlements superior to those of similar staff of other senators or members. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
1 ) In relation to the answer to House of Representatives question No. 42 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  5 May 1977, page 1674), what were the circumstances which led to the decision of Medibank Private to select the Bank of New South Wales as its bankers. 
2 ) Are there any other statutory authorities responsible to the Minister. If so, (a) what are they, (b) who are the bankers for each authority and (c) which, if any, of the authorities may be termed 'statutory authorities of a business nature'. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Prime Minister; if so, (a) what are they, (b) who are the bankers for each authority and (c) which, if any, of the authorities may be termed 'statutory authorities of a business nature'. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister. If so, 
what are they, 
b ) who are the bankers for each authority and 
which, if any, of the authorities may be termed 'statutory authorities of a business nature '. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister; if so, (a) what are they, (b) who are bankers for each authority and (c) which, if any, of the authorities may be termed 'statutory authorities of a business nature'. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
Has the Queensland Government made formal submission to the Federal Government concerning restoration of the petrol subsidy in northern and western Queensland; if so (a) what are the details, (b) what response has the Federal Government made to the submission and (c) what funds, if any, have so far been provided for the project. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
What are the details of the current study of staffing requirements of the Depanment of Social Security by the Public Service Board, referred to in an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  dated 13 May 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Has the Government taken action to investigate the advantages of introducing an export incentive scheme; if so, (a) what are the details and (b) what decision has been reached. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
What is being done to salvage the sophisticated equipment left on the site of the tracking station near Gove Peninsula which was operational when Woomera was fully operational. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
Does the Prime Minister want to reduce the staff ceiling of the Australian Broadcasting Commission by approximately SOO next year, as was claimed in an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald dated  10 May 1977; if not, what staff ceiling limits are likely to apply to the Australian Broadcasting Commission next year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees and (c) other employees were there in the Minister's Depanment for each month since and including November 1575. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees and (c) other employees were there in the Minister's Department for each month since and including November 1975. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees were there in the Minister's depanment for each month since and including November 1 975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice on 25 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees and (c) other employees were there in the Minister's depanment for each month since and including November 1975. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 25 May 1 977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees and (c) other employees were there in the Minister's department for each month since and including November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees and (c) other employees were there in the AttorneyGeneral's Department for each month since and including November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees and (c) other employees were there in the Minister's department for each month since and including November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees and (c) other employees were there in the Minister's department for each month since and including November 1975. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees and (c); other employees were there in the Minister's department for each month since and including November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Do the areas of Capalaba, Birkdale and Thornside in Queensland have an unemployment rate in excess of (a) the Queensland average and (b) the Australian average. If so, will the Minister give consideration to establishing an office of the Commonwealth Employment Service in that area. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
Has the Department of Defence decided to defer an evaluation program for the replacement of the Mirage aircraft for the RAAF. If so, ( a) what are the details, ( b ) did the Department ask twelve companies to provide details of alternative aircraft by 1 February 1977. If so, why was it necessary to defer further consideration of replacement aircraft, (c) on whose authority was the deferral decided and (d) has Australia's reputation abroad been seriously damaged as a result of the decision, as was suggested in the newsletter  Inside Canberra,  dated 20 March 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Senate Question No. 32, can the Minister advise whether the Queensland Government ever insisted that any request for discussions between Federal and State public servants on Aboriginal affairs matters be channelled through the Queensland Premier between December 1972 and November 1975; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
With respect to the minute addressed to Employment Office Managers by the Acting Assistant Director, Employment Services, of the Minister's Department dated 27 January 1977, and headed 'Unemployment Benefit- Persons Residing on Aboriginal Communities', (a) how many over-printed QEMP101 applications have been received in Queensland to date, (b) how many of those applicants have been lapsed from the register as a result of answering the question 'are you prepared to work in another locality?' in the negative, and (c) how many of the persons listed in (b) have since been granted (i) unemployment benefit or (ii) special benefit by the Department of Social Security. 
-I present the following petition from 62 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble Petition respectfully showeth: 
That failure to purchase, at regular intervals, fine and important an works from around the world as they become available, seriously inhibits the growth of cultural and artistic education in this country, restricting us to an isolationist art background. 
That failure to purchase the Georges Braque painting, Le Grand Nu, now on offer to the National Gallery would badly set back a genuine attempt to secure a collection of twentieth century art in all its forms, in this case a fine example of cubist art. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government reconsider its decision regarding the purchase of the Georges Braque painting and release the moneys required for its acquisition, or give serious consideration to subsidising dollar for dollar the private donations being sent to the National Gallery for the purchase of this painting and all future works of importance, and, the establishment of an An Fund for this purpose. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to  Senator Withers  in his capacity either as Leader of the Government in the Senate or as Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. By way of preface, I mention that I have received a letter from  Mr Brian  Dodd, Press Secretary to the  Deputy  Prime Minister.  Mr Dodd  attached to his letter two draft Press releases about the Burdekin River Basin.  Mr Dodd  suggested that I might use the Press releases and even promised to send me more of this type of material. Due to the biased nature of the draft Press releases, I did not contemplate using them. Can the Minister inform me whether it is normal for  Mr Dodd  to write Press releases for the possible use of an Opposition senator? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
Has the Government fulfilled the promise, contained in part 3 (i) of the Liberal and National Country Parties' Aboriginal Affairs Policy dated 25 November 1975, namely, 'we will channel all future major expenditure on Aboriginal education, employment, housing, health and legal aid and similar services through a new account to be called The Aborigines' Entitlement Revenue Account. This account will replace the present Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account'; if so, what are the details; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 21 April 1977: 
Has the Government fulfilled the promise, contained in part 3 (ii) of the Liberal and National Country Parties' Aboriginal Affairs Policy dated 25 November 1975, namely 'in addition to making allocations to the Aboriginal Loans Commission, we will establish and make annual allocations to an Aborigines' Entitlement Capital Account. The funds contained in this account will be invested for the benefit of the Aboriginal people. The manner in which this account is to be administered and the income from it distributed will be determined after consultation with the Aboriginal people'; if so, what are the details; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1 977: 
Has the Government fulfilled the promise, contained in part 4 (i) of the Liberal and National Country Parties' Aboriginal Affairs Policy dated 25 November 1975, namely, appointment of additional Aborigines to liaison, advisory and training positions in such fields as education, health, and community development'; if so, what are the details; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1 977: 
Has the Government fulfilled the promise, contained in part 4 (ii) of the Liberal and National Country Parties' Aboriginal Affairs Policy dated 25 November 1975, namely, "the maintenance and, where appropriate, the expansion of Aborigine-managed  enterprises  and  services  such as Aboriginal Medical Services, Aboriginal Legal Services and details: if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 21 April 1977: 
Has the Government fulfilled the promise, contained in part 4 (iii) of the Liberal and National Country Parties' Aboriginal Affairs Policy dated 25 November 1975, namely, "the creation of a network of outback pre-schools to cater for the needs of Aboriginal and other Australian children side by side to actively involve their parents as well"; if so, what are the details; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
Has the Government fulfilled the promise, contained in part 4 (iv) of the Liberal and National Country Parties' Aboriginal Affairs Policy dated 25 November 1975, namely, "the expansion of bi-cultural education in those Northern Australian schools with predominantly Aboriginal enrolments"; if so, what are the details; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
Has the Government fulfilled the promise, contained in part 4 (v) of the Liberal and National Country Parties' Aboriginal Affairs Policy dated 25 November 1975, namely, the introduction of Aboriginal History and Culture as a full subject in the education programmes available' to all Australians from primary school in the education -programmes available to all Australians from primary school onwards'; if so, what are the details; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 21 April 1977: 
Has the Government fulfilled the promise, contained in part 4 (vi) of the Liberal and National Country Parties' Aboriginal Affairs Policy dated 25 November 1975, namely, 'a complete review of existing Aboriginal employment and training schemes in order to increase social and geographical mobility for those Aborigines who desire it'; if so, what are the details, if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1 977: 
Has the Government fulfilled the promise, contained in part 4 (vii) of, the Liberal and National Country Parties' Aboriginal Affairs Policy dated 25 November 1975, namely, the introduction of an experimental "work-out" program in rural secondary schools with high Aboriginal enrolments'; if so, what are the details; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
Has the Government fulfilled the promise, contained in part 4 (viii) of the Liberal and National Country Parties' Aboriginal Affairs Policy dated 25 November 1975, namely, "the establishment of a 'parent-educator' program among Aboriginal parents in capital cities"; if so, what are the details; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 21 April 1977: 
Has the Government fulfilled the promise, contained in pan 4 (ix) of the Liberal and Country Parties' Aboriginal Affairs Policy dated 25 November 1975, namely, "consultation with the Aboriginal people on appropriate ways of dealing with social problems such as alcohol and drug abuse ; if so, what are the details; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 25  May  1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister. If so, 
what are they 
b ) who are the bankers for each authority, and 
which, if any, of the authorities may be termed 'statutory authorities of a business nature '. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister, if so (a) what are they, (b) who are the bankers for each authority and (c) which, if any, of the authorities may be termed 'statutory authorities of a business nature '. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister; if so, (a) what are they, (b) who are the bankers for each authority and (c) which, if any, of the authorities may be termed 'statutory authorities of a business nature'. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister, if so: 
What are they 
b ) Who are bankers for each authority 
Which, if any, of the authorities may be termed Statutory Authorities of a business nature. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister; if so: 
What are they 
b ) Who are the bankers for each authority, and 
Which, if any, of the authorities may be termed statutory authorities of a business nature '. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister; if so, 
what are they; 
b ) who are the bankers for each authority; and 
which, if any, of the authorities may be termed statutory authorities of a business nature. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
Has the Queensland Government made formal submission to the Federal Government concerning the Townsville growth centre; if so, 
what are the details, 
what response has the Federal Government made to the submission and 
what funds, if any, have so far been provided for the project. 

 Senator Carrick: The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No formal submission has been made to the Commonwealth by the Queensland Government concerning the development of a growth centre at Townsville. 
The Premier of Queensland has written to the Prime Minister on a number of occasions seeking financial assistance through the Commonwealth's urban expansion and redevelopment programs. However, the Premier has not so far provided details as to how such financial assistance would be used, nor whether it was required specifically for growth centre development. 
and (c) In view of the answer to question (a) questions (b) and (c) do not apply. 
Rental by Commonwealth of Premises in Brisbane (Question No. 920) 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Question No. 195 concerning rental of the building 'Professional Suites' in Brisbane (Senate  Hansard,  21 April 1977, page 930), can the Minister advise- 
1 ) Who are the 1 8 owners in the consortium mentioned in part (e) of the Minister's reply; 
Why does the deed to the property at 138 Albert Street, Brisbane, held at the Titles Office in Brisbane, show title vested in Marie Cassimatis Marie Marendy Nicholas Politis, Athana Politis and Evangeline Cassimatis 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Question No. 1 183 (Senate  Hansard,  1 December 1976) and to Question No. 6 (Senate  Hansard,  31 March 1977, page 765), is the subject of additional funds for urban development programs in Queensland currently under negotiation between the Federal Government and the Queensland Government; if so, what are the details; if not, why not. 

 Senator Carrick: The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Premier of Queensland has written to the Prime Minister on a number of occasions seeking financial assistance from the Commonwealth for urban development programs and these requests are being considered in the context of the forthcoming Budget. 
Detoxification Centres in Roma Street, Brisbane  (Question No. 925) 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
Is the Federal Government providing any funding assistance for the construction or operation of the new Detoxification Centre in Roma Street, Brisbane; if so, (a) what are the details and (b) why has the Queensland Government been permitted to raise banners proclaiming 'a Queensland Government Project' on the construction site. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
1 ) What response has been received from each State on suggestions by the Federal Government that water quality standards be imposed as a condition of State Grants under the National Sewerage Program. 
What action is the Federal Government taking on this suggestion. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
1 ) What is the estimated extent of the current backlog in sewerage sevices in (a) Australia, (b) each State and Territory and (c) each capital city in Australia. 
What action is the Federal Government taking to overcome the backlog. 
What effect has the cutback in funds allocated for sewerage backlog programs in the 1976-77 Federal Budget had on the rate of overcoming the backlog. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees and (c) other employees were there in the Minister's Department for each month since and including November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees and (c) other employees were there in the Minister's 
Department for each month since and including November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Is the Prime Minister aware that the Queensland Liberal Party Leader and  Deputy  Premier,  Mr Knox,  at a public meeting in Brisbane on 20 May 1977, stated that the Queensland Government supported the establishment of separate States, presumably with 10 senators each, in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory; if so, (a) has the Queensland Government made any representations to the Commonwealth Government on this matter and (b) what is the Commonwealth's response to the suggestion. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
What assistance will the Federal Government be providing, if any, to the research project by four University of Sydney physicists into a new process for the development of solar energy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
Has the Minister investigated the claim by the Lord Mayor of Brisbane, referred to in an article in the  Courier-Mail  dated 14 April 1977, that the Queensland Government seemed reluctant to hand over $7,085,000' it had received from the Federal Government for Brisbane bus transport; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister repesenting the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister; if so, 
what are they. 
b ) who are the bankers for each authority and 
which, if any, of the authorities may be termed 'statutory authorities of a business nature '. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister if so, (a) what are they, (b) who are the bankers for each authority and (c) which, if any, of the authorities may be termed 'statutory authorities of a business nature '. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
Has the Queensland Government made formal submission to the Federal Government concerning Brisbane rail electrification; if so, 
a ) what are the details, 
what response has the Federal Government made to the submission; and 
what funds, if any, have so far been provided for the project. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Does the Minister have any reason to believe that the telephone of  Mr and Mrs H.  W. Fancher has been tapped, as was claimed by  Mrs Aileen  Fancher in the Townsville Bankruptcy Court on 17 May 1977, reported in the  Courier-Mail  dated 18 May 1977; if so, (a) what are the details and (b) what action is the Minister taking on this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
Did the Federal Government have a responsibility for meeting two-thirds of the total cost of purchasing 39 electric passenger rail cars for the Queensland Railways, as was claimed by the Queensland Minister for Transport,  Mr Hooper,  as reported in the Courier-Mail dated 1 8 May 1 977; 
a ) what are the details; and 
why did the Federal Government renegue on its undertaking. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
Have there been numerous resignations from the Aviation Division of the Department of Transport in the past 18 months, as was suggested by  Mr John  Stackhouse on the  PM  program on 1 1 May 1977; if so, 
what are the details. 
how does the resignation rate during the past eighteen months compare with the average rate of resignations during the previous five years, and 
what is the reason for the situation referred to by  Mr Stackhouse. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
Has the Minister undertaken any review of procedures within the Department of Transport since the severe criticism of the administration of the Department by an aviation and defence correspondent John Stackhouse on the  PM  program of May 1977; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
Will funding be available under the Community Youth Support Scheme after 30 June 1 977; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources the following question, upon notice, on 27 May 1 977: 
1 ) Is it necessary for the Queensland Government to seek approval from the Commonwealth Government prior to granting oil exploration leases in waters adjacent to the Great Barrier Reef; if so, what are the details. 
Has the Queensland Government sought approval from the Commonwealth Government for exploration lease applications from Gulf Oil or from any other company; if so, (a) what are the details and (b) has Commonwealth Government approval been granted. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 27 May 1 977: 
Has the Minister recently cancelled a visit to South East Asia; if so, (a) when was the trip first planned, (b) when was the trip to take place, (c) what was the reason for the visit, (d) what itinerary was planned for the  visit  and (e) why has the visit been cancelled. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Senate question No. 71 concerning training for counter staff employed in offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, can the Minister advise when the off-the-job training program is likely to be introduced. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 29 May 1977: 
What will be the cost of providing an answer to (a) question No. 1033 and (b) question No. 1034 asked by  Senator Lewis  on 26 May 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a claim reputedly made by a Cairns medical practitioner, referred to in the  Courier-Mail  dated 27 May 1977, that doctor-patient confidences are being breached by the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd when seeking unnecessary information from applicants for refunds on pregnancy test ante-natal examination; if so (a) has the Minister investigated this claim; if so, what are the details, and (b) what further action does the Minister intend taking on this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 3 June 1977: 
1 ) What action, if any, is the Attorney-General taking to investigate the recommendations of the report on the underprivileged and the law prepared by a committee of the Law Council of Australia, referred to in the Melbourne  Age  dated 27 May 1977, with a view to taking legislative action. 
When is it likely an announcement will be made on this subject by the Government. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 3 June 1977: 
Will the Department of Social Security be processing all claims for unemployment benefit, as they are received, from persons who leave school in November and December 1977 and who lodge claims between November 1977 and February 1978; if so what form will the processing take; if not, why not. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. On 24 May I asked a question upon notice in relation to Commonwealth Government responsibility in the purchase of 39 electric passenger rail cars for the Queensland Railways. My question was prompted by a claim by the Queensland Minister for Transport,  Mr Hooper,  that the Commonwealth Government had a responsibility for two-thirds of the cost of these cars. I received a reply to that question which stated: 
The Commonwealth Government has no commitment at this stage to assist the Queensland Government with the acquisition of the 39 electric passenger rail cars for Brisbane's suburban rail system. 
To clarify the situation, I ask whether the Commonwealth Government ever had a commitment to assist in the purchase of electric rail cars for the Queensland Railways? If there was some commitment, what was it and how was the obligation discharged? 
asked the Minister for Veteran's Affairs, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees and (c) other employees were there in the Minister's Department for each month since and including November 1975. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister; if so, (a) what are they; (b) who are the bankers for each authority; and (c) which, if any, of the authorities may be termed 'statutory authorities of a business nature'. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. On Wednesday the Minister announced a reduction of 100 in the number of post-graduate awards to be offered in 1978, to bring the number of awards to be offered in 1 978 to fewer than the number offered in 1971. Will the Minister inform the Senate what study or studies were undertaken to justify this reduction on top of a similar reduction last year? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 25 May 1 977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees and (c) other employees were there in the Minister's Department for each month since and including November 1975. 
I desire to address a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the recent action of the Rockhampton City Council terminating the employment of a female employee simply because she married. This action apparently is a policy which that Council invariably follows. Will the Minister have this discrimination investigated to see whether this 19th century practice can be stopped? 

 - Mr President, I am not sure whether the arrangements have fallen down again, but I did notify two Ministers that I would be speaking on a particular matter tonight. I notice that one of the Ministers is not yet in the chamber. During the adjournment debate we often hear about miscarriages of justice. One of the values of the adjournment debate is that members of this chamber can air their views on certain matters at this time. On a number of occasions when I have spoken during the adjournment debate I have spoken on matters of social security. The matter I speak of tonight covers that area as well as the area of employment and industrial relations. 
Tonight I outline what appears to me to be a gross miscarriage of justice which has been meted out to an Australian citizen because of what is nothing other than an illegal activity by an officer of the Commonwealth Employment Service. The issue subsequently involved two departments- the Department of Social Security and the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. Twice this year I have been forced to mention activities prevalent at the Redcliffe Commonwealth Employment Service office. As citizens of Queensland would know, Redcliffe is a city just north of Brisbane. On one occasion on which I spoke about the Redcliffe CES my speech concerned the apparent breaking of confidentiality by that office. On the second occasion I made brief reference to what I considered were illegal activities at the Redcliffe office of the Commonwealth Employment Service. The last time I mentioned it I did not mention that it was Redcliffe. I mentioned the matter in passing because I thought the problem had been overcome at Redcliffe and that the same thing would not happen again. Apparently the problem has not been overcome. This will be the third time I have had to mention Redcliffe. If I have complaints made to me about Redcliffe again it will not be the last time, although I hope that it will be. 
The case I mention tonight is different from the other cases that I have mentioned previously. This evening I purposely intend not to mention the name of the person involved. I do this so that he and his family will not be caused any embarrassment. When I have to refer to him I will call him John Smith. I think the Ministers concerned have been notified of the identity of this person. I hope that they will be able to refrain from causing any embarrassment to him by not mentioning his real name, but if they have to mention his name I will understand. John Smith has experienced a series of awkward confrontations with the Commonwealth Employment Service and the Department of Social Security. After speaking to this man it seems to me that these awkward confrontations could be a product of both John Smith and the Commonwealth Employment Service at Redcliffe. I do not lay all of the blame on any officer or officers at Redcliffe. However, in my opinion they are at least partly to blame. 
During the parliamentary recess it was brought to my attention that this young man was having difficulty in receiving unemployment benefits. In fact he was not receiving any benefits at all. On investigating his case I was astounded to find that the Commonwealth Employment Service had refused to register him for employment. He received a letter not from the Commonwealth Employment Service but from the Department of Social Security telling him that this had happened and outlining the reasons why his claim for unemployment benefit had not been successful. I would like to read the contents of that letter which states quite clearly that this man was refused permission to register for employment. It states: 
Your claim for unemployment benefit has been rejected as the Commonwealth Employment Service has refused to accept your registration for employment. 
The Commonwealth Employment Service will not consider acceptance of your registration until you can produce a reference from an employer to say that you have worked for a period of 3-6 months. 
This seems to me to be a most incredible situation. That letter was from the Depanment of Social Security, not from the Commonwealth Employment Service. The remarkable thing about it is that it contains an admission that although this man wanted to register with the Commonwealth Employment Service for employment he was not allowed to do so and, what is more, he would not be allowed to do so until he had actually worked for a period of 3 to 6 months and had obtained a reference from an employer. I think the illogicality of this can be seen quite easily. A person who goes to register for employment is told that he cannot do so until he has had a job for 3 to 6 months. 
During recesses of the Parliament members of Parliament have no parliamentary forum in which they can air happenings like this but if a member of Parliament thinks it necessary he can use the forum provided by the media of Australia. Subsequently I informed the media of what had happened and one evening some comments were made on the the Broadcasting Commission 's program  PM.  I outlined what had happened and said that this person had been refused registration by the Commonwealth Employment Service. Then a spokesman for CES made some comments on that program. I quote what Geoff Duncan said on that program: 
I did manage to speak to a spokesman for CES just a few minutes ago, and he told me that the CES cannot refuse to register a person for employment. He was adamant that that was the situation. He would not be drawn on a particular case just cited by  Senator Colston  but he said that the CES was looking into it and would report to the Minister,  Mr Street.  Any person can register for employment. The crunch comes when they try to apply for unemployment benefits. 
-The date of that  PM  program was 1 8 July. I understand that the situation always is that if a person does not pass the work test and is not eligible for unemployment benefits the decision is made not by the CES but by the Department of Social Security. In this case I raise it appears that the decision was made prematurely by an officer of the CES who said that this person could not register. Later in that interview Geoff Duncan said: 
If  Senator Colston's  claims are correct then I am informed that the action of the CES in this particular case is likely to be highly illegal. 
I used the word 'illegal' because that is what I believe to be the case. There are certain unanswered questions which I hope  Senator Durack,  the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  might be able to answer at a subsequent stage. 
There are two basic questions. The first is this: What action has been taken at Redcliffe over this illegal action by an officer of the Commonwealth Employment Service? One might then ask: Was this part of a deliberate attempt to make the unemployment figures at Redcliffe look better than they actually were by refusing people the right to register at that office? The second main question which I wish to ask is: How many other such cases were there at Redcliffe? I have virtually stumbled on two. I say 'stumbled' because these cases have been brought to my attention. But how many more were there? These are the two main questions that I hope the Minister will be able to answer. 
As well it seems to me that John Smith has been deprived of unemployment benefits. Because he was not able to register he was not able to qualify for unemployment benefits, as the letter which I quoted stated. My information is that he ceased work on 16 March 1977 and did not again have work until 1 August 1 977. My information again is that during this period he was not in receipt of any benefits of any kind. Subsequently I asked the Minister for Social Security to look into this case. I do not do this as a matter of course and I hesitate to ask the Minister to look at particular cases because I know the number of representations that must be made to her; but I thought that this was an important case in which there had been a miscarriage of justice and I asked her to investigate the case of John Smith. 
Because the fact that he refused to register had some bearing on the matter I asked  Mr Street  for information on how long John Smith had been off the register. It seemed to me that this was pertinent information to pass along to the Department of Social Security. Eventually I was informed of the dates that he was off the register. I received a telegram from the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations which stated: 
Your telegram re John Smith. He was taken off the CES register on 5 April 1977 and restored to it on 19 April. These dates have been passed to  Senator Guilfoyle  's office. 
Frankly- I say this with some hesitation- I do not believe that those dates were correct. The telegram says that he was taken off the register on 5 April and restored to it on 19 April, yet the letter that I quoted earlier was dated 10 May. On 10 May the Department of Social Security wrote to this man and said that he could not receive unemployment benefit because he had not been accepted for registration by the Commonwealth Employment Service. I do not say that the books have been cooked, an expression which was heard earlier tonight, but I do say that there has quite conceivably been a mistake, either by the Department of Social Security in the letter that was sent to the lad or by the Commonwealth Employment Service which states those dates of 5 and 19 April. 
I received a letter from the Minister for Social Security in relation to my request to have John Smith reconsidered for unemployment benefits. 1 will read the letter because it is pertinent to the argument that I am developing about John Smith tonight. The letter stated:  1 am replying to your personal representations of 19 July 1977 and 8 August 1977 on behalf of John Smith concerning his eligibility for unemployment benefit. 
In order to qualify for unemployment benefit, a claimant must be unemployed: be capable of undertaking and willing to undertake suitable work: and must have taken reasonable steps to obtain such work. 
The process of registering persons for employment, seeking work for them and determining whether they are prepared to accept the offer of such work is culled the work test. The test is administered by the Commonwealth Employment Service on behalf of the Department of Social Security. 
My Department therefore may only grant unemployment benefit on receipt ora report from the CES that the applicant has satisfied the work test. In  Mr Smith's  case there were a number of reports from the Commonwealth Employment Service that he has not satisfied the work test and my Department had no alternative but to disallow his claim. 
Following your further representations the DirectorGeneral has again reviewed the case and in the light of the reports from the Commonwealth Employment Service has confirmed the decision not to grant  Mr Smith  unemployment benefit. 
The point I want to make with regard to that letter is that it states that the process of registering persons for employment is part of the work test. This person was not permitted to register for employment. Therefore he was automatically discriminated against in not being able to participate in the work test. Further on the letter states: 
In  Mr Smith's  case there were a number of reports from the Commonwealth Employment Service that he had not satisfied the work test . . . 
How could he satisfy the work test if he was not registered, particularly when he was not registered not through any fault of his own but through the fault of an officer of the Commonwealth Employment Service at Redcliffe? I suggest that in this case there has been a real injustice. 
To recapitulate what has happened: This person went along to register for employment and was refused registration. He was under the impression that he could apply for unemployment benefit, and he did so. He was then told that he could not receive it because the CES had refused to register him. Again I say that there may have been fault on the part of John Smith, but if there has been fault on his part there also has been fault on the pan of the Commonwealth Employment Service in not allowing him to register. The proper procedure would have been for the CES to have allowed him to register. If the CES considered that he would not pass the work test, that information then should have been passed on to the Depanment of Social Security, which then would have been able to use that information to refuse him such benefit. But he was not able to register. So it seems to me that there is a good case for the Minister having a look at this matter again to see whether it would be possible for some benefit to be paid to this lad. I could relate a great many more pertinent facts about this case, but I do not think it is necessary for me to do so as the most pertinent ones have been related already. If necessary, I will relate more facts that will elaborate this case. 
I await the comment of the Minister for Social Security as to whether it would be possible to have a look at this case again. If it is not possible to do so, I will advise John Smith to take this matter further. At this juncture I am not sure what action can be taken, but I have made some tentative inquiries today and the answers seem to indicate that there is an agency under Commonwealth jurisdiction that will allow this person to take his case further because of the injustice that was done to him. I hope that this is not necessary. I hope that the Minister will see that an injustice has been done and will be able to look into the matter once more. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 29 March 1977: 
Do any State dental hospitals receive funds from the Commonwealth Government through Medibank or any other scheme; if so, what are the details, including broad details of the fee structure and specific details of any means test for treatment in any such hospital or hospitals. 
-I present the following petition from 203 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That the proposed closure of Kallangur West Post Office on the completion of a new Post Office at Kallangur will not be in the best interests of the residents of Kallangur West and North Petrie. 
That the closure would bring about considerable inconvenience to residents, particularly to the aged who would be forced to travel either to Kallangur or Petrie. 
That there is a community need for the continued operation of the Kallangur West Post Office. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Kallangur West Post Office remain operating after the completion of the new Post Office at Kallangur. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
It is always a pleasure to follow the doyen of the Fraser Government's Ministers, the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster),  who has boasted in this chamber - 
As I was saying, before  Senator Archer's  ridiculous comment, he is the Minister who has boasted in this chamber that as the Minister for Science he can add up a set of figures. He is also a very great expert on the timber industry. He told honourable senators tonight that the Fraser Government has a wellbalanced budget. During the course of my speech this evening I intend to point out some of the deficiencies in the Budget that has been brought down by this Government. I remind those who are listening that the Minister who has just spoken is the Minister for Science, but for only two whole minutes of his 30 minute speech did he mention matters relating to his Science portfolio. He told us that inflation was the No. 1 enemy that this Government had to attack. Let him come with me throughout the length of the State that I represent and say that to the unemployed in my State. I shall quote to honourable senators some of the unemployment figures for Queensland to show what the past Budget did and, unfortunately, what this Budget is doing in relation to unemployment. 
The last employment statistics that are available are for July 1977. At the end of that month 5.64 per cent of the Queensland work force was registered as unemployed. I stress the word registered' because I am sure that there are many more unemployed in Queensland, in fact in any State, than those who are registered as unemployed. Let us look at some of the cities and towns in the State that I represent and see how the position has became worse over the past 12 months. Let me take Bundaberg. I am not choosing these in any particular order; Bundaberg happens to head the alphabetical list that I have. In that city there are 1,260 people out of work. To put this into perspective, we look at the figure for the same time last year, and find that there has been an increase of 3 8 per cent in the number of unemployed in that city. In Cairns there are 3,000 people unemployed. Yet this Government, through the Minister for Science, says that inflation is the No. 1 enemy. I submit that unemployment is a greater enemy than inflation. Unemployment is what this Government should be tackling. I will mention some other cities in Queensland. Gympie, with 667 people unemployed, has 45 per cent more people unemployed than it had this time last year. Ingham has 139 per cent more people unemployed than it had this time last year. These are figures which I hope this Government will look at when it says that inflation is the No. 1 enemy. 
It is a pity that the Minister has just gone through a tremendous amount of irrelevant information telling us how good this Budget is and that inflation is the No. 1 enemy when things are not improving one bit throughout the community. Indeed, things are getting worse in the employment sphere in every State. I remind those who are listening to this broadcast that we are debating a motion to which was moved an amendment. The motion was 'That the Senate take note of the papers', those papers being the Budget Papers. To that motion the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  moved an amendment which reads as follows: 
At end of motion add: 
 But the Senate is of the opinion that the Budget: 
1 ) will intensify and prolong the recession; 
2 ) will increase unemployment; 
3 ) will have little impact on inflation; 
will make regressive changes in the tax system; and 
will reduce living standards.' 
In my speech I will be supporting the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
I intend this evening not to dwell on matters that have been mentioned by previous speakers but to speak on one particular matter which the Minister for Science mentioned in passing. Like the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and some other people who have been propounding what a 'sound' Budget this is, the Minister for Science said: 
Expenditure on education has not been curtailed. 
As I shall outline, expenditure on education has been greatly curtailed. There has been an increase in the amount of money allocated for education but one knows that in days of inflation one cannot look at money values only. One has to relate these, using a deflator if necessary, to consumer price index increases so that one year can be compared with another. If we do that to the 
The area of education is of extreme importance. It is of importance not only to those who are at school, colleges or universities at present, but it is important for us as a whole nation. Over the past years great advances have been made in education, especially in education spending. I speak particularly of the years since 1972. But this year, with a definite cut in the budget for education, every advance that has been made in recent years has suddenly been reversed. This is where this Government should hang its head in shame. As I said, the students, the teachers, the parents throughout Australia will now lose any faith they once had in this Government. Any faith they might have had that this Government would look after education spending in Australia will have completely disappeared out the window when they see that this Government has definitely set out to cut education spending. 
Let us go back over the past few years and look at the figures concerning the financial commitment of the Commonwealth Government in regard to education. We will then be able to appreciate what has happened over recent years. With your concurrence,  Mr Deputy President,  and with the concurrence of the Minister for Science, who can understand figures very well, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is leave granted? 
The author of this document is an educationist of long standing. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? 

 -Mr Deputy President, as Senators Webster and Missen well know, I am the author of this document. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="074232197708244_57_0.jpg"></graphic>

The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  That is not a point of order. I call  Senator Colston. 
In this document I have set out the education expenditure for the years 1970- 71 to 1977-78. First of all, in 1970-71, at current prices, $298m was spent on education. In 1971- 72, $349m was spent on education. I have set out the figures through to 1977-78 where the estimated expenditure as taken from the Budget is $2,37 lm. If one examines this table one can see that the figures have been adjusted according to the consumer price indices and that it shows expenditure at average 1970-71 prices. These figures have been adjusted to show that until this year there has been a definite increase in the amount of money in real terms spent on education. It goes from $298m in 1970-7 1 to $327m in 1971-72, through to 1976-77 when $l,125m was allocated for education in the Commonwealth Budget. Unfortunately, one cannot be absolutely sure of what the inflation rate will be in 1977-78, but by searching through the Budget documents, the best I could ascertain was that the inflation rate for 1977-78 will be about 10.5 per cent. If this is the case it means that education spending has decreased in real terms from $l,125m in 1976-77 to $1,1 17m in 1977-78. Even if one takes an inflation rate of 10 per cent, as I will show later on, there is still a definite drop in real terms in the amount of money set aside for education in this Budget. So much for the statement that education spending has increased. 
On the night that the Budget was introduced, much play was made of the fact that there was extra money for education in the Budget. There was extra money in today's money terms, but in real terms there was no extra money. Unfortunately, although there was a great expansion of funds in real value spent on education from 1972 onwards, it all changed in 1977. It did not really change on the night of the Budget; actually it changed on 3 June 1977. This is a date that will be long remembered when this Government's approach to education is evaluated. I should like to look at the reasons why this date of 3 June 1977 is so significant, but to do so, first of all we have to go back to May 1976. On 20 May 1976 the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  announced guidelines for the Education Commissions in their planning for the 1 977-79 rolling triennium. In 1976 the Minister stated what would be available regarding increases in education spending for those Commissions in 1978. The 1976 guidelines provided that universities could work on a growth rate of 2 per cent. It was the same for Colleges of Advanced Education. Technical and further education could work on a 5 per cent increase and the Schools Commission on a 2 per cent increase. Unfortunately, all that changed on 3 June 1977 when new guidelines were introduced. Universities, colleges of advanced education, schools and technical colleges had worked on the basis of those percentage increases- they had planned that way- but suddenly they were told that in 1978 they would not be given that son of allocation. Universities were told that there would be no increase in their funding. Colleges of advanced education were told that they would receive no increase. Technical and further education colleges were told that they would receive a 10 per cent increase. Schools were told that they would receive no increase. That 10 per cent increase stands out and looks like a great amount, but it represented only $8. 2m in a total of about $ 1,737m. As the author of a table headed 'Commission Guidelines for 1977 and 1978 as Announced in 1976 and 1977', I seek leave to incorporate it in Hansard. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

COMMISSION GUIDELINES FOR 1977 AND 1978 AS ANNOUNCED IN 1976 AND 1977 

<graphic href="074232197708244_58_11.jpg"></graphic>

When we examine the decreases from the 1976 guidelines to the 1977 guidelines, let us not forget that cost supplementation was drastically reduced in the 1977 guidelines for 1978 and thereafter. This will mean that even a lower amount of money will be made available this financial year. 
It was against this background of 3 June 1977 that many of us who are concerned about education awaited the Budget with some trepidation. Our trepidation was not without cause because we found, as I pointed out earlier, that, although the amount of money allocated for education in 1977-78 appeared to be greater than that allocated in 1976-77, it was an increase of only 9.8 per cent. It we take an inflation rate of 10 per cent- which I think will be an underestimatethe amount of money that is to be made available this year, according to the Budget, means that in real terms less money will be spent on education than was spent last year. In fact, because of the change in guidelines, including the changes to cost supplementation, estimates have been made- not by me but by members of the staff of the Parliamentary Library who have circulated a paper to those people in the Parliament who are interested in this field- that the total real cut in education expenditure for 1978 and 1979 will be about $ 125m. So much for this Government's concern about education in Australia! 
In the short time that is left to me to speak in this debate I intend to make some comments about the number of postgraduate awards that this Government is providing. When I mention postgraduate awards, I am speaking of a very limited field- a field which is of interest to a relatively small body of people in the total field of education. In doing this, I do not deny that there are other areas where vast improvement is required in education. If one goes into almost any school in Australia one will find that funds are needed. There are some schools, of course, where the facilities are grand. But when I travel throughout the electorate that I represent I find schools where there is a great need for equipment, a great need for playgrounds, teachers do not have proper staff rooms and all the facilities that are required for a school generally need some improvement. When I speak about postgraduate awards, I do not want to give the impression that I do not realise that these other problems exist. I am sure that some of my colleagues, during the course of the Budget debate and during the Estimates committee hearings will be mentioning these problems. 
I have a great interest in postgraduate awards. Last year there was a reduction in the number of such awards offered by this Government. I mentioned this when the number of awards being offered for postgraduate work was reduced from 900 to 800. Last year the Minister for Education, in reply to some of my comments said: 
I acknowledge the real significance of postgraduate research and postgraduate development in the universities. I acknowledge that it is one of the main factors which give universities their distinctive characteristics of scholarship both in pure and applied research. I acknowledge that as soon as the economy of Australia is in sufficiently good shape we should look towards the field of university research and see what can be done. 
That is what the Minister said last year when I complained to him that the Government of which he is a Minister cut the number of postgraduate awards from 900 a year to 800 a year. At the same time, he said: 
I stress and acknowledge the importance of postgraduate work in universities. I acknowledge that it ought to be kept under review. 
It was kept under review all right, because this year when the Minister for Education presented his paper, the day after the Budget was presented he announced: 
For 1978, 700 new awards -  he was referring to postgraduate awards-  will be offered for competition. This is a reduction of 100 on the number offered in 1977 . . . 
The Government did keep this matter under review. Not only did it decrease the number of awards by 100 last year, but it decided to decrease the number of awards by a further 100 this year. Last year the number was reduced because of economic stringencies. This year the Government offered a new excuse. This is its excuse: 
This decision, which brings the number of awards on offer to approximately the number made in 1974 -  that statement, by the way, is misleading-  has regard for the increasing supply of students with higher degree qualifications in recent years, a situation which justifies a small tapering of the scheme. 
A reduction of 100 in the number of awards offered does not bring it back to the figures of 1 974. It brings it back much further. It brings it to the level of 197 1 or a little earlier. The Minister was saying that there is a much larger number of postgraduate students and because of that the Government would decrease the number of awards offered. No study was made to see whether there should be a reduction in postgraduate awards, whether we had an oversupply of postgraduates or whether there was any way in which postgraduates could finance their own education. The Government took a bland look at the numbers and decided to decrease the number of awards by 100. 1 asked a question on this matter in the Senate last week. The Minister stated: 
As soon as there is an economic recovery, as soon as more resources are available in this country we will put the matter under close scrutiny again. 
In one way I hope that the Minister does not do so, because the last time he put this matter under scrutiny he knocked off another 100 awards. If he puts it under scrutiny again he may do that again. Nevertheless, I think that the Government should carefully examine the decision it has made to cut the number of postgraduate awards it will offer this year. It is interesting to note that at the present time there are 18,000 higher degree students in Australian universities. This Government has cut the number of awards being offered for this type of educational endeavour from 800 to 700. What a great difference this will make to the total number of people studying for higher degrees in Australian universities! The approach that this Government has taken to those awards is far different from the approach that it took to student loans. 
One can perhaps question the motives of the government with regard to these two different types of approaches to see whether there is anything suspect about them. Reducing the number of post-graduate awards would reduce expenditure. Having student loans rather than allowances for students probably would reduce expenditure also. The decision with regard to the number of awards was an ad hoc decision. The other with regard to student financing by way of loans was the subject of a great report. I presume the report was examined by the Government. It was examined within the community. Yet it was rejected in this Budget. The approach that was taken for the two issues was quite different. I would say that if any reductions are to be made in the field of education they should be made only after a proper study and proper consideration. Such study and consideration was made with regard to the student loans. 
I started this evening by pointing out that the Budget strategies that we have experienced so far have failed. They have failed especially in the State I represent, where we have increasing numbers of unemployed and the second highest rate of unemployment of any State in Australia. I moved on and pointed out that this Government had also failed the teachers, the parents and the students of Australia by cutting funds for education. It cannot continue to say that it has increased funds, because this is patently false. The funds for education this year have been decreased, and it is up to the Government to realise this fact, to admit and to make sure that in future Budgets the position is rectified. 
This evening I raise matters which appear in two questions which I have placed on the Senate Notice Paper seeking details of funding provided by the Commonwealth Government for sewerage works in Australia. After 1972 a national sewerage program was established. It was established in 1973 to eliminate a backlog of over half a million unsewered dwellings throughout Australia. The Commonwealth Government allocated to the States $36m in 1973-74,$ 108m in 1974-75 and in 1975-76, in a Budget which was introduced when the Labor Party was still in power, the Government allocated $1 13m. Unfortunately after Labor was no longer in power the position changed and in 1976-77 only $49m was provided compared with $ 1 1 3m in the previous year. It now seems that the whole program has been dropped. Within Queensland this program had special significance in that in 1973-74 - 
As I was saying,  Mr President,  in Queensland this scheme was of special significance because in 1973-74 an amount of $2. 8m was allocated for sewerage in that State. In 1974-75 the amount was $6.8m; in 1975-76 it was $8.1m but in 1976-77 the allocation dropped to $lm. Unfortunately this Government seems to have shown a complete lack of interest in reducing the sewerage backlog and in urban regional development programs in general. In Queensland there has developed a certain amount of publicity which has been fostered by the  Deputy  Premier,  Mr Knox,  and another Minister in the Queensland Government,  Mr Hinze,  who have been asking for more funds for the State for this purpose. 
As I mentioned before, in the Hayden Budget of 1975-76 an amount of $1 13m was appropriated for the national sewerage program. The full amount of that allocation was expended. In the first Lynch Budget of 1976-77 an amount of $50m was appropriated for the program. That was a cut of about 70 per cent. The reason I mention these figures is that the whole program was of tremendous importance not only to the State that I represent but also to the nation as a whole. It is important, I believe, to determine whether the change of Government policy has been due to a close examination of all the details that should be looked at or whether it is just another ad hoc decision of government to save government funds. It is because of this that I put some questions on notice. Last Wednesday I received answers to two questions on notice that suggest the Government made a decision without the full recognition of the problem. They also seem to suggest that the Government is attempting to whitewash the problem by withholding facts. 
Firstly I draw attention to question No. 946 which reads as follows: 
1 ) What is the estimated extent of the current backlog in sewerage services in (a) Australia, (b) each State and Territory and (c) each capital city in Australia. 
What action is the Federal Government taking to overcome the backlog. 
What effect has the cutback in funds allocated for sewerage backlog programs in the 1976-77 Federal Budget had on the rate of overcoming the backlog? 
In other words, the question asked was: What was the backlog, what action was the Federal Government taking and how much of the backlog was reduced by the funds allocated in the 1976-77 Budget? The answer to part ( 1 ) (a), (b) and (c) of the question was: 
No figures currently available. 
This was the answer that I received in respect of the estimated extent of the current backlog in sewerage services in Australia, in each State and Territory and in each capital city. The answer that I received- this is the point I would like to raise with the relevant Minister- is quite at variance with the contents of a brief that I have been privileged to look at, a brief that was developed by the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. In part the briefing stated: 
The National Sewerage Program by which the Commonwealth provides assistance to the States resulted from a review by the Cities Commission. It has been estimated that there is a $4,000m backlog in services with a $850m backlog in Perth alone. 
In other words, the brief from the Depanment of Environment, Housing and Community Development set out the extent of the backlog, namely $4,000m throughout Australia and $850m in Perth alone. But the answer that I received last Wednesday to my question stated that no figures were currently available for the backlog in Australia, in each State and Territory and in each capital city. I draw the Minister's attention to the fact that there is a discrepancy between the answer that I received and the briefing note that was developed by the Department. Further, I draw attention to question No. 945 in which I asked: 
1 ) What response has been received from each State on suggestions by the Federal Government that water quality standards be imposed as a condition of State Grants under the National Sewerage Program. 
What action is the Federal Government taking on this suggestion. 
The answer to part ( 1 ) of the question in respect of what response had been received in relation to water quality standards being imposed was as follows: 
1 ) No response has been received because the suggestion has not been made. 
Again, that answer is at variance with the information given in the brief by the Department for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Part of the brief stated: 
There had been an attempt to impose water quality standards as a condition of States Grants under the National Sewerage Program but in Federal State discussions it had been difficult to reach an appropriate consensus. 
That seems to indicate that the suggestion was made that water quality standards should be imposed as a condition of State grants under the national sewerage program. As the Minister represents the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  I would not expect that he would be able to provide answers to the discrepancies that I have outlined this evening, but I do think they are important. I think it is important that when we receive answers to questions we can accept them as being accurate. Either the information that I received in the answer is not accurate or the information in the briefing by the Department is not accurate. I ask the Minister whether he will look into this matter and perhaps give me a reply at some subsequent date. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister; if so, (a) what are they, (b) who are the bankers for each authority and (c) which, if any. of the authorities may be termed 'statutory authorities of a business nature '. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate who is today Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. The Minister may recall that last year I raised the matter of rescheduling of radio news services and current affairs programs on the Australian Broadcasting Commission in Queensland while other eastern States operated under daylight saving time. Unfortunately, despite my representations, radio news programs from the Commission were still presented at unacceptable times for Queensland residents. Presuming that the same time difference will again occur in future months, I ask the Minister whether he can use his influence to see that Queensland residents are not disadvantaged and discriminated against this year as they were last year. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. The Leader would be aware that for many months there have been disagreements between the Federal and Queensland governments and the Brisbane City Council over funding for the 1982 Commonwealth Games in Brisbane. The Leader will also be aware that the Federal Government has refused to determine its contribution until an announcement on accommodation arrangements for the games athletes is made. Given that the Brisbane Lord Mayor announced yesterday that tenders had been let for a $6m 585-room Commonwealth games centre, will the Leader take urgent action to ensure that the Federal Government's contribution to the 1982 Commonwealth Games is made known to the Brisbane City Council? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Administrative Services. I draw the Minister's attention to the Ministerial Document Service Bulletin released on 29 July 1977 containing Press statements released on 28 July by Ministers and Opposition Leaders. Is the Minister aware that 2 Press statements in the bulletin for that date, under the heading 'Press Release by the Minister for the Northern Territory' were in fact statements by a back bench senator and a back bench member of the House of Representatives on the one hand and by another back bench member of the House of Representatives on the other? Will the Minister advise whether the issue of these two Press releases in the Ministerial Document Service by National Country Party members will be a precedent to be followed in the future? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) What is the current number of persons in the work force on each Aboriginal reserve in Queensland. 
How many persons on each Aboriginal reserve in Queensland are currently in full employment. 
How many persons on each Aboriginal reserve in Queensland are in receipt of unemployment benefit. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
Has the Prime Minister written to the States asking them to defer application of Design Rule 27a relating to exhaust emission control standards; if so, (a) when did the Prime Minister write, (b) for what reason has the request been made and (c) what has been the result of the correspondence. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees and (c) other employees were there in the Treasurer's Department for each month since and including November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 24 May 1 977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees and (c) other employees were there in the Minister's Department for each month since and including November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees; (b) temporary employees; and (c) other employees were there in the Minister s Department for each month since and including November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development on 17 August 1977: 
Does the Minister intend taking any action in relation to sand mining on Fraser Island as a result of examination of the study of the Fraser Island issue carried out by A. A. Heath and Partners; if so, what are the details? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
What decisions have so far been taken with regard to the payment of compensation to D.M. Minerals and Queensland Titanium Mines Pty Ltd relating to the suspension of sand mining operations on Fraser Island. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
With reference to the Minister's reply to Question No. 14  (Senate Hansard,  24 March 1977, p. 547), what has been the result of efforts to obtain ground floor accommodation for each of the offices mentioned in the reply, and which at that time did not have ground floor accommodation. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) What salary and entitlements, including office accommodation, staff, travel and transport, is the Commonwealth currently supplying to the Governor-General designate. 
) What is the estimated cost of each item named. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
With reference to the Minister's reply to Senate Question No. 694  (Hansard),  is it a fact that the Terms of Reference for the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry restrict the Commission to a consideration only of sand mining; if so, was the Commission justified in making the observation referred to by the Minister. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 7 August 1977: 
1 ) What was the destination of the Royal Australian Air Force helicopter which crashed recently in West Irian, and where was its base located. 
At what time and on what date did the crash occur. 
3 ) What was the exact location of the crash site. 
What are the names and designations of each of the occupants of the helicopter at the time of the crash. 
5 ) What caused the crash. 
If any Indonesian officials were on board the helicopter, for what reason were they on board. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 25 May 1 977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister, if so, (a) what are they, (b) who are bankers for each authority and (c) which, if any, of the authorities may be termed 'statutory authorities of a business nature'. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
Is the current high level of imports of scallops into Australia threatening the livelihood of commercial fishing enterprises in Australia, particularly those based along the Queensland coast inside the Great Barrier Reef; if so, what action does the Minister intend taking to overcome this threat. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
What percentage of Australia's Aboriginal work force is currently unemployed. 
What special assistance is the Minister's Department providing to unemployed Aboriginals at the present time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Question No. 1 189 (Senate Hansard, 11 November 1976) (a) when were each of the 19 positions listed in ( 1 ) created and (b) what are the details of the 'restraints' on departmental staffing referred to in parts (2) and (3) of the Minister's reply. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
What was the staffing structure of the Aboriginal Employment section of the Commonwealth Employment Service in each month since November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
How many Aboriginals were registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service in each State and Territory, and for Australia as a whole, for each month since November 1975. 
What was the estimated Aboriginal work force in each State and Territory, and for Australia as a whole, for each month since November 1975. 
From the figures listed in parts (1) and (2), what percentage of the Aboriginal work force was registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service in each State and Territory, and for Australia as a whole, for each month since November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister; if so, (a) what are they, (b) who are the bankers for each authority and (c) which, if any, of the authorities may be termed 'statutory authorities of a business nature'. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Has any Department or agency of the Commonwealth Government engaged the firm of Capricorn Aerial Mapping to undertake survey or mapping work in the RockhamptonYeppoon area in the past twelve months: if so, (a) what are the details and (b) has this matter any connection with the proposal by Iwasaki Sangyo (Australia) Pty Ltd to finance a tourist development project at Yeppoon. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
Has the Victorian Minister for Labor and Industry,  Mr McLellan,  had discussions with the Minister on a proposal that the Federal Government establish a commission of inquiry into long-term employment planning; if so, (a) when did the discussions take place, (b) what are the terms of the Victorian Government's proposal, (c) has the Victorian Government made a formal submission on this matter to the Federal Government; if so, when, and (d) what is the Minister's reaction to this proposal. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
How many former employees of sandmining operations on Fraser Island are currently registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service: (a) in Maryborough; and (b) elsewhere. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
What functions of the Department of Productivity have been adversely affected because of inadequate staffing within the Department, referred to by the Minister in his speech to the New South Wales Productivity Group Advisory Council on 15 July 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 August 1977: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the column 'As I See It' which appeared in  The Courier Mail  dated 22 August 1977, in which the  Deputy  Premier of Queensland,  Mr Knox,  stated when referring to the need to upgrade Brisbane Airport that the Queensland Coalition Government is ready to play its part in co-operation with the Commonwealth to proceed with this most important development without delay'; if so, what financial or other assistance is the Queensland Government required to provide before the Commonwealth Government will agree to undertake the realignment of the runways at Brisbane Airport 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
Has the Queensland Housing Commission received its allocation of Federal funding for 1977-78; if not why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees and (c) other employees were there in the Minister's Department for each month since and including November 1975. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 September 1977: 
How many citizens of (i) Bundaberg and (ii) Hervey Bay are currently in receipt of (a) an age pension; and (b) an invalid pension. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 3 May 1977: 
What action, if any, has the Government taken to implement the suggestion from the  President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, referred to in his Annual Report for the year ended 13 August 1976, on page 9, namely the creation of a joint secretariat. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 3 May 1977: 
What action, if any, has the Government taken to implement the suggestion from the  President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, referred to on page 10 of his Annual Report for the year ended 13 August 1976, namely the provision in each appropriate Act for the joint sitting of members of State and Federal tribunals. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 3 May 1977: 
What action, if any, had the Government taken to implement the suggestion from the  President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, referred to in his Annual Report for the year ended 13 August 1976, on page 10, namely the insertion in all Acts of provisions whereby formal consultation could take place between two tribunals to deal with specific matters. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister; if so, (a) what are they, (b) who are the bankers for each authority and (c) which, if any, of the authorities may be termed 'statutory authorities of a business nature'. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees (b) temporary employees and (c) other employees were there in the Minister's Department for each month since and including November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
Are foreign fishing vessels taking huge quantities of scallops from fishing grounds inside the Great Barrier Reef, thus threatening the livelihood of Australians employed on commercial fishing vessels in that region; if so, what action does the Minister intend taking to preserve these fishing grounds for Australian fishermen. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 3 May 1 977: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the statement by the  President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, contained in his Annual Report for the year ended 13 August 1976, that achievements in the publication of Commonwealth Arbitration reports are threatened by shortages of staff and equipment; if so, 
I ) what are the extent and nature of these shortages, 
what effect are they having on the publication of the reports concerned, 
whose responsibility is it that these shortages have occurred, and 
what action is being taken, if any, to remedy the situation. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
Has the Australian Bureau of Statistics found it necessary to re-calculate population statistics for all Australian local government areas after checks showed an error of nearly 3 per cent in figures based on the 1976 Census; if so, how did the error occur in the original calculation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
What action has the Minister taken to investigate claims of invasion of privacy by Medibank inspectors made by  Dr Wendy  White of Mossman and reported in the Brisbane  Sunday Sun  dated 1 7 July 1977. 
What was the result of any investigations listed in ( 1 ). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) In determining the number of copies of a book which is in libraries for purposes of Public Lending Rights, how many libraries are sampled. 
What proportion of total eligible libraries does the sample represent. 
3 ) Is the same sample used each year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister; if so, (a) what are they, (b) who are the bankers for each authority and (c) which, if any, of the authorities may be termed statutory authorities of a business nature. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees and (c) other employees were there in the Minister's department for each month since and including November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) Were copies of the Parliament House special postmarker which was advertised on page 8 of Stamp Preview No. 3 1977 actually stamped at Parliament House, Canberra; if so, (a) how many copies of the postmarker were affixed to 'over the counter' sales on 9 May 1977; and (b) how many additional copies of the postmarker were affixed to covers and on what date or dates were the postmarkers affixed. 
If the postmarker was not stamped at Parliament House, Canberra, where was it stamped and how many copies of the postmarker were affixed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) How many copies of Stamp Preview No. 3 1 977 were distributed. 
What was the cost of distribution. 
Was a paid advertisement in relation to 'The Colour Catalogue of Australian Stamps' included with all copies of Stamp Preview No. 3 1977; if so, (a) how many copies of the advertisement were distributed with Stamp Preview; and (b) what revenue did Australia Post receive for the distribution of the advertisement. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) What funds were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for Aboriginal Affairs matters in 1976-77. 
What amount of the 1976-77 allocation remained unspent at 30 June 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2) returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. Is the Minister aware that on the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio current affairs program  PM  on 28 September, a former employee of an unnamed credit company,  Mr Dennis  Williams, claimed that inspectors of that company threatened customers that unless debts were met they would be forced to hand over their pension cheques in payment to the company? Will the Minister investigate this allegation and, if the claims are proven to be correct, ensure that appropriate action is taken against the company concerned? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
When does the Minister expect to be able to announce details of the Government's proposals for a Young Farmers' Establishment Scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 2 5 May 1977: 
Are there statutory authorities responsible to the Minister, if so: 
what are they, 
b) who are the bankers for each authority, and 
which, if any, of the authorities may be termed 'Statutory authorities of a business nature '. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
How many (a) permanent employees, (b) temporary employees and (c) other employees were there in the Minister's department for each month since and including November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 18 August 1977: 
1) In relation to question No. 943 (Senate  Hansard,  17 August 1977, p.208), has the Commonwealth Government ever had a commitment to assist in the purchase of electric passenger rail cars for the Queensland Railways. 
If there was some commitment, what was it, and how was the obligation discharged. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
With respect to the Minister's reply to Senate question No. 1085  (Hansard,  17 August 1977, p. 208) concerning procedures within the Department of Transport, (a) which divisions of the Department are currently being subjected to a review of procedures; and (b) by whom is the review being carried out in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry on 16 August 1977: 
With regard to the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities: 
how many meetings of the Council have been held in the past five years; 
For each meeting in (a): 
What was the venue; 
How many delegates attended; 
C) What expenses were incurred by delegates in: 
fares, 
accommodation; 
meals, and 
other; 
What other expenses were incurred by the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities; and 
What other expenses were incurred by any other government department or authority and what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
1 ) In what trades have apprentices been employed in (a) Telecom Australia, and (b) Australia Post, since 1 July 1970. 
By Branch, for each year from 1970 to 1976, what was (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of first-year apprentices engaged for (i) Telecom Australia, and (ii) Australia Post. 
In 1977, what is (a) the total number of apprentices employed and (b) the total number of apprentices engaged in each Branch of the Department for (i) Telecom Australia, and (ii) Australia Post. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
Did any Minister, Government official, or any agent of a Minister or Government official, at any time guarantee a cheque used by  Mr Wylie  Fancher to purchase a ticket for overseas travel, with a departure date of January 1976, from the Cairns office of an Australian airline; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
Has the Australian Federation of Air Pilots asked the Federal Government to approve the construction of at least one new runway at Brisbane Airport as a matter of urgency; if so, has the Government agreed to the request. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. In the Minister's reply to a question by  Senator Martin  last Wednesday, does he recall claiming that schools in certain States of Australia were approaching, and in some cases had achieved, standards set by the Karmel Committee in 1973? Is it not a fact that the Karmel report regarded these objectives as minimum acceptable targets' and in no way suggested that the achievement of those targets would produce a satisfactory standard of education in Australia? In view of the Government's decision to freeze expenditure on education this year and to effect cuts in certain areas, are we to assume that the Government has no intention of trying to improve Australian schools over and above the minimum targets set by Professor Karmel? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2), returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
-I present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That it has come to our knowledge that  Mrs Joan  Kirner, a member of the Schools Commission, has been subjected to grossly unfair and unfounded criticism for carrying out her duties as a member of that Commission. 
That this criticism has been aimed at forcing  Mrs Kirner  to remain silent when we believe it is her duty to speak out. 
That  Mrs Kirner  has the complete confidence of the Australian Council of State Schools Organisations which body she represents, as well as that of your humble petitioners. 
We therefore ask that the Government and the Minister for Education take notice of the splendid work done by  Mrs Joan  Kirner in her capacity as part-time member of the Schools Commission. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Education and refer to the Minister's reply to  Senator Ryan's  question yesterday when, in relation to the services and development program and special projects program he said: 
The Schools Commission recommended that rather than a $4m cut a cut of $3.5m would be sustainable in that program. 
Is it a fact that Government guidelines to the Schools Commission in June 1977 said in part: 
The Government suggests that the Commission seeks to achieve savings of the order of $4m on the programs for services and development and for special projects. 
Is it a fact that the Commission reported that it believed that this guideline was, in fact, a direction? Further, did the Commission report that the full $4m cut would have been so severe as to damage seriously the program's effectiveness? Did the Commission report that the two programs should sustain $3.5m of the cuts which were required to provide funds for nongovernment schools? Is there not a vast difference between the meaning of the words of the Commission 'should sustain $3.5m of the cuts' and the Minister's reply yesterday when he said 'a cut of $3.5m would be sustainable'? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2), returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
Despite the fact that it is now close to 12 months since a decision was made in relation to ending sand mining on Fraser Island, several aspects of the decision still remain unresolved. One of these aspects is the compensation for mining companies. There is also the aspect of employment opportunities and possible compensation for those who lost their jobs because of the decision which was made in relation to Fraser Island. This evening I intend to address myself to the latter aspect, that is, the possible employment opportunities and possible compensation to those who have lost their job because of the decision about Fraser Island. I think this aspect has been forgotten in the debate on Fraser Island. Much of the debate has centred on the total economic region of Maryborough and Fraser Island and on the mining companies but not on the people who had been working on Fraser Island prior to sand mining ceasing and who lost theirjobs. 
In discussing the problems which were and are faced by these people, it is important to try to discover how many were affected. There are varying estimates of how many people came to be affected because of the Fraser Island decision. Almost 12 months ago, on 11 November 1976, the  Courier-Mail  quoted the DM Minerals purchasing officer,  Mr Frank  Grant, as saying that at least 300 workers were affected. In the same issue of the  Courier-Mail,  other statements were made by other prominent people. These claims seemed to indicate that  Mr Grant's  claim was correct. Shortly before that article appeared in the  Courier-Mail,  a document was prepared by the Maryborough District Development Board. It was prepared and circulated on 8 November 1976. It was signed by six local dignitaries, including the Mayor of Maryborough,  Mr Jock  Anderson. This document stated, among other things, that in Maryborough and district 300 people will be directly thrown on to the labour market. This, of course, was before the decision was made. It  is  pointed out that in addition to those 300 who would be thrown on to the labour market at that stage there were 916 people unemployed in that area. 
Later the following month- in fact on Christmas Eve- the  Courier-Mail  reported that 200 miners had already left Fraser Island and that more were to follow. The 200 who had left were from DM Minerals and the others who were to leave shortly after were from Queensland Titanium Mines. It seems that the general consensus is that there were about 300 people involved. In January this year, the Queensland Government claimed that 400 people were affected The State Government, in fact, disputed the Federal Government's claim that there were about 250 people involved. I do not wish to be precise about the number of people who were affected, but suffice it to say that there were somewhere between 250 and 400. The majority opinion seems to be that about 300 people were affected. 
It is pertinent to look also at how many people are still unemployed because of this decision. One would expect that by now, 12 months later, most people would have found employment. I do not have recent statistics on this aspect, but I do have statistics, which were supplied in an answer to a question asked in August, which states that some people are still unemployed. I asked the then Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  who represented the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  this question: 
How many former employees of sandmining operations on Fraser Island are currently registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service: (a) in Maryborough; and (b) elsewhere. 
The reply I received stated: 
As at 23.8.77, 19 former employees of sandmining operations on Fraser Island were registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service at Maryborough and 6 at Gympie. Some could be registered with other offices of the CES but there is no way of identifying these. 
I think it is important to understand that it is still not possible to get full statistical information because the Commonwealth Employment Service cannot say how many people who were employed in the sand mining industry are still registered for employment with other offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service. I assume that a number of people from the Maryborough and Fraser Island district have moved to Brisbane and perhaps to other cities within the State and perhaps even interstate. So it is not unreasonable to expect that some of those people are still unemployed about 12 months later. One of the reasons which prompted me to raise this matter tonight is that little information is available. From what I have seen in Queensland, it seems that the Federal and State Governments have done little to assist in finding jobs for displaced miners. It is important for a number of reasons that both governments do their utmost to help people find work when they are out of work. But in this instance people found themselves out of work because of an environmental issue. Perhaps this is the first time that this happened in Australia. Because of a decision which was made, they found themselves out of a job. 
In December last year the Federal Government made $ 10m available in a grant. This $ 10m went to the State Government to provide relief work. One million dollars was made available immediately and the remainder was to follow. But it became obvious that this was not sufficient. In fact, I quote what the Mayor of Maryborough, Alderman Jock Anderson, said at the time the announcement was made that the $10m would be available with $ 1 m to be immediately available. He said that the $ 1 m grant would open up work for a short period only. The Maryborough District Development Board secretary/ manager, Alderman Jurss said that the Commonwealth's offer was disappointingly low, that the Government had offered less than $1 a head for every man, woman and child in Australia. He continued: 
The Federal Government expects the citizens of Maryborough to buy Fraser Island for the future enjoyment of all Australians. 
I digress to comment on  Mr Jurss'  statement. In the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry report it was made quite clear that, if a decision were to be made about Fraser Island, it was not a decision which should be financed by the people of Fraser Island or the people of the Maryborough district. It was a decision which would be beneficial for a number of people throughout Australia and therefore any economic burden should not rest on the people of Maryborough and district but on the people of Australia as a whole.  Mr Nixon  said at the time the decision was made: 'Employment will be found for everyone'. He went on to say: 
This will put new life into Maryborough. 
It has been a most unfortunate incident. 
I regret it had to occur. 
I am not debating the issue of sand mining on Fraser Island; but what  Mr Nixon  said about employment being found for everyone was not correct, at least as at August of this year, because the statistics then- some seven or eight months later- showed that some people were still out of work because of this decision. 
I also was prompted to speak because of a letter which was. received by me and I believe by most honourable senators and members of the House of Representatives and by a number of members of the Queensland Parliament. This letter came from the Ex-Sandminers Area Relief Committee. It sets out quite well what the former sand miners say their case is in that they believe that relief should be given to the sand miners as well as to the companies involved. With your concurrence,  Mr President,  and the concurrence of the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster),  I seek leave to have incorporated - 
-I recognised it fully. With the concurrence of yourself,  Mr President,  the Minister and the remainder of the Senate, I seek leave to have this letter incorporated in  Hansard. 

 The letter read as follows- 

EX-SANDMINERS AREA RELIEF COMMITTEE 
20 North Street, 
Maryborough 4650 2 August 1977 
We are appealing to any member of the Federal Government with some human decency to present a motion to the Parliament for 6 months' compensation for the exemployees of D.M. Minerals and Q.T.M., and for all other members to support him or her. 
We earnestly request that you take the time to read the following somewhat lengthy letter, as we have to state our case. 
Sandmining on Fraser Island came to a halt on Government orders, on 24 December 1976. The Federal Government decided a payment of $ mm to the Queensland Government over three years would be adequate compensation for the loss of a viable industry. Despite petitions and delegations, personal compensation to the employees was not considered necessary, even though the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry recommended this. 
In the 7 months since that decision it is clear that the money is insufficient to keep only 51 ex-sandminers fully employed (7 have been put off already). The total number of sandminers and employees of direct sub-constractors was 400. 21 ex-sand miners are still unemployed in Maryborough-Hervey Bay alone, plus a further number in Tin Can Bay and Gympie, and many husbands have left their families behind to obtain work elsewhere. ( Real cases of hardship can be presented, if you are interested, to support these facts. One is appended as a sample). 
Positive results have come for one section of the community affected by the closure. Sub-contractors are now being compensated to the extent of 12 months earnings, estimated on an escalated scale from 1976 figures. Naturally this is pleasing for the community in general, but it still leaves the workers, including employees of those subcontractors, forgotten- those least financially equipped to cope with a sudden wage loss. 
Comments from  Hansard  from the following members all stress that adequate compensation should be paid to the workers: 
Hon. T. Uren, Hon. M. H. Cass, Hon. K. E. Newman, P. C. Millar, Hon. K. Cairns, C. L. Carige. 
As an example, we quote: Hon. T. Uren, 10 November 1976,  Hansard,  page 2577. 
I give an undertaking on behalf of the Labor Party that we will support a fair go for the workers and the people of the region of Wide Bay, irrespective of politics and irrespective of State issues. It is important that they get justice and that they should not have to pay for this momentous decision alone'. 
However in recent months no-one has expressed much interest in our plight, and as in almost every case wages have dropped at least 30 per cent, the situation is becoming critical. 
What we seek is 6 months severance pay for all former employees of D.M. Minerals, Q.T.M. and sub-contractors. There have been precedents in other circumstances, but to our knowledge, this is the first time people have been thrown out of work on environmental grounds. The cost of this compensation, about $750,000, is approximately equal to the money granted to the Australian Conservation Foundation since 1973, and therefore we feel, not exorbitant to ask of the Government. 
A copy of this letter has been sent to all members of the House of Representatives and the Senate. If you have read this far, we thank you for your attention and would appreciate a prompt reply. But far rather, we would appreciate your wholehearted support in our bid for an open debate on the floor of the House. 
-I thank the Senate. I would like to mention in detail one part of that letter in which the sand miners set out that there is a case for them to receive what they call severance pay. The relevant part of that letter reads: 
What we seek is six months severance pay for all former employees of D.M. Minerals, QTM and sub-contractors. There have been precedents in other circumstances, but to our knowledge, this is the first time people have been thrown out of work on environmental grounds. The cost of this compensation, about $730,000, is approximately equal to the money granted to the Australian Conservation Foundation since 1 973, and therefore, we feel, not exorbitant to ask of the Government. 
It seems that there are precedents for severance pay being paid to people who have lost their jobs in certain circumstances. I quote from an article which appeared in the  Canberra Times  on 14 July 1976. It is headed '85 staff to lose jobs when hostels close ' and reads: 
Eighty-five people would be retrenched when three Commonwealth hostels in the ACT closed on 24 July, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development,  Mr Newman,  says in a letter to the Member for Canberra,  Mr Haslem. 
The article continues: 
Retrenched staff will, of course, be eligible for income maintenance payments for a period of six months, and guests have been offered alternative accommodation. 
The sand miners in Maryborough were quite interested in this situation in which some people receive a type of severance pay or income maintenance. They believe that in their circumstances, having been thrown out of work because of a decision which was made on environmental grounds, there is a strong moral case for them. 
-Senator Wright should know me. I cannot hear him very well. 

 -If Senator Wright cannot understand me very well, that does not worry me one little bit. 
I am sure that the other honourable senators understand quite well what I am saying. The miners feel that little has been done for them and they believe that this is not only a function of the Federal Government but also a function of the Queensland Government. I am often upset by the fact that the Government in Queensland all too often is content to criticise the Federal Government and to lay the blame at the door of Canberra instead of co-operating with the Federal Government to see that something is done. There seems to have been a lack of consultation between the two governments as well. One might recall that the Queensland Government itself refused to appear before the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry. 
But, all that aside, there are still real problems for the sand miners. If we look at the matter carefully we will see that some of the sand miners became not only financially embarrassed but also bankrupt. Some of them actually lost some of their possessions because of the decision. It is important, not only for the sand miners themselves at the moment who still need assistance but also for people who are going to find themselves in a similar position, that some guidelines be laid down so that this does not happen again. I sometimes wonder how much thought was given to this aspect prior to the decision. I will not quote it in detail, but apparently an interdepartmental committee on behalf of the Federal Government made a report on the problems of Fraser Island. In reply to letters from the people in the area and in reply to a letter from me, the Minister was not able to say anything about what was in that IDC report. I will not dwell on that because it is usual that IDC reports remain confidential; but sometimes I wonder to what depth this program was investigated before it commenced. 
In conclusion I reiterate the severance pay proposal put forward by the sand miners. They are seeking six months severance pay for all former employees of D.M. Minerals, Queensland Titanium Mines and sub-contractors. I hope that the Government will treat the suggestion as a serious one. It is still not too late to look at the problems which the people in that area face. If the Government will investigate all the possibilities, not only in respect of Fraser Island and the Maryborough district but also as regards any future decision which may affect the livelihood of people in this area, this investigation will be worth while. I would just like to quote part of the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry report. One paragraph of that report reads: 
The Commission recommends that appropriate steps be taken in conjunction with the Queensland Government to provide whatever economic or other assistance is required to the region concerned to make good any losses which may be sustained as a result of decisions which may be made following the consideration of this report. 
This comment would fully cover the prospect of compensation for miners themselves. I urge the Government, even at this late stage, to look into the problem which is being faced by these people. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
1 ) What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74)(c) 1974-75;(d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
) Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in ( 2 ), returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) When does the Minister expect the Summary of the 1971 Census results for the new Federal electorate boundaries to be completed by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
Will the Minister assure the Senate that the summary will be undertaken as a matter of the highest priority. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76; and(e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2), returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 24 August 1977: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the article Norma Tullo Ends  Her  Reign- For Want of Australian Wool Fabric', published in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 18 August 1977, which referred to the paucity of woollen fabrics available in Australia; if so, what action, if any, is the Government taking to stimulate the production of woollen fabrics within Australia. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Social Security. The Minister will recall that I sent a telegram to her yesterday in relation to the unemployment benefit entitlements of laid-off vehicle builders in Queensland. In view of the uncertainty facing these vehicle builders and the apparently confusing advice being given to them, I ask: Is the Minister now in a position to advise whether unemployment benefit will be payable to Queensland vehicle builders laid off because of the Victorian power dispute? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2), returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2), returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
Has the Federal Government decided to meet the costs of a medical orderly for the former Liberal Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, as reported in The Sydney  Sun-Herald  of 1 1 September 1977; if so, (a) what is the estimated annual cost of providing the medical orderly; (b) is there a precedent for this decision; (c) who made the decision to provide the medical orderly; (d) was the provision of a medical orderly recommended by the personal medical attendant to  Sir Robert  Menzies; if so, what are the details; and (e) was a means test applied before the decision was reached for the Commonwealth to meet the cost involved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) l973-74;(c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2), returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
Are 85 retrenched staff of government hostels eligible for income maintenance payments for six months following the Government's decision to close certain hostels, as reported in the  Canberra Times  on 14 July 1976; if so, (a) what are the details of the income maintenance paymentsconcerned and (b) why were persons employed by sandmining companies on Fraser Island not eligible for income maintenance payments for six months following the Government 's decision to ban sandmining on Fraser Island. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2), returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2), returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried into the succeeding financial year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
1 ) What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2), returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
1 ) What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
) Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2) returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2), returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (c) 1974-75 (d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2), returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
asked the Minister for Science the following question on notice on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76 and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2), returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
Has the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development investigated logging activities on Fraser Island; if so, (a) is the Department completely satisfied that logging activities are not harming the environment on Fraser Island; and (b) if the answer to (a) is no, what action does the Minister propose taking. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2), returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
1 ) What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2), returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2), returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 20 October 1977: 
When may a final reply be expected to question without notice concerning  Mr Dennis  Williams asked by  Senator Colston  on 4 October 1977 (Hansard, page  1008). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
1 ) What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encom- passed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1 973-74; (c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, of any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) . remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent as listed in (2) returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
How many citizens of (i) Bundaberg and (ii) Hervey Bay are currently in receipt of a totally and permanently incapacitated pension. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
Has agreement been reached between the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Government on the provision of full trading rights in Queensland waters to the Australian National Line, following the announcement by the Queensland Premier on 25 April 1977 that the Queensland Cabinet had lifted restrictions on the operation of the Australian National Line in Queensland; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister; if so, (a) what are they, (b) who are the bankers for each authority and (c) which, if any, of the authorities may be termed 'statutory authorities of a business nature'. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 25 August 1 977: 
What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (d) 1975-76; and(e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2), returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 August 1977: 
With respect to the Prime Minister's reply to question No. 190 (Senate  Hansard,  26 April 1977, page 977), what additional cost was incurred by engaging a Melbourne florist rather than utilising the services of Canberra florists. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Ministers portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2), re- - turned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
-I ask the Minister for Education whether he is aware that, in its latest annual report to his Queensland counterpart, the Queensland Board of Advanced Education stated that there was a continuing lag in Queensland's tertiary participation rate in relation to the national average and that the Commonwealth is continuing to give relatively inequitable treatment to Queensland in the funding of tertiary education? Is it a fact that, due to Federal Government restrictions on education funding, a reduction of the order of 8 per cent had to be made in the number of student places envisaged for colleges of advanced education in Queensland in the three years 1977 to 1979? If so, can the colleges in Queensland look forward to receiving more consideration in the future? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 11 October 1977: 
1 ) What are the details of the independent survey of Brisbane's public transport needs, to be financed by the State and Federal Governments, announced by the Queensland Minister for Transport on 3 October 1977. 
What contribution will the Federal Government be making to the survey. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respecitve financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2), returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
1 ) What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2), returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice, on 2 5 May: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Minister; if so, (a) what are they, (b) who are the bankers for each authority, and (c) which, if any, of the authorities may be termed "statutory authorities of a business nature". 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a Queensland Fisheries Department report, reference to which was made in the Brisbane  Sunday Mail  dated 8 May 1977, which apparently claims that Taiwanese poachers have destroyed most of the giant clam population on a section of the Great Barrier Reef; if so, (a) what are the details of the damage concerned and (b) what action, if any, does the Minister intend taking over this matter. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Education been drawn to a statement by Bishop F. P. Carrol, the  chairman  of the National Catholic Education Commission in  The Leader  of 16 October 1977 in which he stated: 
While we recognise that reasons can be advanced for the allocation of $2m to schools in levels one and two we believe that additional recurrent funding in 1978 might more appropriately have been distributed across a wider range of nongovernment schools. 
Does the Minister agree that Bishop Carrol's assertion that the $2m in question may have been more appropriately distributed across a wider range of non-government schools? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2), returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
This morning at Question Time my colleague from Queensland,  Senator McAuliffe,  raised a very serious matter. When he asked his question he spoke of what I consider to be an outrageous statement by the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  In his question this morning,  Senator McAuliffe  could not canvass all the facts surrounding this matter. Therefore, I wish to take some of the time of the Senate tonight to outline what the Premier of Queensland said in Mount Isa. The Premier was at Mount Isa yesterday. He was speaking of the finance for the Lake Julius dam project. He is reported to have said that finance would not be available for the Mount Isa City Council if the National Party candidate in the forthcoming State election was not returned. This is quite a serious matter. It is virtually a threat to the people of Mount Isa that if they do not return the National Party candidate they will have no water for their town. I shall return to this matter shortly. 
This is not the first time in the current campaign that the Premier of Queensland has made such statements. Recently he visited the islands in the Torres Strait, where he is reported to have made a similar statement. In the  Courier-Mail  of 25 October Peter Trundle, who is a well known and respected journalist for the  Courier-Mail,  reported: 

 Mr Bjelke-Petersen 's main message, apart from his work on the border issue, was in effect: 
Put Eric Deeral in, or you 11 have an Opposition Member who will get next to nothing'. 
-Earlier tonight, when I made arrangements to speak on the adjournment, I said that I did not think this was necessarily a matter that had to be replied to by a Minister. I wanted to use this forum to outline what occurred at Mount Isa. I have just quoted from the  Courier-Mail  which reported the Premier's comments about Eric Deeral. For those who do not know the current political situation in Queensland, I point out that he is a National Party member. Even in the Torres Strait a couple of weeks ago  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  was making these sorts of comments about National Party candidates. In both cases he was referring to current National Party members. 
Let me return to the Premier's now infamous outburst at Mount Isa yesterday. It was reported in the  Courier-Mail  this morning. I shall read the whole article because certain of my later comments will require that all the article be read. The article is headed 'Burns Says Joh Using Blackmail on Hustings'. It states: 
The Premier  (Mr Bjelke-Petersen)  said yesterday that State aid for Lake Julius Dam would not necessarily continue if Mount Isa electors threw out National M.L.A.  (Mr Bertoni). 
He was immediately accused of outrageous blackmail tactics by the Opposition Leader  (Mr Burns)  who said he was stunned by the statement. 
He has said that if the people don't vote for his man they won 't get money for the dam,  Mr Burns  said. 
Today his staff would check the Electoral Act to see whether the Premier breached the rules. 

 Mr Bjelke-Petersen made the remark at a press conference in Mount Isa to discuss the long disputed issue of dam finance. 
The State has committed $1 1,600,000 to the project. 
The people of Mount Isa have not had to pay one cent in interest or redemption payments,' he said. 
We've played our pan and we will aga q give it top priority while  Mr Bertoni  is in. ' 
Asked whether the situation would change if any other candidate won the election,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  said: 'You can read it that way if you like. 
While I've got a worker for my party here in Mount Isa, we will always play our part. 
Any other candidate will have no access to me at all. ' 
The ALP candidate in Mount Isa for the November 12 election is  Mr A.  Pavusa whose party thinks he can beat  Mr Bertoni. 

 Mr Burns said the Premier, having suppressed freedom of expression, was now trying to stop freedom of choice as far as a vote was concerned. 
He is telling electors that if they don't vote for  Mr Bertoni  they will get nothing. This is standover tactics. 
He has gone too far, just as I have always feared and warned that he would . This is an extremist attitude 
Someone has to put a brake on him. The Liberals and his own party have to make it clear that this sort of thing is not acceptable'. 
Perhaps the most important part of that article is two paragraphs. I shall repeat them. They state: 
While I've got a worker for my party here in Mount Isa, we will always play our part. 
Any other candidate will have no access to me at all. ' 
That is a clear indication that the Premier was saying to the people of Mount Isa that the money for their water supply was virtually doomed if they returned anyone but  Mr Bertoni.  Unlike  Mr Burns,  I was not stunned. I know  Mr BjelkePetersen  only too well. I have seen him on the campaign trail before. I know the sort of outlandish statements he makes. This time he has really gone too far. 

 Mr Burns in his statement, as reported in the  Courier-Mail  this morning, called on Liberals and National Party members to disown the statements that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  had made. The only response so far has been from  Mrs McComb,  the  President  of the Liberal Party in Queensland. Perhaps there is a reason why  Mr Knox  has not replied. Some of us know that unfortunately  Mr Knox  was injured fairly seriously in an accident. 
-Yesterday, I believe. That might be the reason why he has not replied.  Mrs McComb  replied in the Brisbane  Telegraph  tonight. That newspaper carried an article entitled 'Top Lib. Blasts Joh'. In part it read as follows: 
A threat by Premier  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  to withdraw finance from an electorate if it was wo'n by Labor was criticised by Liberal Party  President Mrs Yvonne  McComb today. 

 Mrs McComb said, 'I am very unhappy about this sort of thing. 
It is a very disturbing element in politics if the reports are correct', she said. 'We strongly acknowledge the role and rights of the Opposition.' 

 Mrs McComb said that everyone should get value for their tax money regardless of how they voted. 
How succinctly and how well  Mrs McComb  put it. I think what she was saying reflected the thoughts of many members other party. I would hope that she was reflecting also the thoughts of many members of the National Party throughout Queensland.  Mr Burns,  like my colleagues and I, considers the Premier's actions to be very serious indeed. The very basis of democracy is threatened if we have the threat of reprimand hanging over us for the way in which we vote at an election. 

 Mr Burns has decided to take this matter further. I want to outline to the Senate tonight the sorts of actions that he has taken. I shall commence by reading a statement that he has issued to the Press and follow it up with a letter that he has sent to one of the Munsters in Queensland. The reason why I read earlier the whole of the article in the  Courier-Mail  is that  Mr Burns'  letter refers to part of it. The statement issued today by  Mr Burns  reads: 
The Opposition Leader  (Mr Burns)  today lodged a complaint with the Justice Minister  (Mr Lickiss)  concerning yesterday's election campaign statement in Mount Isa by the Premier  (Mr Bjelke-Petersen). 
He claimed reports indicated  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  was threatening Mount Isa voters with a government withdrawal of funds if they did not vote for the National Party member. According to reports the Premier at a Press conference threatened to remove government assistance to the Julius Dam project unless the National Party member was returned.' 
This is a clear example of political intimidation and blackmail aimed at denying Queenslanders their democratic right of election choice ',  Mr Burns  said. 
He said legal advice indicated in such circumstances  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  had breached section 102 of the Criminal Code in relation to detriment against voters. 

 Mr Bjelke-Petersen demands constantly that there is no favouritism for anyone under law so there is no reason why it should not apply equally to himself. ' 
Only recently his Government prosecuted a trade union official for allegedly threatening a detriment to an employer.' 
I cannot imagine in the case of Mount Isa any greater threat or detriment than removing the source of the city's water supply from its people and industries. ' 
It is distressing in this election when the National-Liberal parties are prepared to resort to this type of fear on electors to conceal their own economic mismanagement',  Mr Burns  said. 

 Mr Burns wrote a letter to the Attorney-General in Queensland. The letter reads: 
Leader of the Opposition, Parliament House, Brisbane, 4000. 
The Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs  (Senator Carrick)  has goaded me into making a few comments in the Committee stage. I do not know whether he remembers but when I started speaking this afternoon I said that I would speak to the Bill and that I would keep my speech as non-political as I possibly could. I thought I did so. I outlined some of the reasons for Queensland being a claimant State. 
-I have 15 minutes to get to my point,  Senator. I  will use it if you goad me like that. 
-I ask the Minister for Education: Using firstly the guidelines for the education commissions as announced on 20 May 1976 and, secondly, the guidelines as announced on 3 June 1977, can the Minister advise what is the estimated total difference between projected expenditures for 1978 and 1979 for the various education commissions under these two sets of guidelines? 
-I ask the Minister for Science: Is it a fact that damage caused to Australian crops by the spotted alfalfa aphid could cost over $50m a year? Is it also a fact that even with the setting up of a co-ordinated campaign by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and State agriculture departments, it will be three to four years before the pest can be controlled? If that is so, does the Minister have available any further information on the spotted alfalfa aphid? 
The main purpose of the Queensland Grant (Special Assistance) Bill 1977, now being debated by the Senate, is to authorise payments to Queensland of $24.8m in special grants. These grants are in accordance with the recommendations set out in the 44th report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. At this stage I mention that the Grants Commission was appointed on 17 July 1933. It made its first report on 25 July 1934, covering applications made by South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. Those facts prompt me to recall some words of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in his second reading speech, when he said: 
The Commission's recommendations in relation to the special grants arrangements have been adopted by the Parliament each year since the Commission's inception and the Government considers that they should be accepted on this occasion. 
The fact that the grants have been adopted each year by the Parliament I think is a remarkable achievement and one which we should continue to follow. As a senator for Queensland, certainly I support the payment of this grant, but if I were a senator from any other State or indeed if this grant was for another State I would still support it because of the way in which the grants are determined. 
Unfortunately, when the Bill was being discussed in the House of Representatives the debate degenerated into a political slanging match. For instance, at one stage the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  referred to  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  as a bushranger. I suspect that recent events in politics, especially in Queensland and I suppose in the Federal sphere, because an election is coming up, could goad members into taking a political stance on this BUI, but I do not intend to do that. Some people might say that I am a little cynical in my approach because of the remarks that I made last night, but those remarks were quite separate from this BUI, which is too important to be fettered by party political discussion. I intend to debate the BUI as such and not to be party political about it. Certainly I might differ from some of my colleagues who will speak after me, but I intend to outline the general approach followed by the Commonwealth Grants Commission and the reason why the grant is being made to Queensland. 
The existence of the Commonwealth Grants Commission acknowledges the fact that some States suffer financial disabilities by comparison with New South Wales and Victoria, the two standard States. In other words, it acknowledges the fact that there is inequality among the States. The general principle of the Commonwealth Grants Commission is to investigate that financial disability, when a request is made for it to do so, and to ensure that people in one State enjoy similar services to those provided to then* peers in other States. One of the great strengths about our Federation is that we can minimise the inequalities among the States, using the Commonwealth Grants Commission, as well as other measures, as a vehicle. It is fairly easy to see why Queensland is at a disadvantage in relation to the two standard States. May I outline some of the reasons. If one looks at the population of Queensland and the populations of New South Wales and Victoria, one wil see a disadvantage there for a start. The population of Queensland at 30 June 1976 was 2.1 million, the population of Victoria was 3.7 million, and the population of New South Wales was 4.9 million. The disadvantage that accrues from the lower population in Queensland by comparison with Victoria and New South Wales is that less taxation revenue is due to Queensland because of its lower population, and indeed the Grants Commission takes that into account. 
In addition, not only does Queensland have a smaller population but also it has a larger area. It is the second largest State in the Commonwealth in terms of area. The area of Queensland is 1.7 million square kilometres, that of Victoria 0.2 million square kilometres and New South Wales 0.8 million square kilometres. In other words, not only does Queensland have a lower population but also it has a much vaster area that the State Government has to service. As well, it is a highly decentralised State. Those who can picture the map of the east coast of Queensland wil know that there are major centres of population extending from Brisbane to Cairns. Indeed, there are some reasonably heavily populated places north of Cairns. But all along the east coast from Brisbane to Cairns there are major centres of population. If one travels by air from Brisbane to Cairns one travels 1,435 kilometres, which is a long distance when compared with those in the standard States of New South Wales and Victoria. One can go from Brisbane to another city in Queensland and travel even further. The distance from Brisbane to Mount Isa by air is 1,580 kilometres. The fact that such vast distances are involved puts Queensland at a disadvantage in terms of providing services equivalent to those provided m the standard States. 
When the Commonwealth Grants Commission looks at all these factors it draws attention to the fact that some States must have their income supplemented because of revenue needs and expenditure needs. Part of the forty-fourth report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission brings this fact out. Paragraph 1.5 states: 
To enable a claimant State to function at a standard not appreciably below that of other States without having to levy taxation and other charges of greater severity than in those other States, its revenue needs to be supplemented because of: 
a) its lower capacity to raise taxes and other revenue; and 
its need to incur higher costs in order to provide comparable governmental services. 
These are referred to as revenue needs and expenditure needs respectively. 
The Commonwealth Grants Commision in determining the revenue needs and expenditure needs has hearings at which it is able to elicit information on these details and also uses statistical data available to it. Then the claimant State has these needs determined by the Grants Commission. In determining these needs the Grants Commission, of course, refers the claimant State to the two standard States. Queensland is now the only claimant State to the Grants Commission. On 30 September 1971 Queensland applied for a special grant for the year 1971-72. It has been a claimant State ever since. 
I mention the other non-standard States and indicate when they ceased to be claimant States. South Australia ceased to be a claimant State on 1 July 1975. This was as a result of an agreement between the Commonwealth and South Australian governments in relation to the transfer of the non-metropolitan South Australian railway system. Tasmania made, but later withdrew, applications for special grants for 1974-75 and 1975-76. In reality, Tasmania ceased to be a claimant State in 1974. Tasmania's withdrawal as a claimant State was the result of other additional finances being made available to Tasmania. The only other non-standard State which 
I have not mentioned is Western Australia. It was last a claimant State in 1 968-69. 
I mentioned earlier that the Grants Commission determines revenue needs and expenditure needs for the States or, in this case, for the State which is a claimant State. I mentioned that what the Grants Commission assessed to be the revenue needs for Queensland for 1975-76 is shown in its forty-fourth report. Queensland's revenue needs were grouped under three main headings- firstly, taxation; secondly, land revenue; and thirdly, rnining revenue. Under taxation the Grants Commission assessed the revenue need for Queensland as being $103,251,000. How this sum was determined is set out in the forty-fourth report. What is important to note is that in general this need was because of the lower population in Queensland. There were some other minor factors as well but population was the greatest factor. 
With land revenue and mining revenue there are significant differences. The Grants Commission considered that there was a negative need in these two cases. In other words, Queensland had an above standard revenue capacity for land and mining. Its capacity was higher than that of the standard States of New South Wales and Victoria. For land revenue there was a negative need of $9,323,000. For mining revenue the negative need was even greater, namely, $32,113,000. So from the assessed revenue needs for Queensland these two negative needs were subtracted. The assessed revenue need for Queensland thus was a net $61,815,000. The expenditure needs for Queensland were also grouped under a number of headings. These were: Social services, business undertakings, debt charges and another group called other net expenditure. The assessed expenditure needs were all positive. In other words, Queensland was at a disadvantage in each of these cases. The total assessed expenditure needs for Queensland was $84,654,000. The revenue needs and expenditure needs are summed to find out the total needs. But that is not the grant which is recommended by the Grants Commission. From that amount nas to be subtracted the amounts made available for needs which have been met by other Commonwealth grants. This was done in the case of Queensland to determine a total need of $35. 8m. It is on the basis of the $35.8m that this Bill is before the Parliament Of course, advance grants had been paid some time before of $25m. This meant a total completion grant for 1975-76 of $10.8m. 
I mentioned earlier that the total amount recommended for payment by the Grants Commission was $24.8m. The difference between the $ 10.8m which I have just mentioned and the $24.8m consists of an advance grant for 1977-78. I am pleased to be able to support the recommendation of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I am especially pleased that the recommendation is for a grant of $24. 8m to Queensland. I can remember how, as a Queensland public servant, I assisted in preparing part of the case for Queensland. In previous years I had appeared before one of the Grants Commission hearings. I suppose because of my association with helping to prepare a case and because I appeared as a witness before the Grants Commission I had a more than special interest in the Grants Commission and its findings. I urge those honourable senators who are interested in this aspect of CommonwealthState financial relations to study the 44th report. If members of the House of Representatives had studied carefully the 44th report some of the grossly erroneous statements which were made in the debate in that House would not have been made. I refer to statements which indicated that certain people thought that because of certain things which Queensland was doing about taxation policies it should not be entitled to this grant. The 44th report sets out clearly why this grant was recommended and points out that even though some of the taxation policies in Queensland are different they have been taken into account. I support the Bill not only because it recommends a grant to Queensland but also because it is the type of Bill that has always received support in this Parliament. I hope that such Bills will continue to receive this support while we have claimant States. I support the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 12 October 1977: 
1 ) Did the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs tell the Leader of the Opposition, in response to a question without notice on 20 September 1 977, that he hoped that the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Act 1976 would be proclaimed shortly; if so, can the Minister indicate how much longer it will be before the Act is proclaimed. 
Has the Queensland Premier urged the Federal Government not to proclaim the Act, as was suggested in an article in the Brisbane newspaper, the  Courier Mail  dated 5 October 1977; if so (a) what action had the Queensland Government taken to bring its views on this matter to the attention of the Federal Government, and ( b ) what response has the Federal Government given to the Queensland Government 's request. 
Does the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Act 1976 constitute 'legal apartheid', as was suggested by the Queensland Premier in the  Courier Mail  dated 5 October 1977. 
Will the proclamation of the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Act 1976 lead to the creation of 'black states within the State of Queensland', as was claimed by the Queensland Premier, reported in the  Courier Mail  dated 5 October 1977. 
I did ask the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  earlier for clarification with regard to post-graduate students. Is it a fact that postgraduate students will be able to leave thenstudies and become eligible for benefits without having to wait the period of six weeks? Secondly, I must not have been explicit enough with regard to my question on special benefits. What I meant to ask was: Is there some indication of the average waiting time from date of application for special benefits to the date when special benefits are actually received by a person? 
I would like to ask two questions in relation to clause 12. Although I do not have the Act with me I presume that this is the clause that provides for an income for test to be applied to the sickness benefit. If so, could the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  advise whether her Department has made any estimate of what savings would be made due to the income test being applied to the sickness benefit? Secondly, what extra cost will be involved because women are now eligible for the sickness benefit? 
-I wish to canvass some of the areas which  Senator Grimes  has canvassed and to ask some specific questions about them. The Government said in the second reading speech, as had been said a number of times, that many people have applied for unemployment benefit after leaving school and subsequently have gone back to school after receiving that benefit. I wish to find out tonight whether the Government now can indicate the numbers of people who have done this in previous years. I refer also to clause 14, which introduces proposed section 120A(l)(a). I think it was stated earlier that a person who leaves school and who will not be eligible for unemployment benefit after this clause has been passed but who is in necessitous circumstances might become eligible for a special benefit. I ask the Minister: What time factor is involved in obtaining a special benefit, from the date of application until it is received? 
Are we to understand from proposed section 120A(l)(b) that a person who is undertaking post-graduate work will be eligible for unemployment benefit immediately upon ceasing that work if that person so chooses? With regard to that proposed sub-section, I imagine that the Director-General of the Department will issue guidelines as to what in his opinion constitutes sufficient reason for leaving a course. I am talking now about work that is not of a post-graduate nature.  Senator Grimes  spoke about this matter earlier. He mentioned a few reasons why people, with good reason, might leave their studies. Will the Director-General be issuing guidelines so that his delegates throughout the Service will be able to determine what are good reasons? If so, is it normal or would it be possible for those guidelines to be promulgated or mentioned in this place so that we will know what the guidelines are? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1977: 
With reference to the Minister's reply to Senate Question No. 1199 concerning Fraser Island  (Hansard,  6 September 1977, p. 619): (a) does the Minister's reply conflict with the statement by the Chief Justice of Australia in the High Court on 25 November 1975 (pp. 106-109 of the official transcript), which implied that the terms of reference restricted the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry to the environmental aspects of making a decision; and (b) did the Chief Justice also state that it would be an impertinence for the Commission to make any recommendation as to whether or not export permits should be granted or whether or not mining should proceed. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) What funds, if any, were allocated by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government for matters encompassed by the Minister's portfolio in (a) 1972-73; (b) 1973-74; (c) 1974-75; (d) 1975-76; and (e) 1976-77. 
What amount, if any, from (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) remained unspent by the Queensland Government at the end of each respective financial year. 
Were any funds remaining unspent, as listed in (2), returned to the Commonwealth, or were they carried over into the succeeding financial year. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Are there any statutory authorities responsible to the Treasurer; if so, (a) what are they, (b) who are the bankers for each authority and (c) which, if any, of the authorities may be termed 'statutory authorities of a business nature'. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Education. Is it likely that there will be increased competition for university places in Australia due to a combination of such factors as high youth unemployment, increased retention rates in upper secondary schools and, as outlined in the Government's guidelines to the Tertiary Education Commission, no growth in new enrolments? Due to any such increase in competition, does the Minister expect fewer university places to be offered to special entry groups, such as nonmatriculants, adult matriculants and Aborigines? 
May I just confirm that, in relation to post graduate students at colleges of advanced education- if in fact there are any and I think there are nowadays- the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  is saying that those post graduate students at colleges of advanced education should be treated equally with post graduate students at universities? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
Do any Commonwealth statutory authorities not pay stamp duty on cheques which they issue. If so, why do they not do so. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) What was the total amount of revenue collected in fuel tax in each year since 1960 in (a) Australia and (b) each State and Territory of Australia, including estimates for 1976-77 and 1977-78. 
What was the total amount of revenue from fuel tax returned to each State and Territory for use on road works. 
I would like certain aspects of the State Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Bill 1977 to be clarified. Clause 9 (5) (b) refers to the numbers of students at affiliated colleges and provides that one-half of the number of resident full time post graduate students at that student residence or affiliated college in that year shall be included in the number of residents in that particular college in addition to the full time undergraduate students. I ask the Minister: Has this been a long standing practice? 
Clause 17 (4), on page 19 of the Bill, contains no reference to post graduate students in colleges of advanced education. I imagine that there are now post graduate students at colleges of advanced education, even though they might be few in number. If there are post graduate students at colleges of advanced education, why would a similar situation not prevail for them as applies for university students at affiliated colleges? In respect of clause 28 (5) (b), I am unable to see how the amount of $132,607,000 is obtained. Would that figure have been arrived at arbitrarily, or does something in the Bill indicate that such a figure should appear in this particular clause? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 19 October 1977: 
Did the Australian Shipping Commission Authorisation Bill pass through aU stages m the Queensland Parliament on 5 October 1977; if so, when will the necessary complementary legislation be introduced into the Commonwealth Parliament 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 4 November 1977: 
What is the estimated total difference between the projected expenditures for 1978 and 1979 for the various education commissions under the guidelines announced on 26 May 1976 and 3 June 1977. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Administrative Services been drawn to statements made in the Press during the parliamentary recess by  Mr Donald  Cameron, the Liberal member for Fadden, that he has 'direct proof that a Queensland Liberal member of parliament brought pressure to bear on the federal redistribution commission? If so, has the Minister taken any steps to investigate this matter and is the Minister aware of the identity of the member of parliament to whom  Mr Cameron  refers? Finally, can the Minister inform the Senate whether the distribution commissioners in Queensland were subjected to pressure and interference by the Liberal parliamentarian referred to by  Mr Cameron? 
-In speaking for the first time in the Thirty-first Parliament I have pleasure in welcoming  Senator Haines  to the national Parliament and congratulate her on her maiden speech which she made last week.  Her  stay in this chamber will be brief. Nevertheless, I wish her well while she serves the term for which she was elected by the Parliament of South Australia. Many of the honourable senators who have made a mark in this chamber have first entered the Federal Parliament after being chosen by a State Parliament to fill a casual vacancy, just as  Senator Haines  has. There was a time in 1 975 when I thought I would enter the Senate in that way. As honourable senators know, that was not to be so. Having been rejected on political grounds by the Queensland Parliament I was subsequently elected by the people of Queensland later in 1975. At least my experience was part of the catalyst which led to the constitutional change in relation to casual vacancies in 1977. That constitutional change affected the length of tenure of office of  Senator Lewis  who was in the chamber at the time of the 1977 referendum. In that respect, therefore,  Senator Lewis  was the first person to be directly affected by the 1977 constitutional change. On the other hand,  Senator Haines  is the first person to fill a casual vacancy under the new law which resulted from the Constitution being altered in 1977. 
In one respect I was pleased to be able to listen to the Governor-General 's Speech on 2 1 February. My pleasure arose from the fact that the Governor-General, although not a Queenslander by birth, had recently spent a number of years in Queensland. In my latter years as a post-graduate student at the University of Queensland  Sir Zelman  was the ViceChancellor. In later years I came to know him much better than I had when I was a student. When I heard that  Sir Zelman  had been appointed the Queen's representative in Australia I was delighted. At that time I thought that if any person could restore dignity to the high position of Governor-General in Australia it would be  Sir Zelman.  Like many others in Australia I hope and pray that  Sir Zelman  does not let us down. Knowing him as I do I doubt that he will give us cause for disappointment. 
Before referring to the Governor-General's Speech I make one comment about a matter that was raised by  Senator Young. Senator Young  implied that there was some malapportionment of electorates in South Australia. Of course, he was referring to Federal electorates. It has been my experience that if one wants to see malapportionment of electorates one should look at Queensland. At the moment it is almost impossible in Queensland for either the Australian Labor Party to win office or for the Liberal Party to become the major party in the coalition. The answer in Queensland clearly does not lie in requesting the current coalition to ensure that there is less malapportionment of electorates in Queensland. The answer clearly is in the hands of the Liberal Party in Queensland which, if it wished, could form a loose arrangement with the Australian Labor Party to ensure that there are proper electorates in Queensland, electorates which will more properly reflect the vote that is cast and electorates which are not malapportioned as they are now. 
I turn now to the matter which is under direct consideration in this debate, the GovernorGeneral's Speech. We must remember that the Governor-General's Speech was not written by him but by the Government, so any criticism of aspects of the Speech is not a criticism of the Governor-General but of the Government. As the Governor-General began to read his Speech I was hopeful that some plan would be outlined for dealing with unemployment. Instead, we were confronted with the same old mixture as we have been confronted with over the past two years. Largely, there were words and more words but nothing to give any real hope for the future. Let us remind ourselves what the Governor-General said about unemployment. He said: 
My Government's priorities are clear. They are: 
To build on the progress we have made over the last two years, to defeat inflation and unemployment, and restore full economic health to our country. 
I hold that there has been no progress in defeating unemployment. In fact, as I shall show later, unemployment has become markedly worse over the past two years. The Governor-General in his Speech said: 
My Government rejects the notion that there can be a trade-off between inflation and unemployment. It will continue to give the highest priority to reducing inflation, for only in this way can there be a sustained reduction in unemployment. 
It would be folly for us not to recognise that there has been some reduction in inflation, but what a cost there has been in reducing it- a cost in throwing many more people out of work. There was nothing in those two statements of the Governor-General to suggest that there is any hope for the unemployed. There were some remarks about the employment and training schemes and also making the Commonwealth Employment Service more efficient, but these schemes have already been used with singular lack of success. Reorganisation of the CES should have been undertaken long ago if the Government had any wish to honour its promises in regard to unemployment. Let us look at some of the statements that have been made over the last two years and beyond by this Government about how it would put people into the work force. In 1975  Mr Fraser,  in his policy speech, said: 
Let us all as Australians determine to restore prosperity, defeat inflation and provide jobs for all. 
Since he made that statement about 163,500 more people have become unemployed. Following the return of the caretaker government in 1975, on 17 February 1976 the GovernorGeneral, in his Speech, said: 
My Government's immediate objective is to bring inflation under control so that there can again be jobs for all who want to work. 
Again we were being told that the Government's aim was to provide jobs for all people. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table entitled Unemployment Statistics January 1976, 1977 and 1978'. The table lists the unemployment figures for Australia and Queensland. I showed the table to the Minister at the table and he has indicated his willingness for it to be incorporated in  Hansard,  provided the Senate agreed. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="076232197802283_47_1.jpg"></graphic>

A comparison between 1976, when the Governor-General made the comment to which I have referred, and 1978 shows that there has been a dramatic increase in the number of unemployed. The percentage of the work force unemployed increased from 5.66 per cent to 7.2 1 per cent. I have taken the figures for January because they are the latest available. If we are to compare month with month now that there are no seasonally adjusted figures, it is important to compare like calendar month with like calendar month. This table shows how dramatic the increase has been. In my own State of Queensland the increase has been even more dramatic, being from 6.54 per cent to 8.57 per cent of the work force. We now have the worst unemployment in Australia since the Great Depression- two years after  Mr Fraser  saying that he would provide jobs for all. 
In 1976  Mr Lynch  mentioned in his Budget Speech that unemployment would soon drop. After talking about growth factors in the economy, he said: 
It would be rash to predict any earlier reduction in unemployment; movements in the remainder of the calendar year 1 976 are unlikely to be great. 
But 1 977, all going well, should see a start on a more concerted fall. 
But 1977 did not see the start of a more concerted fall. The table I incorporated in  Hansard  shows that in 1977 the figures were worse than they were in 1976. In Queensland there were more unemployed. A marginally smaller percentage of the work force was unemployed because of an increase in the work force, but 1977 did not show the fall we were looking for after that speech. In 1977  Mr Fraser,  in his policy speech, seemed to be doubting whether we would get unemployment under control. He said: 
Because of our job assistance strategy, because of the growth and development our policy has made possible unemployment will fall from February and keep falling. 
What he was saying was that unemployment would fall from February. Of course, one would expect it to fall from February or March because of the seasonal factors in the economy. He was not saying that unemployment would fall in real terms. The words 'will fall' seem to have a familiar ring. I sometimes wonder whether we shall see a fall in 1978 as we hope we shall. We now have 7.2 per cent of the work force unemployed. As I said, that is 163,500 more than when  Mr Fraser  promised in 1 975 to provide jobs for all. Words and more words have been spoken about unemployment, but we do not seem to be able to get any action. Unemployment is continuing to increase and greater and greater social distress is being experienced throughout the community. 
As I represent Queensland, I think it is incumbent on me to mention something about the unemployment situation in that State. Unemployment in Queensland can only be described as disastrous. From January 1977 to January this year unemployment increased by a massive 35 per cent in Queensland. Queensland has a greater rate of unemployment- 8.57 per centthan that of any of the other States. Of course, some areas of Queensland had increases greater than 35 per cent over the last year. Metropolitan Brisbane had an increase of 44 per cent. Other employment districts in Queensland where the increase was particularly severe were Gladstone with 38 per cent, Ayr with 39 per cent, Nambour just north of Brisbane with 42 per cent, Bundaberg with 45 per cent, Warwick with 46 per cent, Toowoomba with 65 per cent and Rockhampton with the greatest increase of all- 76 per cent. Sometimes when one looks at these figures one just wonders how high unemployment must go before the Fraser Government realises that the situation is serious. 
When unemployment is being discussed much stress is put on economic issues. I do not say that these are unimportant, but there are other issues I wish to canvass tonight. I believe these other issues are more severe and have graver consequences than the economic issues. I am referring to the social consequences of unemployment. These should be discussed in Parliament, so I intend to outline to the Senate some of the social consequences that flow from unemployment. We can quite understand that the examples we can see in the literature from overseas can be applicable to Australia as well. I refer firstly to mental illness. Substantial evidence exists of a strong link between rates of unemployment and mental illness. For example, Brenner's book  Mental Illness and the Economy,  a report of a series of studies which used unemployment as a major economic indicator, contained a good deal of evidence which indicated that the link between mental illness and unemployment exists. Because of the depth of Brenner's findings it is difficult, if not impossible, to outline an adequate summary of his book in a few minutes. Nevertheless, it may be stated that the study revealed an inverse relationship between the state of the economy and mental illness- that is, the worse the state of the economy the higher the incidence of mental illness. 
Brenner reported that three broad phenomena were associated with that inverse relationship. Firstly, the national economy was shown by his study to be the single most important source of fluctuation in mental hospital admission rates. Secondly, the relationship is so consistent for certain segments of society that virtually no major factor other than economic instability appears to influence variations in their mental hospitalisation rates. Thirdly, the relationship has been basically stable for the last 127 years, and there is considerable evidence that it has had a greater impact in the last two decades. Of course, that study was based on material collected overseas. Those who read the House of Representatives  Hansard  would know that last week one speaker quoted figures relating to Victorian mental hospitalisation rates which indicated that a connection existed between unemployment and hospitalisation rates in that State. 
In addition to mental illness but associated with it is the information to be obtained from suicide rates. Suicide is a most dramatic indicator of the connection between job security and stress. An Australian historical study shows a relationship between male suicide rates and unemployment for the period from 1901 to 1967. The study clearly indicates a positive correlation between levels of unemployment and suicide rates. A study conducted in the early 1 970s by the Victorian Mental Health Authority also showed that in two Victorian regions, one metropolitan and one provincial, attempted suicide amongst the unemployed was far greater than amongst the remainder of the community. For example, in the metropolitan region unemployed males had an attempted suicide rate of 118.6 per 10,000 compared with a rate of 2.4 for professional and managerial personnel, 14.9 for white collar workers and 23.4 for blue collar workers, the latter three categories being employed persons. Similar contrasts were shown in attempted suicide rates for females. In the provincial region the difference between the figures for unemployed and employed persons was even more marked than those I have quoted for the metropolitan region. For those who are interested in considering the study in more depth, it was documented in the  Australian and New Zealand Journal of Psychiatry  in 1 975. 
The medical practitioners in this chamber would be better able to comment on the relationship between unemployment and heart disease than a person without a medical background, but apparently there is also a correlation between the two. Physical illness, it seems, can result from periods of unemployment. In the  New Doctor  of July 1977 an article entitled 'Economic Change as a Factor in Heart Disease' showed a strong association between heart disease mortality and unemployment during the past 50 years in Australia. Heart disease mortality rates rise with unemployment and fall as employment recovers. 
When discussing the social effects of unemployment it is important that we do not forget the children of the community. Unemployment does have an effect on children in a family where unemployment is prevalent. As well as increasing tension and insecurity in the home, unemployment results in food, heating, clothing and other basic ingredients of good health being edged out of the household budget as long term commitments to rent or mortgages have to be paid. A study by the Brotherhood of St Laurence has shown that the majority of the unemployed have minimal savings. Thus it is not long before those families feel the full financial blow of unemployment, and quite often the children suffer because of it. The last consequence of unemployment with which I wish to deal, although not the only one remaining, is juvenile crime. Evidence is available which suggests a link between unemployment and juvenile crime. A South Australian Government working party on youth unemployment reported a 238 per cent increase in juvenile unemployed offenders in the period June 1 973 to June 1 976. That compared with an increase of 40 per cent for school-attending offenders and 37 per cent for work force-employed offenders. 
As I said earlier, much of the discussion on unemployment centres on economic matters. I do not consider those matters to be unimportant, but it is most important that we consider the social effects of unemployment. Many of them will be long term if unemployment remains high in the Australian community. It is not good enough for us to look at the employment figures in terms of mere statistics, compare one month with another and make comments about the unemployed as such. We must consider the people behind the statistics and the misery that is being created for a large number of people throughout the community. When we consider that the latest statistics show that 445,300 Australians are unemployed, we will realise that a large number of people, in effect many more than those figures suggest, are being affected by unemployment, and the social consequences of that unemployment are more far-reaching than the figure of almost half a million would indicate. One could say that more people within the community are unemployed than the statistics indicate, because those statistics refer only to people registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service. Even if no more people were unemployed, some of those 445,300 have families to support. Probably close to one million people in the Australian community in some way are affected because they or their breadwinner, their father or their mother are employed. We should remember those social consequences. 
I have outlined the way in which I believe the Governor-General 's Speech was deficient in not throwing any light on how we are to tackle unemployment in the community. That is not a criticism of the Governor-General, it is a criticism of the Government. I urge the Government, not only on the social grounds of which I have been speaking this evening but on all grounds, to tackle the problem with all the vigour that it can muster. If it does this, it may ensure that in two years' time we do not look at figures typical of those that I have referred to tonight and do not find that there has been a dramatic increase during that period. 
I intend to say a few words this evening about the Social Education Materials Project display that has been in this building for the last few days. I took the opportunity both yesterday and today to inspect the display and to look at some of the material exhibited. I must admit that I was impressed not only by the display itself but also by the educational materials. Having an educational background, I am probably more able to be professionally critical of the material than some other members and senators. Indeed, I do have a few mild criticisms of some of the material, but those criticisms are minor by comparison with my approval of what was displayed. I believe that it is important for this material to be available for inspection by members and senators, especially those from Queensland, because of the controversy there surrounding the SEMP material. A controversy has also surrounded material for MACOS- Man: a Course of Study- but that is a different subject altogether. It has been important for Queensland members to view the material to enable us to put into proper context what has been said about it in the Queensland Press. To talk about SEMP and discuss it without actually having seen the material means that we are talking in the abstract about an educational program, not knowing what it involves. 
Looking at the material, I formed the opinion that it was important not only for members of Parliament but also for members of the public, and particularly the people of Queensland, to be able to view the material. There has been a great deal of discussion in Queensland about this program, and I am sure that most parents who are interested in the welfare of their children at school, as well as many educationists, are not fully aware of the content of the material or the way that the program has been developed. 
Having come to that conclusion. I was interested to see in this morning's  Courier-Mail  an advertisement indicating that the program is being displayed at the Queensland Teachers Union building in Brisbane from 1 to 3 March, which means that it will be there only until tomorrow. Apparently the display is at Boundary Street, Spring Hill, in the headquarters of the Teachers Union in Brisbane. However, Boundary Street, Spring Hill, is not a particularly convenient place for people to visit. In fact, people would go to that location only if they were actually seeking out the material. I think it is important for parents and other interested people in Queensland to have the opportunity to view this material, but the majority of people will not have that opportunity when the material is at the Teachers Union building because of its location. 
I suggest to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  that he might investigate the possibility of having a display similar to the one that has been in Parliament House during the last few days set up at various locations in Queensland. If that were possible, the obvious location for such a display would be the major shopping centres in Queensland. We have a number of them in the suburban areas of Brisbane and there are also some large shopping centres in the provincial cities which have areas where such a display could be set up. I know that this would require a fair amount of organisation by the Department of Education and would probably involve some cost, but I think it is important to investigate the possibility. If people in Queensland are able to see a display such as the one we have seen they will gain a greater understanding of the material. 
At Question Time this morning the Minister said something which suggested that we would be able to convince the authorities in Queensland only by a program of education to allow the public to gain an understanding of the nature of the program. I have had letters from teachers' organisations about the SEMP program as well as about MACOS. It would probably be beyond the authority of this Parliament and the Minister to set up a display on MACOS, but having seen the display in Parliament House, I ask the Minister to consider my suggestion that a SEMP display be set up in some areas of Queensland. 
-Can the Minister for Education advise whether a meeting of the Australian Education Council was held recently in New Zealand? If so, did the Minister attend the meeting? Can he advise whether New Zealand is a member of the Australian Education Council? If it is not, can he explain why the Council met in New Zealand? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
Have representations been made to the Minister this year by a member of the House of Representatives or the Senate concerning the delays being experienced in the issuing of Social Security cheques in the Mount Isa area; if so, what were the results of those representations? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Education. Has the Assistant Director-General of the Queensland Department of Education,  Mr George  Berkeley, resigned from the council of the Curriculum Development Centre? If so, what reasons did  Mr Berkeley  give for his resignation? What action, if any, does the Minister intend to take following  Mr Berkeley's  resignation? 
It had not been my intention to enter the debate tonight in relation to certain events in Queensland and I do not intend to do so in great detail. But I feel that I should make a few remarks at the outset about the case of Bill Wood. I have known Bill Wood for a long time. Many of my colleagues are well aware of that and are probably wondering why I have not made a comment in the Senate so far about what happened to him in Queensland. There are very good reasons for my not doing so. I do not wish to canvass those reasons tonight. I announce, however, that I shall mention his case in full and when I do so the reasons why I have not mentioned the matter before will become quite evident. 
Some misleading comments have been made from my left tonight about a man called Bill Wilcox. He was a candidate for the Australian Labor Party in the State seat of Salisbury at the last Queensland election. It is said that he got his job back. The difference between Bill Wilcox and Bill Wood is that one stood at a State election and the other stood at a House of Representatives election. The person who stood at the House of Representatives election- Bill Woodhad to resign because of the requirements of the Constitution. Section 44 of the Constitution obliged him to resign. Having resigned to contest the election he was without a job. Bill Wilcox stood for a State seat and did not have those constraints placed upon him. He did not have to resign. Once he became an unsuccessful candidate he was still employed by the State Government. There was no question about that man getting his job back. There was a question about Bill Wood getting his job back. What has been meted out to Bill Wood is really an indictment of the Queensland Government. I intend to pursue the matter further in this place as part of a major speech relating to public servants having to resign if they wish to contest a Federal election. My reasons for not mentioning the matter in the Parliament before tonight will become evident at that stage. 
Tonight I wish to raise two matters relating to social security payments in Queensland. Many of us in the parliamentary sphere find that we have constituents coming to us with problems relating to social security payments. If it were not for our staff, on many occasions we just would not be able to cope. Quite often our staff are able to handle those matters which are straightforward and shield us from the excessive work load which has developed because many people are not receiving payments or are having difficulty with social security benefits. I become involved with the more complex matters in my office. With some of those complex matters I go to various lengths to try to obtain justice for people. Sometimes I am not successful. Sometimes in reviewing a case I might think that it has been dealt with according to law, that the person has been looked after properly or that the case has been considered properly and that nothing further should be done. 
The two cases which I shall mention tonight, although specific cases, bring out matters which are of general importance. The first case concerns a man who received the first news that he was not to receive unemployment benefit from the Social Security Appeals Tribunal. I am not sure why he received a note from the Social Security Appeals Tribunal first and a note from the Department of Social Security second. But that is the way it happened. He came to me after receiving both these letters. The Social Security Appeals Tribunal said, in effect, that because he had moved to a place of low employment he was not eligible to receive the unemployment benefit. Some time later this man received a letter from the Department of Social Security which said a similar thing; that is, that he had moved to an area of very poor employment prospects and therefore he could not receive any unemployment benefit. 
It was after receiving those two letters that the man came and put a case to me. In some respects it was quite a poignant case. The man had been living very close to the Brisbane area and went to a seaside resort on what we in Brisbane call the north coast. It is about 80 or 90 kilometres north of Brisbane. At first blush one would say that the man did move from an area where there were reasonable employment prospects, although that is debatable now even in Brisbane, to an area where certainly there are poor employment prospects. But he had a good reason for moving. I would like to read to the Senate what he said in his appeal to the Social Security Appeals Tribunal about the decision not to pay him the unemployment benefit. He said: 
I had my unemployment benefit terminated because I left Brisbane and went to Boreen Point. I think it is not understood that because of my medical condition, it was necessary for me to do so. When I was working at Wacol I was living with my brother but he then shifted to Boreen Point. 
It was necessary for me to go to Boreen Point with Paul because I am an alcoholic and I need family support and assistance with my problem. I could not stay with my elder brother in Brisbane because he told me to get out of his house about two years ago. 
If I had stayed in Brisbane without any family support or assistance with my problem, I am sure that my alcoholic disability would have been made much worse. When I went to Boreen Point, I was willing to take any work that was available. I emphasised that it was necessary for me to be with my brother and did not move to that area because there were low employment prospects there. I was genuinely seeking work at Boreen Point. 
Because I have not received any unemployment benefits since October - 
This appeal was made in January this year- and have had no work since then, I have now come to Brisbane to seek work. I am living with my elder brother, even though relations between the two of us are very strained. 
Relations were strained because this person was an alcoholic. He did not fit into the family well because of his problem and his brother just did not want to have him in the house. It was for this reason that he went with his brother, who was more sympathetic to his problem, to the north coast. He went so that he would have family support. I expected that the Social Security Appeals Tribunal would look into this matter carefully. The Tribunal may have done so but I expected that the result from the Tribunal would be a favourable one. The Tribunal wrote a letter dated 23 February 1978 in which it set out its findings. It stated in part: 
The Tribunal has given . . . appeal further consideration but is not able to recommend grant of Unemployment Benefit on this claim. 
The letter went on to state: 
The appeal has now been referred for the consideration of the Director of Social Security who is the final review authority under Section 1 5 of the Social Services Act. 
I do not know whether the Director of Social Security has looked at this case. It seems to me that this is a most unsympathetic decision in respect to a man who is prepared to work and who is able to work. He has overcome this problem of alcoholism provided that he has family support. He is able to work but he has to move to seek the support of his family and because of that he is denied the unemployment benefit. I ask that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  give this case further consideration to ascertain whether the points that I have raised and the points that were raised in the appeal to the Tribunal can be taken into account. 
The second case is also a rather peculiar one and, I think, raises an important matter. We know that after the present Government came to power it brought in certain regulations in relation to what happens if one leaves a job of one's own choice. Basically, if one leaves a job of one's own free will, one must wait six weeks before unemployment benefit is payable. In a case which was brought to my attention, two people left Australia on 12 December 1 975, at which time of course the new regulations could not have been made, or new guidelines established, in relation to leaving one's job and thus being ineligible until six weeks had passed for unemployment benefit. While these people were overseas they taught in Iran. They had signed a contract to work there for 12 months, but because of government policy there- I believe it was a decision that only nationals should teach in that country- the contract was terminated after 10 months. The two people concerned then returned to Australia. They could not immediately find teaching positions in Queensland and applied for unemployment benefit. 
I was astounded that, although they had left in 1975, they were denied unemployment benefit for the first six weeks, on the ground that they had voluntarily terminated their employment to go overseas. They subsequently wrote to the Social Security Appeals Tribunal and received a reply which, in part, read: 
The Social Services Act provides for the postponement of unemployment benefit in those cases where the claimant is considered to be voluntarily unemployed without good and sufficient reason. In such cases it is government policy to postpone payment for a period of six weeks. A person who leaves a job of his own accord to travel overseas and subsequently claims unemployment benefit on his return to Australia is not absolved from these postponement provisions. 
It mentions the person's name and says that he- left a position of his own accord in December 1 974 - 
I believe that should read December 1 975- in order to travel. 
It was not quite in order to travel. The person concerned went overseas to travel and work. The reply also stated: 
In these circumstances the Tribunal agrees with the decision to postpone payment of unemployment benefit for a period of six weeks. 
I doubt that the Minister could tonight give me an answer on this case, but it seems to me that if a person left Australia in 1975- about the time of the election- and before any decision had been made by the Government to provide for a sixweek waiting period before people who left a job of their own accord could obtain unemployment benefit, it is rather unfair that they should now have to wait for that period because of that decision in 1975. I leave these two cases with the Minister in the hope that they could be investigated. 
My question, which I address to the Minister for Social Security, is prompted by an article in this morning's edition of the  Canberra Times  which stated that most Commonwealth employees can expect a Christmas present of up to $2,000 by next December. The article referred to surplus contributions in the superannuation fund. In the belief that many people would appreciate extra spending money towards the end of the year will the Minister have inquiries made to see whether a Christmas bonus can be paid to Australian pensioners this year? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 21 February 1978: 
Did the Prime Minister announce in Cairns late in 1977 that the Federal and Queensland Governments had agreed to shelve negotiations on the Torres Strait border issue, but that discussions would continue on the declaration of a proposed economic zone. 
Did the Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea,  Mr Somare,  state on 9 October 1 977 that the border issue had not been shelved, and that further talks would take place. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
Is there an immigration office in Mount Isa; if not (a) who performs work for the Department of Immigration in Mount Isa; and (b) when is it anticipated that an immigration officer will be appointed in that city. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
Was a ticket obtained in November or December 1975 from TAA or Qantas for overseas travel by  Mr Wiley  Fancher; if so, who paid for the ticket and for what ports of call was the ticket issued. 
-Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to page 1 9 of the 1977 annual report of the Commissioner for Community Relations, in which details are given of a case referred to the Commissioner by a member of Parliament about another member of Parliament? If so, has the Attorney-General given consideration to the Commissioner's statement: 
The respondent member refused to co-operate with me and took action which can only be interpreted as attempted intimidation of a statutory officer in the performance of his duties. 
Is the Minister able to inform the Senate who the respondent member is? Does the AttorneyGeneral intend taking any action in relation to this matter? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 23 February 1978: 
Did the Minister state, in reply to a question without notice on 25 August 1977 (Senate  Hansard,  page 524), that the Ministerial Document Service is provided only for Press releases and speeches by Ministers and Opposition office holders; if so, why did the Ministerial Document Service distribute a press release, dated 30 January 1978, entitled  Australians 'Risk Losing the Future',  by the  Chairman  of the Australian Ethnic Affairs Council, on the letterhead of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. 

 - Mr President, when I was listening to your statement I was taken by the last sentence which you put into it and in which you asked for the co-operation of honourable members and honourable senators in the measures which were being introduced. I think, in general, you will be receiving that co-operation. One of the vital things we should do in the Senate is discuss your paper. I welcome the opportunity of being able to do so. I have some criticism on some aspects of the paper. I think my criticism is constructive and I shall mention that later on. Because I have this criticism I support the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Button  for the matter to be referred to the Privileges Committee. But I shall refer to those matters later in my remarks. Firstly I shall mention a specific matter for which I am not sure where the responsibility lies. Secondly, I shall mention some matters of general importance. Thirdly, I shall speak about those matters in which I think there is some area on which I can offer some constructive criticism. 
The first matter I mention may sound to be rather petty, but for the people involved I do not think it is.  Mr President,  I am not sure whether the responsibility is yours or one of the Ministers here or in the other place. I was informed by some of the Commonwealth car drivers that they had been told- this was supposed to start this Monday, I believe, but if not this Monday then very shortly- that they would not be permitted to enter this building. We owe a great deal to our Commonwealth car drivers, I am sure. We know that they have periods when they are waiting for us or waiting on a shuttle service for anybody who needs a car. If they are not able to enter this building it means that they have to wait outside in their cars. Under certain climatic conditions which we have in Canberra that could be rather unpleasant. I do not know whether the rumours have any foundation, and certainly when I was last speaking to the Commonwealth car drivers they did not know either. They were not sure whether they would be able to enter this building. This matter of whether they are able to enter the building when they are waiting to provide transport for someone should be cleared up. If a decision has been made that they cannot enter the building, perhaps the matter could be looked into again. 
I mention an aspect which has been mentioned previously in the debate. I shall mention certain other aspects raised by previous speakers as I go along and develop the theme of my own argument. But first I deal with the risk of fire which was mentioned. I must admit that when I first thought about the points I would raise in this debate I did not think of the possibility of fire in the building. When this possibility was mentioned this afternoon I realised that this was something we should look at in the context of securitysecurity of the building as a whole, I should imagine, security of the people who are in it and security of information stored here. 
I was reminded of something I learned last year when I was in Ottawa. Apparently the Parliament House there has had two fires. The latest fire, which occurred not too long ago, damaged the building to such an extent that vast restoration of the building was required. In addition, it is important to note that lives were lost in one of those fires and that one of the persons who lost his life was in fact a member of Parliament. As a result I believe we should not blinker ourselves to the possibility that there is a fire risk in our Parliament House. Adequate fire precautions should be taken, and I am sure that they are being looked into. If we look at what has happened in other places we would know that the risk exists. 

 Mr President, I must admit that I am a little at variance with some of my colleagues who seem to think that there should be almost blanket opposition to the measures that were outlined in your statement. I do not think that should be the case. What we are looking at principally in your statement,  Mr President,  are measures that will protect the personnel of this building. I think it is understandable that some people are not interested in having some form of security arrangement. They are not particularly interested only in their own personal safety. That may be satisfactory to them, but members of Parliament should not think only of their own safety in this building; we also have to think of the safety of our colleagues. More importantly, I believe we should think of the safety of our staff as well. 
I am not sure what members of Parliament will think when I say that we should think more of our staff than of ourselves. If anything happens to us it will happen because we have set out to offer ourselves for public service. We are in the public limelight, and we run certain risks when we enter the Parliament. As a previous  speaker  said, all of us probably at some time have had some threat made against us. When this matter was first raised  Senator Georges  pointed out that many of us have threats made against us but never say anything about them. Some people do. I think the majority of us never reveal these threats, except perhaps to report them to the relevant authorities. So I think that we, as members of Parliament, have to accept that there will be some risk, not necessarily inside this Parliament but perhaps outside this Parliament. 
I believe the staff who work for us are in a different position. They did not deliberately set out to enter public life. They probably have gone close to it in that they have set out to obtain a position with someone who is in public life and who is in the public limelight at certain times. Those staff are doing a job for us as members of Parliament. For back benchers there is a risk of something happening to staff in Parliament House because back benchers do not have staff. However, I believe if something happened in my parliamentary office in Brisbane the person who would be in danger, firstly, would not be myself but my staff member. These are the sorts of things I believe we should look at and think about when we are debating your statement,  Mr President. 
I agree that there was probably some cause for us to be consulted firstly. I am not quite sure how you,  Mr President,  and  Mr Speaker  could have arranged to consult all members of Parliament. Perhaps this could have been done through some committee system. However, I think it would be very difficult to get all interested members of Parliament together at one time for the purpose of discussion and consultation. If that had happened I believe there would have been less confusion and less opposition to some of your proposals. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

 General Business taking precedence of Government Business at 8 p.m. 


 - Mr President, I thought that my speech was being anticipated a few minutes ago. I spoke on this matter for a few minutes on 16 March before the suspension of the sitting for dinner. After the suspension of the sitting the House discussed other business, so since that date I have been waiting to continue my remarks on this matter. On that date I outlined in my usual gentlemanly manner some of my thoughts about this statement. I do not wish to say, but I think I am obliged to say, that my manner will not be so gentlemanly this afternoon because I am rather stirred up by some of the aspects of the security measures instituted around this Parliament since I spoke on 16 March. I shall mention shortly the aspects about which I am unhappy. 
When the debate was interrupted on 16 March I was outlining some of my own thoughts on the security measures outlined in your statement,  Mr President.  I was doing so in the hope that my thoughts would be looked at. This debate was to be a vehicle whereby we in this Parliament could have some say as to what was to happen in the immediate precincts of Parliament House. I will describe some of my personal feelings. They need not necessarily be the same as those of some of my Opposition colleagues, but I do not think that that is particularly important. It is important that we all have the opportunity to outline what we think of the statement so that perhaps we can come to a consensus within this chamber on what we will do about security in Parliament House. I really have no objection to people wearing security identification passes in the Parliament. I hope that those members of my staff who, because of the statement and the decision that has been made, are obliged to wear an identification pass are mature enough to accept that they should wear it. 
Before I came to this place I was in many places where it was necessary to have some security identification, and I suppose because of that I became aware of the need for it and aware of the fact that it helped not only the person who was wearing the identification but also his colleagues. In particular I have had a great deal of experience in two of the Services. In those two Services I had to wear security identification at times, and I had no objection to doing it. As some honourable senators would know, I have also had experience in one of the police forces in the country. At times it was necessary for members of the police force to have some sort of security identification. Because of my experience I suppose I am more ready than some of my colleagues to accept the necessity for identification. But the aspect of the matter that I cannot entertain is the fact that we were told that certain measures were to be taken before we would be allowed to debate them. 
The whole of Parliament House is insecure in certain aspects. I shall mention them now. I can quite well recall that in the course of some of my security training I was told that we should look at the security of three major aspects, within which there were certain subdivisions. The three major aspects were information, materials and personnel. I suggest that in this Parliament House we could secure these three major areas to some extent, but we will never be able to secure them against a person who is determined to break down any security measures that we may have and come into this building for his own particular purposes. 
Let us look at those three areas. The security of information in this building is probably negligible.  Senator Martin  said that she could come into this building at any time and almost invariably find her office open. The position is the same with my office. I can come into this building at almost any time, even on weekends, and find it open. So how secure is the information that we are holding in our offices? How secure is the material that we are holding in our offices? I think it is very insecure. I do not think that this aspect will be overcome by the security measures brought into force recently. 
The question of security of personnel raises a different matter. Those who would rather not see us have some form of security in the Parliament must bear in mind that it is not only their security which is involved; the security of other people is involved also. I think that the last time I spoke on this subject I mentioned that if there is any physical attack on people within this Parliament it is more likely that the victims of that attack will be the staff members rather than the members of this chamber or of the other chamber. It is our staff members that we should consider. When I was speaking last time I was about to say that a number of parts of the statement brought down by the  President  were deficient. For example, we were not told who was in charge of security. Shortly after I spoke, however, a statement was made about the appointment of a person to be in charge of security within Parliament House. This person is known to some members of this chamber; he certainly is not known to me. But even though the appointment has now beer made there is still a deficiency in that we have not been told exactly what his duties are. We should be told and we should be able to debate what his duties are. We have not been told the duties of the attendants in this place. Probably even some of the attendants do not know their duties. This information should be made available to us and we should be able to debate the duties of the attendants. We do not know- I certainly do not know- who are responsible to the person who is looking after security in this place. If arrangements have been made the information should be made available to members of Parliament. 
The question of identification was mentioned only a short time ago. It was mentioned in the President's statement that members of Parliament would be able to enter Parliament House without having any identification. There are certain weaknesses in this situation. If everybody else is wearing some form of identification- as I mentioned earlier I personally would have no objection to wearing some form of identification; some members of this Parliament would have objections. If we do not wear some form of identification it is inevitable that we are going to have some awkward moments. I already have been asked once for my identification. I was asked by one of the attendants of the House of Representatives. One could well expect that most of" the attendants on the Senate side would know the senators, although a newly appointed attendant would not know the members of the Senate for some time. During that time he would be placed in the awkward position of wondering whether to challenge a person because he is not carrying identification or, hopefully, to accept that he is a member of Parliament. 
-Certainly, when we have some 10 new senators or thereabouts after 1 July a number of the existing attendants will not know them for some time. But, perhaps more importantly, we in the Senate do not frequent only this side of Parliament House. At times we are obliged to go to the House of Representatives side. The attendants on that side are likely to see us less often than attendants on this side and they will not always be aware of who are the members of the Senate. The converse applies to members of the House of Representatives who come over to this side. Sometimes I still see members of the House of Representatives in the dining room whom I cannot recall having seen before. 

 -Certainly, Mr Minister, because they are from your side. This is perhaps why I am lucky but it is also the reason why I do not know them too well. Unless one works in a joint committee with members of the opposing parties one does not usually get to know members of the House of Representatives too well. If I find the situation difficult at times I am sure the attendants do too. I think that this matter has to be looked at. If decision has been made that everybody except members of Parliament is to wear identification if he or she comes into this place, something has to be done to make the members of Parliament easily recognisable to the attendants or to the people who have the responsibility to ensure that nobody without the correct pass or identification is in this building. I am not sure how this will be done. It could be done by members of Parliament wearing identification similar to that worn by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  this afternoon. It could be done by us wearing our gold badges of office. I am canvassing ways that it could be done. 
The previous speaker in this debate spoke of what was happening in another Parliament. She said that members wore some identification in their lapels to show that they were members of parliament. I am not sure of what can be done that will be acceptable to all members of the House of Representatives and all members of the 
Senate to make sure that we are easily recognisable to the attendants. It does not really worry me if I am challenged by an attendant and asked why I am not wearing my identification. But it does worry me that an attendant probably would be embarrassed when he found out that he had asked a member of Parliament why he was not wearing his identification. I am assuming that the attendants are the people who are responsible at the moment for the security of the House, and I am not sure that that is correct, as I outlined before, because we have not really been told. Presumably they are the people who are responsible and they should not be placed in the position of having to guess about whether we should be walking around without identification. 
Earlier I mentioned that I would not be as gentlemanly as I was when I spoke last time. I now raise a point that has not angered me but one which has caused me to be a little annoyed. I think the whole of this debate probably has been relegated to the level of a farce. Although we are debating what was outlined in the paper presented by the  President,  when we came into Parliament House this week- some of us yesterday, some of us today- we found that all the security measures which were outlined in the paper have now been implemented. It would have been a much better idea for members of the Senate and of the House of Representatives to debate the question and the papers presented and then, on the basis of that debate, institute some security procedures. 
Before I conclude I shall outline some incidents which have happened in the Western world which suggest that there is a need for security in this place. By my comments earlier I acknowledge that, in my own mind at least, there was need for security in this place. What I object to as a member of this Parliament- perhaps as a back-bench member but certainly as a memberis to have a paper put down indicating that certain security measures will be introduced, to be given an opportunity to debate the paper and then to find that, irrespective of what is happening in the debate, certain of the procedures referred to have already been undertaken. I would hope- even though probably the debate is somewhat farcical in that most of the procedures already have been implemented- that honourable senators from both sides will have an opportunity to say what they think about the security of Parliament, and that their views could still be taken into consideration. I know that there will be honourable senators, perhaps from both sides, who will have differing opinions about what should be done with regard to security in this place, but that is the very idea of the debateto enable us to air what we think should happen here, and have the matters to which we have referred taken into consideration. 
I will outline three events which have occurred within a Parliament in the Western world which give some credence to the belief that we should examine the security of Parliament House. Probably the most tragic occurrence in recent years, and one that all honourable senators would remember, was the assassination in the South African Parliament itself of Prime Minister Verwoerd. Honourable senators will recall that it was an attendant- subsequently found to be mentally deranged- who came up to the Prime Minister in the chamber and stabbed him. Ten minutes later the Prime Minister, even though already on the way to the hospital had died. It may not be possible, under those circumstances, to prevent such an occurrence, no matter what security we have in this place. The assailant was a person trusted within the chamber. Even though it might not be possible to prevent that type of act from occurring, the fact that we have an effective security system in Parliament House would lessen the possibility of its happening and if it did lessen the possibility, that would be all the better. 
Perhaps not so well known was an incident in 1970 in the House of Commons, when some CS gas was thrown into the Commons while it was actually in session. I am informed that CS gas is a type of tear gas which contains fine crystalline particles of the irritant 2chlorobenzalmalononitrile. Whether that is so or not, CS gas, or a type of tear gas, was actually thrown into the Commons. Three members of the House were taken to hospital as a result and, of course, the proceedings had to be interrupted. I will quote a passage in the  Times  which described the incident as follows: 
Interruption . . . 
A man in the public gallery threw two CS gas canisters on to the floor of the Chamber soon after 4.30 p.m. while  Mr Barber,  Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, was making a statement about Common Market negotiations. 
It went on to say that among the cries that were raised by the man who threw the gas were 'How do you like it?' and 'Now you know what it is like in Belfast'. If we read other extracts from the  Times  we find that the actual language used was a little stronger than that and probably would not be allowed in this place, so I use that extract only. 
That reminded me of something that happened in this place, I believe last year. While the 
Senate was in session, suddenly a stream of pamphlets came from the gallery above us, a flag appeared and we heard chants and shouts. I did not at first know what was happening, but when I realised what had taken place I thought how easy it would be for someone to throw anything into the chamber. In fact, that has happened in the Commons. 
In another incident, at the Palace of Westminster in 1974, a bomb exploded, injuring five members of the staff of the House of Commons, and a fireman. One staff member of the House suffered a fractured leg. I was rather interested to read the  Hansard  report of the debate on that incident.  Mr Short,  a member of the House, said: 
We are agreed that the incident raises the whole question of security in the House and in the precincts. 
I would hope that that does not happen here; that because of some incident that has occurred here we then decide that we have to look at our security. I think that the action that is being taken is probably the correct way to look at our security- in the hope of preventing that type of incident occurring here. I do believe that there are reasons why we should examine the security of this Parliament. It is probably unfortunate that the present examination was prompted by an act which occurred a short time ago in the Australian community. I refer to the bomb outrage in Sydney, but if that has prompted us to look at our security, I suppose it is something from which we can learn. I would have hoped that we would have looked at it before. 
If I sound uncharitable I hope,  Mr President,  you will excuse me, but I think it would have been much better for members of this chamber and of the other place to have discussed all of these measures before certain security procedures were taken. When that does not happen it really takes out of the hands of anyone in this chamber the opportunity to make a worthwhile contribution about what he thinks should happen. I do hope that in the course of the remainder of the debate honourable senators will outline areas where they believe there are deficiencies. I firmly support the proposal from this side that the matter should be referred to the Privileges Committee. I support that proposal even more now than when I last spoke because of certain incidents which subsequently occurred. 
If we are going to implement a system of security in this place- as we appear to have donethat system must be sound. An ad hoc system that was followed only partially would probably be more dangerous than having no security at all. I would hope that in the days to come- and if I may project it even further, in the years to come and the parliaments to come- we shall have an unobtrusive system of security, one which will be acceptable to members of the Parliament and also to those who work here. My thoughts on the matter are not necessarily for the members of Parliament, who probably are the least likely to be the subject of any act of terror here, but for the members of the staff, who are more likely to have a confrontation with someone who wants to go through our security barrier and carry out an act which we would not regard as acceptable. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
Did the Prime Minister write to Ministers on or about 4 April 1977, stressing that plaques acknowledging any Federal assistance should be displayed at new projects; if so, why was no acknowledgement of Federal assistance included in the plaque displayed at the Gladstone Library and Art Gallery, which the Premier of Queensland opened on 24 August 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
What is the aim of the National Travel Survey 1977-78 being conducted by the Bureau of Transport Economics. 
When was the survey commenced, and what is the expected date of its completion. 
Has the Australian Bureau of Statistics been involved in the survey; if so, in what capacity. 
What is the estimated cost of the survey. 
5 ) How many personnel are involved in the survey. 
At whose instigation was the survey commenced. 
Have similar surveys been conducted in the past; if so, what are the details. 
What is the sample size involved, and how was the sample determined. 
Has more than one questionnaire been sent to each address involved in the survey; if so, what are the details. 
Is participation in the survey compulsory for those contacted by the Bureau; if so, what are the details. 
What percentage of the sample has responded to the questionnaire for (a) Australia; and (b) each State. 
To whom will the results of the survey be made available. 
-I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to a Press release by  Mr Donald  Cameron, M.P., on 30 March 1978 in which he referred to a meeting which took place with the Prime Minister and five other people in mid-January. This meeting was in relation to  Mr Cameron  's allegations about the electoral redistribution in Queensland. My question relates to the following paragraph in the release: 
As well as that, a certain person at that meeting stated emphatically that in relation to the redistribution, he had had no contact with the Commissioners, either direct or indirect or in any way whatsoever at any time. We were told it was a repeat of an assurance that had already been given to  Mr Fraser.  What can you do in the face of that? 
Was the Minister present when this certain person made his emphatic statement? If so, was this certain person the Minister for Finance,  Mr Eric  Robinson? 
-I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Did Justice Elizabeth Evatt hold talks in Brisbane with the six judges of the Family Court bench of Queensland last Friday? If so, what was the nature of the discussions and what was the outcome? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
Have there been instructions issued since 1 July 1977 to the effect that Army Reserve units are to limit the number of training days for the 1 977-78 financial year; if so, what is the text of the instruction or instructions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an alleged practice of regular or reserve armed forces members driving tracked vehicles backward so that the required distance or rime of use does not register or goes backward resulting in a requirement for servicing the vehicles at less frequent intervals; if so, has the Minister had the alleged practice investigated and what were the results of his investigation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 978: 
1 ) How many copies of Stamp Preview No. 1, 1978 were mailed to addresses: ( a ) within Australia; and ( b ) overseas. 
Were any paid advertisements included with copies of this issue of Stamp Preview mailed (a) within Australia or ( b ) overseas; if so, what are the details of this advertisement, or these advertisements, including the number distributed, the cost to Australia Post of printing and distribution and the amount received by Australia Post for distributing the advertisement or advertisements. 
-I present the following petition from 1 1 8 citizens of* Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Federal Government recognise land rights in the States, such as Queensland, in a similar manner to the recognition of land rights in the Northern Territory i.e. enact an Aboriginal Land Rights Act for Queensland; 
That the Federal Government support the abolition of the Aborigines Act (Queensland) 1971 and the Torres Strait Islanders Act (Queensland) 1971 and take such action as they may deem necessary to ensure that the provisions of the Queensland Discriminatory Laws Act 1975 and the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 be enforced in so far as they relate to Aborigines and Islanders; 
That the Federal Government assume responsibility for Aboriginal Affairs in Queensland under the powers given them by the Referendum of 1967. The State Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement, Queensland should be abolished and Aboriginal and Island reserves in Queensland should have the choice to be self-governed with local government status. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Aboriginal Land Rights in Queensland 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to a report that the Deputy Premier of Queensland has urged the Commonwealth Government to close the Gulf of Carpentaria. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether any formal request on this matter has been made by the Queensland Government to the Federal Government? Also, I ask whether the Government has given consideration to the closure of the Gulf and, if it has, what has been the result of its investigations. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 978: 
Prior to 1978, were applicants for benefits under the Federal Government Secondary Allowances Scheme able to apply up to the end of the year and still receive benefits for the whole of that year. 
) Have there been any changes to the date of application and subsequent payments for 1978: if so, what are those changes and by what authority were the changes made. 
Tonight I bring to the attention of the Senate a clear case of discrimination against some Queensland residents. Those being discriminated against are past or serving members of the Defence Forces. As a Queensland senator, I am obliged to outline the circumstances surrounding this discrimination and urge that steps be taken to rectify what is a definite injustice. The matter to which I refer is associated with the Defence Service Homes scheme. This scheme which was commenced in 1919 assists former and serving members of the Australian Forces and certain other persons who meet the eligibility requirements to acquire a home. The magnitude of the scheme may be gauged by referring to the number of homes purchased under the scheme. From 1919 until December 1975, a total of 359,068 homes was purchased following assistance from the scheme. So the scheme is far from insignificant. The Defence Service Homes scheme now accounts for about 9 per cent of net Commonwealth expenditure on housing programs. Associated with the Defence Service Homes scheme is a special insurance scheme. It is called the Defence Service Homes Insurance scheme. This scheme is a co-operative one and is financed completely by Defence Service Homes purchasers and borrowers. That is, there is no Commonwealth expenditure to assist this insurance scheme. The scheme covers homes against a wide variety of risks. The latest report on the Defence Service Homes scheme outlines the insurance premiums as follows: The premium for the first $2,000 of cover is $18.90 plus $1.30 for each subsequent $2,000 of cover or part thereof. The report does not mention anything about differential rates. As far as I can see from that report the rates throughout Australia are the same. 
Before proceeding, I acknowledge that the scheme provides insurance at competitive and usually better rates than those obtainable from other insurers. I refer however to the discrimination against certain Queenslanders which I mentioned earlier. I am informed that a notice is being forwarded to all people in Queensland with insurance under this scheme. The notice concludes: 
In view of the co-operative nature of the Scheme, it is desirable that insured persons contribute equitably. Accordingly, when it is apparent that homes in one region are regularly costing more to insure, it is appropriate for that to bear a larger proportion of its excess cost. The cost of insuring homes in Queensland has been regularly exceeding the costs of insurance in the rest of Australia over the last six years. For this reason, effective from 1 September 1977, a loading has been applied to premiums payable for insurance in Queensland amounting to about 20 per cent of the normal premium payable for the average home insured. 
My inquiries lead me to believe that Queensland is the only State in which a loading has been applied to insurance premiums under this scheme. 
Before this loading was applied, premium rates were the same throughout Australia. Now they are the same everywhere except Queensland. I believe that those who are administering the scheme should remember that defence personnel who qualify for homes under this scheme and subsequently for insurance for the homes that they obtain did not fight just for Queensland. They fought for Australia as a whole. That being the case I think that the people who are administering the scheme should consider that these premiums should be the same throughout Australia. Despite recent comments to the contrary in this House and the other place and outside this Parliament, it is well to remember that Queensland is still part of Australia. 
As I outlined earlier, this scheme is a cooperative scheme. If it is a co-operative scheme why cannot we have co-operation throughout Australia. Has there been a loading applied for houses in the Darwin area because of the cyclone devastation there? No, there has not. There is no loading anywhere else. Has there been a loading for places, such as the Blue Mountains, where it has been shown that there have been risks to houses? No, there is no loading there. But for some reason there is a loading in Queensland. Although I have not been able to obtain the information, I suspect that some of this loading probably has been applied because of the flood position in Queensland in recent years, especially the disastrous flood in Brisbane in 1 974. If that is the case, that argument- if the Senate will excuse the fact that there is no pun intended- will not wash because the houses in Brisbane affected by this flood were built on a flood plain area although personnel of the Defence Service Homes scheme knew that this was a flood plain area. If that is the case, what Queenslanders are paying for now is a maladministration of the scheme which allowed houses to be built or purchased in areas which were liable to flood. If houses were built on the flood plain area in Brisbane, it was inevitable that at some time in the future they would be flooded just as it is inevitable now that they will be flooded some time again in the future, although it may be in 20, 50 or 100 years time. 
Let me make it plain that I believe that there ought to be equal premiums under this scheme throughout Australia. I ask the Government to discontinue what is a rip off and victimisation of Queensland residents who are insured under this scheme. If the Government will not consider the discontinuation of these extra premiums imposed upon Queensland people, I want to have made available to the Senate details of premiums and claims for all States over the last 10 years on a State by State basis. I would like to see also the sums received by the scheme due to reinsurance. In the report of the Defence Service Homes scheme which I mentioned earlier there is a reference to reinsurance. The report states: 
To insulate the Insurance Trust Account from the effect of major catastrophes, reinsurance cover has been taken out to provide excess of loss cover of 95 per cent of $8,500,000 in respect of any loss or series of losses arising out of one event where the loss or losses exceed $ 1 ,500,000. 
If the extra premium payable in Queensland is due to the floods of 1 974 1 do not know whether those reinsurance proposals would have covered the scheme. If the Government will not reconsider the removal of this extra premium, I would like to have made available details of all sums received under that reinsurance scheme. I would not be surprised, if we look back over the 10-year period, if at some stage Queensland people were entitled to some discounted premiums. They just do not know. But at this stage they are being told that because of increased costs they, and they alone, will have to pay extra premiums for their insurance. It seems strange to me that this should be decided on a State by State basis. For instance, does a person who has insurance for his home in Roma have to pay additional premiums because of something that may have happened in Brisbane or Innisfail or some other area for which claims are high? Should a person in, say, Toowoomba or Kingaroy who is in an area- I am supposing that this is the case- which does not have the same high number of claims as some other areas of Queensland also have to help out with this extra premium. This seems to me to be the position that is now applying in Queensland, as opposed to the position in the other States. There does not seem to me to be any reason why a scheme which is for the whole of Australia could not accommodate different rates of claim for one State or region. I notify the Government that there is no way that those people under this scheme in Queensland will accept this type of discrimination. I suggest strongly that the new loadings in Queensland be dropped altogether. I look forward to definite advice on this matter from the Government in the near future. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
Have representations been made in relation to a weapons strong room for B Company 9 RQR at Sandgate, Brisbane; if so what has been the result of any representations made. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What was the percentage devaluation or revaluation of the following currencies against the Australian dollar from (a) 30 June 1977 to 28 February 1978; (b) 30 September 1977 to 28 February 1978; and (c) 30 November 1977 to 28 February 1 978- (i) £ sterling; (ii) $ New Zealand; (iii) $US; (iv) $ Canadian; (v) Francs; (vi) $ Hong Kong; (vii) Yen; (viii) $ Singapore; (ix) Deutschmark; (x) Dutch Guilders; (xi) Italian Lire; (xii) Greek Drachmas; and (xiii) Swiss Francs. 
What was the official percentage devaluation or revaluation of the Australian dollar for the three periods mentioned in ( 1 ). 

 -Mr President, I think my question properly is directed to you. I refer to the informaton about the Senate which is displayed on the lower floor on the Senate side of Parliament House. This informaton is inspected by thousands of people each year. I ask you,  Mr President:  Are you aware that under the heading Procedures to Resolve Deadlocks' it is stated that 'to date there have been two double dissolutions '? There is no mention of either the double dissolution of 1974 or that of 1975. Will you have steps taken to bring this information up to date to include the double dissolutions of 1974 and 1975 so that it will show that there have in fact been four double dissolutions? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 21 February 1978: 
Did the Prime Minister state at a dinner of American businessmen in the United States last year that Dillingham Mining Company was running out of orders at the time sand-mining on Fraser Island was suspended, and that the Company might have concluded its Fraser Island operations even if the decision to ban mining on Fraser Island had not been taken, as reported in the Brisbane  Sunday Mail  on 26 June 1977; if so, what evidence can the Prime Minister provide to support his claims. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 2 March 1978: 
1 ) Who were the delegates and staff from the Commonwealth who attended the meeting of the Australian Education Council in New Zealand this year. 
Were the expenses of any persons other than those in ( 1 ) met by the Commonwealth in relation to this meeting; if so, who were those persons. 
What was the total cost, including travel and accommodation costs, to the Commonwealth in relation to this meeting. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
Did  Mr Berkeley  give any reasons for his resignation from the Curriculum Development Centre (Senate  Hansard,  7 March 1978, page 362); if so, what reasons did  Mr Berkeley  give. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
1 ) What qualifications are set for external interviewers employed by the Bureau of Statistics. 
What are the duties of external interviewers. 
What is the current rate of remuneration for these interviewers and how was this rate set. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What action, if any, does the Minister propose to take following the statement released by the Ancient Order of Foresters Friendly Society in Queensland that it is in 'serious financial difficulties '. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Does the Commonwealth Government intend to allocate funds to Queensland women's refuges before the end of the 1977-78 financial year, as was indicated by the Queensland Minister for Welfare Services,  Mr John  Herbert  (The Telegraph,  27 March 1978); if so: (a) what is the total amount of funding involved; (b) which women's refuges are to receive funding; and (c) how much will each receive. 
Have previous Commonwealth funds provided to the Queensland Government for women's refuges not been passed on by the Queensland Government; if so (a) what are the details of the funds involved; (b) has the funding concerned been returned to the Commonwealth; if not, to what use has it been put; and (c) does the Government have any guarantee that the funds listed in ( 1 ) will be passed on by the Queensland Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) What ex gratia payments have been made to Queensland Titanium Mines Pty Ltd and to the DM Minerals partnership. 
Have any discussions concerning ex gratia payments been held with the principals of these companies during 1978. 
Are the announced ex gratia payments conditional on the companies' satisfactory revegetating the area, or foregoing their mining claims on Fraser Island, or both. 
What ex gratia payments have been made to each of the first-line subcontractors previously engaged in Fraser Island sandmining. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) How much money has been provided by the Australian Government: (a) in direct grants; and (b) in grants to the Queensland Government; as regional compensation for the cessation of sandmining on Fraser Island. 
How much money in each of these categories has been spent. 
How much of the money has been spent in the acquisition from Dillingham-Murphyores of: (a) a wharf at Buff Creek; (b) the Toby's Break Airstrip; (c) the National Fitness Camp; and (d) any machinery and motor vehicles. 
Which Queensland Government Departments and/or authorities have spent the money, and how much is involved in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Were inspections carried out, by officers of the former Department of National Resources, of the rehabilitation of sandmined areas of Fraser Island since 3 1 December 1976, when sandmining ceased; if so, when. 
Are ex gratia payments conditional on the satisfactory revegetation of sandmined areas on Fraser Island. 
Were the officers who inspected the rehabilitation work of Queensland Titanium Mines Pty Ltd on Fraser Island satisfied with the rehabilitation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
Do people applying for a passport immediately have their names, a copy of their passport photograph, a copy of the application for passport form, and a list of countries the person intends to visit, sent to the Police Special Branch in each State, as stated in 'The Australian', 30 March 1978; if so: 
for how long has this system operated; (b) under what legislation is it possible for information provided to the Immigration and Ethnic Affairs Department to be sent to State Special Branches; (c) to what use is the information put by Special Branches; (d) how long is the information retained by Special Branches until it is destroyed; (e) do Special Branches provide information on persons seeking passports to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs; if so, what are the details; and (f) what efforts are made to safeguard the privacy of persons applying for passports. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, by remarking that many Queensland residents are concerned about the proposed Iwasaki project in Queensland. One of the areas of concern is how the sale of Australian land to foreigners is likely to affect Australia's defence. I therefore ask: Has the Government given any consideration to the possible defence implications of the Iwasaki project? If so, what conclusions have been reached? If not, will the Minister raise the matter for Government consideration? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
Do any organisations other than government departments, employees of government departments or Members of Parliament occupy parking space in the car park of the Commonwealth Government Centre, Brisbane; if so, what organisations do so and what rental do they pay for such parking facilities. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
1 ) Was a new stamp issue originally planned for 22 March 1978; if so: (a) what was this issue; and (b) was the issue postponed. 
If the issue was postponed: (a) why did this occur; (b) is the Minister aware of the inconvenience which is caused to 
Philatelists when stamp issues are postponed; and (c) what action is being taken to ensure that such a postponement does not occur again. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Queensland Government made representations to the Federal Government concerning the Taxation Department's treatment of free and subsidised housing, as was envisaged by the Queensland Treasurer,  Mr Knox (BrisbaneCourier  Mail,  8 March 1978); if so: (a) what are the details; and (b) what response has been made to the representations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
What progress has been made concerning negotiations with the Queensland Government similar to those resulting in an agreement with the South Australian Government, outlined in the Minister's Press Release entitled 'Environmental Assessments- Commonwealth/State arrangements'. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that in his election policy speech in 1977  Mr Fraser  made a commitment that the Government would redevelop Brisbane Airport? If so, when can Brisbane residents expect to see some action in the redevelopment of the airport? I also ask whether there is any truth in the report in the Brisbane  Telegraph  of 2 May 1978 that Federal Government top financial advisers are trying to stop or seriously delay promised redevelopment of Brisbane Airport'. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. Is it currently required that a worker who terminates his employment of his own accord must wait for six weeks before he is eligible to receive unemployment benefit? If so, does he have to be registered as unemployed for that six-week period or is it acceptable for him to register at the end of the period provided he can show that he has been seeking work during that period? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
Did Trans-Australia Airlines or any other organisation require permission from the Department of Transport to charge a service fee of $2 for travel to and from Whitsunday as outlined in the TAA Timetable effective 5 March 1978: if so (a) when and why was such approval granted; and (b) is approval for such fees gazetted; if so, where and when was the service fee for Whitsunday gazetted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 February 1978: 
1 ) Has the approval been given for a passenger service fee or head tax for Proserpine Airport in Queensland: if so, when was approval given and what is the fee or tax. 
) When did Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia first show a head tax or passenger service fee for Proserpine in their fare schedules. 
If the head tax or passenger service fee was shown in either or both of the schedules mentioned in (2) before approval was given, was the tax or fee collected by: (a) TransAustralian Airlines: or (b) Ansett Airlines of Australia before approval was given; if so, will the tax or fee now be refunded. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: Are there any circumstances under which recipients of social security benefits or applicants for social security benefits who live in country areas are able to telephone offices of the Department of Social Security and reverse charges? If there are any such circumstances, what are they? 
This evening we are debating the International Sugar Agreement Bill 1978. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill but has moved an amendment to it. I shall mention that amendment at a later stage. Before referring specifically to the Bill, I would like to outline some aspects of the sugar industry in Australia. When 1 speak about the sugar industry in Australia, my comments will relate principally to Queensland, not because I represent that State but because most of the sugar production comes from Queensland. About 95 per cent of Australia's sugar production is Queensland-based, the remainder coming from the northern part of New South Wales. Earlier this evening  Senator Wood  outlined some aspects of the importance of the sugar industry to Queensland. It is by no means an over-statement to say that if the sugar industry were taken away from Queensland, the east coast of Queensland would wither and die. If that happened and there were a sudden population decrease, there would be fairly disastrous effects on Australian trade, as I will show later. There would also be serious implications for Australia's defence. It would leave a large length of the coastline of Australia without sufficient population for a reasonable defence barrier. 
Therefore it is important that we look not only at the International Sugar Agreement itself but also at the sugar industry in Queensland and what it means to Australia. Australia is the fourth largest producer of cane sugar in the world. In Australia sugar is second only to wheat crops in value of production. The position in Queensland is different. In Queensland sugar production is of far greater value than that of any other crop grown in the State. In fact the value of sugar cane production in Queensland accounts for about 50 per cent of the value of crops grown. Various attempts were made from about the early 1 800s to grow sugar commercially in Australia, but it was not until about 1 860 that the sugar cane industry was firmly established. In 1867 there were six sugar mills in Queensland. There are now 32 mills in Australia. This gives an idea of the dramatic increase in the last century. All but three of these 32 sugar mills are in Queensland. As  Senator Thomas  mentioned, many of them are cooperative mills. From the 1 800s until now the industry has progressed a long way. It was not until 1924 that Australia became a sugar exporter, but since then it has been a major exporter to the rest of the world. 
The sugar industry is now highly efficient. There is much mechanisation, and the labour content is much lower than it was. I can remember that even 20 years ago in Queensland we said that we would never mechanise the sugar industry in our State; there would always be a need for cane cutters. The cane cutter has virtually gone in Queensland. Some of us who remember Queensland history remember rather shamefully, I suppose, that Kanaka labour was used in Queensland, and it was still being used in this century. It was virtually slave labour. It was only because of the federation of the Australian States that Kanaka labour was phased out. We have a very highly efficient industry today. 
I mentioned earlier how the decline of the industry in Australia, especially in Queensland, would mean grave consequences for Australia 's trade. I will illustrate that by some figures which give the value of this trade to Australia. In 1976-77 the value of sugar exports from Australia was $638m. To say that figure in isolation probably does not mean much, but if we were to compare it with the figures for other crops and other exports, it means a lot. This $638m of sugar exports in 1976-77 was 12.4 per cent or one-eighth of the value of Australia's rural exports and 5.5 per cent of the total value of exports. Therefore one can quite easily understand that it is a significant industry for Australia and especially for Queensland. 
The number of people employed in the sugar industry also gives an indication of its significance. The number of persons employed in sugar cane growing and harvesting in Australia, according to statistics revealed by the Australian census, as at 30 June 1971 was 12,403. Of course in addition there is the manufacturing side of the industry. In the manufacture of raw and refined sugar and products such as molasses, treacle and castor sugar 9,871 people were employed. So in 1971 there were 22,274 people directly employed in the sugar industry. This is a significant part of the work force. These figures do not include those people who are employed in transporting sugar on the railway trucks of CSR Ltd; they do not include persons who would occasionally handle sugar and its products, such as railway employees and wharf labourers. In addition to those 22,274 people other people are employed in this industry. This gives an indication of the importance of the industry to Australia, especially to that part of Australia where most of the sugar cane is grown, that is, in Queensland. 
When 1 quoted the figures for the number of people employed in the industry, I mentioned some of the wide variety of products that come from sugar cane. There is not only the sugar itself but also there are products such as molasses which can be used as a stock food and a fertiliser, industrial alcohol, and, to the dismay of some people but to the happiness of others, rum. We have products like golden syrup, treacle and various types of sugar. One could examine a number of other aspects of the sugar industry in Queensland. For instance, if one were to look at the technical services which have grown up in Queensland, especially for the sugar industry, one would find these are of a high level of efficiency. But I do not want to mention anything further about the sugar industry in Queensland. I want to mention something about market agreements because this Bill is concerned with market agreements. 
There have been three international marketing agreements which have affected Australia's sugar industry. 1 mention them briefly. The first is akin to the matter we are debating tonight, namely, the International Sugar Agreement Bill. The International Sugar Agreement was first negotiated in 1937. It sought, as does the Bill before us, to lift depressed world market prices by way of a system of export quotas. So the principle then was exactly the same as the principle contained in the Bill which we are debating tonight. Unfortunately, war broke out shortly after this Agreement was first negotiated in 1937. World War II broke out in 1939 and precluded the operation of this Agreement. However, in 1953 a new International Sugar Agreement was negotiated. There were various breaks in this Agreement which were followed by newly negotiated agreements. So the International Sugar Agreement is one of the marketing arrangements which has been used. 
The second marketing arrangement which could be considered is the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement, which was first signed in 1951 following a conference of British Commonwealth sugar exporters. As one would anticipate from the title of this Agreement, it was concerned with trade and production within Commonwealth countries. As honourable senators would realise, the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement was terminated in 1974. The third marketing arrangement which affected Australia's sugar industry and which we might consider was the United States Sugar Act. Under this Act Australia was allotted a percentage share of United State foreign sugar requirements. Like the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement, the United States Sugar Act terminated in 1974. In addition to these three general marketing arrangements, of course, we have some long term contracts. At present we have contracts with nations such as Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, Singapore and South Korea. It is well known too that even though we have these long term contracts with these nations we sometimes run into problems even when the contracts are actually being fulfilled. 
I turn now to the International Sugar Agreement Bill, which is under consideration. When I look at this Bill I think I agree with one of the previous speakers who said that it is encouraging that this Agreement has the United States as one of its signatories. If it did not have that it would be of far less importance than it will be. The objects of this Agreement are basically to achieve stable conditions in international trade in sugar within a price range which is acceptable to both exporters and importers and to provide adequate supplies of sugar to meet the requirements of importing countries at a fair and reasonable price. So what we are considering is a supply and demand situation. 
As has been indicated by most speakers in this debate, it is extremely unfortunate that the European Economic Community is not to participate in this Agreement or has not participated so far. I mention some of the consequences of this. From what I said earlier about the value of the sugar crop to Australia and to a number of people who work in the industry- of course, this relates especially to Queensland-honourable senators would see that it is natural that I would want to see the best done that can be done for the industry. But we must be realistic about some of the provisions of the Agreement. It must be pointed out that this Agreement contains no guarantee of price. There is an aim to establish a price of between 1 lc and 2 lc per lb. Within that 10c price range we have the price for which the industry is looking through this Agreement. But the short term prospects of reaching a price of 1 lc per lb are very poor indeed.  Senator Wood  said earlier that he believed that prices will eventually reach 1 lc per lb. I certainly hope they do; I hope they go higher. But I do not have the same confidence as he has that we will soon reach stability in production levels throughout the world so that we can attain this price of 1 lc per lb.  Senator Wood  spoke of lessening production and increasing demand. Certainly this is the aim of the Agreement, to make sure that production is not so high in comparison with demand that prices remain uneconomically low. But as I said, short term prospects of reaching 1 lc per lb are poor, let alone the prospects of reaching the 14c to 15c per lb stabilisation price which is intended under this Agreement. In fact, the current international price is about 76c US per lb. This is far below the 1 lc per lb which is the minimum price aimed at in this Agreement. 
When I say that there is no guarantee of price in this Agreement I am not trying to cast gloom on the whole agreement. What I am trying to do is to be realistic and to point out that there is just no guarantee of price. We cannot say that this Agreement will provide a minimum price for the grower. 
Earlier I mentioned the fact that the European Economic Community has not become a signatory to this Agreement. At present the European Economic Community is the world's largest producer of sugar. If it is determined to go it alone there is grave doubt whether there will ever be a guarantee of the aimed minimum price of 1 lc per lb. I should like to point out how the fact that the European Economic Community is not a party to the Agreement could affect the price throughout the world. I quote two paragraphs from an article which appeared in the  Guardian  in London in April this year. The article stated: 
The West is overflowing with sugar; world stocks are expected to soar to well over 30 million tonnes and probably reach record levels at the end of this season, the European Common Market is expected to have a surplus on its hands this year of 3.3 million tonnes and world prices are in the doldrums. 
Common Market governments backed by their powerful sugar lobbies, have refused so far to join the International Sugar Agreement- in spite of all their talk about the need to  stabilise commodity prices- because they refuse to accept restrictions on their exports. Britain, traditionally relying on secure supplies of cane from Commonwealth countries, is expanding its own beet industry, encouraged by high guaranteed EEC prices. 
Debate interrupted. 
Yesterday I asked a question in relation to unemployment benefit. I was prompted by a particular case to ask that question. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  will realise that it is very rare for me to bring before the Senate a particular case in relation to social security benefits. Hopefully, I will not do so tonight. However, I wish to obtain some clarification in relation to the question that I asked and to see whether this case can be looked at in relation to the procedures for which I have attempted to obtain a response. I would first like to review the case that prompted the question I asked yesterday. It concerned a married man with five children. He ceased working at an ex-services club in an inner Brisbane area on  25  February. He applied at the office of the Commonwealth Employment Service at Chermside for unemployment benefit on  29  March. It could be said that there is a fair time span between  25  February and  29  March. I am told that the reason the man did not apply for unemployment benefit or did not go to the office of the Commonwealth Employment Service during that time was because he was informed by a friend that it was of no use applying for the unemployment benefit for a period of six weeks because he had terminated his job voluntarily and he would not get any unemployment benefit. It seems that the advice from the friend may have been wanting in some ways but he took the advice and did not apply for benefit during that period. 
During the time that he was unemployedfrom  25  February onwards- he made some efforts to obtain employment. Apparently, he is fairly adept at bar work or bottle department work. He made one firm application to obtain a position in an hotel bottle department and was interviewed by the assistant manager. Later he made a similiar request to obtain a position, this time at an hotel in his local area. Eventually the six weeks went by and he made an application for unemployment benefit. He was told at that stage that he would not be able to receive unemployment benefit because he had not registered to obtain employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service and that therefore he had to have the six week postponement of benefit, calculated from the day that he registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service. By this time I believe that this man was in fairly desperate straits trying to keep his family. He virtually had no money left. The case was brought to the attention of my office and some efforts were made by my staff to see whether the man could receive some benefit. It was suggested that the only benefit he could receive was a special benefit. He subsequently received a special benefit for two weeks only out of the six week period. At this stage, I am still not sure whether he is eligible to receive unemployment benefit or a special benefit only. 
I make no claim at this stage about whether this person is eligible to receive unemployment benefit. But there are certain aspects which must be cleared up te determine whether he is eligible. Yesterday I asked the Minister for Social Security whether a person had to be registered as unemployed for that period of the six week postponement or whether it was acceptable for him to register at the end of the period provided he could show that he had been seeking work during that period.  Senator Guilfoyle,  in part, replied: 
If a person endeavours to obtain work on his own account following his becoming unemployed voluntarily, that time during which he sought to obtain work is taken into account when determining the date on which he will receive his unemployment benefit. 
It seemed to me, when I heard that reply, that a person did not have to register with the Commonwealth Employment Service if he were in the situation that he had voluntarily terminated his employment and that he could become eligible for unemployment benefits after a six week postponement if it had been shown that, in fact, he was seeking work during that period. I was not sure and, as you will remember  Mr President,  I asked a supplementary question to try to obtain the information more clearly. I asked in part: 
I was trying to determine whether, during that six weeks, it is obligatory that that person be registered as unemployed with the Commonwealth Employment Service . . . 

 Senator Guilfoyle replied in part: 
As a result action taken on one's own account to obtain employment can be taken into account when determining when unemployment benefit shall be paid. 
From both replies I assumed, perhaps incorrectly, that initially the person did not have to be registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service under these conditions. One would accept that eventually a person would have to be registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service so that he could make a formal application for unemployment benefit. On the basis of those two replies from the Minister, in good faith I contacted the Department of Social Security in Brisbane and spoke to two officers about the replies of  Senator Guilfoyle  relating to this case, lt is with some regret that I announce that the reception I received from these two officers bordered on being belligerent. I do not mind if public servants are belligerent to me. But I do mind if they are also belligerent to people who come into the Department of Social Security seeking their advice and help. 
If the events took place in this way with me, they provide a reflection of what will happen to clients who come into the office of the Department of Social Security. I mention this matter because I think that it is important to relate it. One sometimes wonders what happened to old world courtesy. I expect that if a member of the Australian Parliament spoke to a public servant, normally some deference would be shown towards that member of Parliament. But even casting that aside, one would expect that some courtesy would be shown to anybody who would come into the office of the Department seeking advice and help. Perhaps the Minister will be able to convey the message that courtesy costs nothing. When I was talking to one of these two officers I was also particularly disappointed about the value judgments which were made of the way in which this man spent the money. Certainly, from what I can understand, he spent his money in a way far different from the way in which I would spend my money. If I spent my money in the same way he did, I would think that it would be a fairly frivolous way. 
But I do not think that I should make the same value judgment about a person who has no money left and who is looking for benefits of some sort. I do not think that other people should make value judgments of that kind. In view of the reception that I received when I telephoned the Department of Social Security about this case yesterday, I wished to raise the matter during the adjournment debate last night. I wanted to determine whether the replies I received from the Minister were accurate and whether, if they were accurate, she would notify people in the Brisbane office that this was current Government policy. I was not able to do so last night because the Minister notified me that she would not be available in the chamber. To my horror, I now find that I have been speaking for about nine minutes and, again, the Minister is not in the chamber. Perhaps I should have waited until tomorrow night. Undoubtedly, there is some explanation for her absence which I will receive shortly. 
Today I asked the Minister for Social Security a different question but at the end of her reply she took up the question that I asked yesterday and said in part: 
I gave him - 
That is me- 
. an answer which may not have been as precise as it should have been. 
I think that what the Minister meant by that, after hearing her further, was that it was not as accurate as it should have been. She said: 
The six weeks period - 
That is the postponement period- 
. normally runs from the date of registration with the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
What I would like to know at this stage is what normally' means. Does it mean always? If it does not mean always, what are the exceptions? The Minister went on to say: 
In order to assist people who have been in contact with the Commonwealth Employment Service but who have not claimed unemployment benefit, the period that they have been in contact with the CES is taken into account as part of the six-week period of postponement. 
I presume that means that if a person goes to the Commonwealth Employment Service and does not register but receives some assistance and has some means of self-help, this is taken into account within the six-week period. But I am still not sure from this reply, about whether a person in the situation that I outlined yesterday has to register with the Commonwealth Employment Service. I will restate my question. If a person becomes voluntarily unemployed, because he prefers a job of his own choosing, does he, because of the regulations- I am not sure whether they are regulations or just rules that are made by the Government- become ineligible for unemployment benefit for a period of six weeks? Is there a six-week postponement period? During that sixweek postponement period, is it obligatory that he go to the Commonwealth Employment Service and register as unemployed? At the end of the six weeks is he then eligible for unemployment benefit? 
As the Minister said yesterday- she did not use these words but words to this effect- I think that any sensible person who finds himself unemployed would go to the Commonwealth Employment Service and seek the help of that agency. I have sometimes engaged labour through the Commonwealth Employment Service and I have found it an admirable place at which to engage labour. I have always been satisfied. That being the case I would always expect that someone would go there and seek the help of the Commonwealth Employment Service. I think it would be the sensible thing to do. 
But this person did not do the sensible thing. He did not do the sensible thing because he thought he was doing the right thing in not going there for a period of six weeks. What I would like to know is this: In this situation does he then have to wait the six weeks plus another six weeks until he becomes eligible for the unemployment benefit? That is the plain question that I am asking. I am hopeful that we might be able to get some answer to that question. I am not sure whether the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster),  who is in the chamber, will be able to reply to my question. If he is not able to do so I hope that the Minister for Social Security will read what I have said tonight and provide me with an answer. If a person does not have to register immediately with the Commonwealth Employment Service in a case like this, I would ask her whether she could advise the Brisbane office that this is so. The Brisbane office knows of the case and will be able to follow it up. 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications been drawn to a statement in the  Courier-Mail  of 9 May by  Dr R.  Goodman, the  President  of the Queensland Council for Children's Films and Television that television stations had provided 'barren' programs for children in the May school holidays? Is the Minister aware of whether  Dr Goodman's  comments apply equally to the Australian Broadcasting Commission as to the commercial stations in Queensland? Will the Minister convey  Dr Goodman's  comments to an appropriate body to determine whether it is possible to have better television programming on the ABC and commercial stations in subsequent school vacations? 
-The Senate this afternoon is debating two Bills cognately- the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill 1 978 and the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill 1978. My comments will concentrate on the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill. My colleagues on this side of the chamber who will follow me in this debate no doubt will speak on that Bill as well but will speak also on the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill. The Atomic Energy Amendment Bill will facilitate joint participation in the mining of uranium by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and Ranger Uranium Mines Pty Ltd. The Atomic Energy Act 1953, which we are amending by this Bill, gave the Minister power to exercise control over nuclear materials but only in connection with defence or with a Territory. This amending legislation, if passed, will extend the power of the Act to cover under the Constitution many other purposes in the Commonwealth. 
In the last 12 months or so many people have spoken, both in this place and in the House of Representatives, on various aspects of uranium mining. There have been many speakers earlier this afternoon on matters connected with this package of Bills, and there will be speakers to follow on these Bills this afternoon and this evening. Thus a lot has been said on this topic in this place. That being the case, most of the matters which I regard as being of importance have already been canvassed, both in the current session and in previous sessions of the Parliament. In view of that, I probably will not take as long to deal with the matters in the Bill with which I want to deal as otherwise I would have taken. However, I do intend to outline, and to outline forcibly, my personal opposition and that of the Australian Labor Party to the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill. I regret that the Bill has been brought before the Parliament. However, it is here. Now that it has come before the Parliament I am happy that I have the opportunity to reflect a large body of public opinion which is opposed to the Bill- public opinion which comes not only from political circles but also from the general community. Therefore I will be opposing this Bill with all the vigour that I can muster, and I will be voting against it. 
I am amazed that there are so many people in the Parliament who are able to sweep away the reality of the risks associated with waste disposal and with the problems of weapons proliferation. I cannot do that. Waste disposal is a problem which was mentioned very forcibly in the Fox report. Nothing which has happened between the presentation of that report and now has solved the problems of waste disposal. The problems of weapons proliferation are of equal importance, and perhaps are even more important. Those people who cast aside these problems of waste disposal and weapons proliferation cast aside their moral responsibility to protect their fellow man. They cast aside also their moral responsibility to protect forthcoming generations from the folly of proceeding now with uranium mining. 
The Australian Labor Party is firm on this matter. While questions of waste disposal and weapons proliferation remain, Australia's uranium deposits should not be developed. I fully support that stance and in doing so I know that at least I am doing something to safeguard the rights of future citizens of Australia. My conscience is clear when I take that stance. I suppose that people will have different ideas on the problems associated with uranium mining. Those people who hold ideas different from mine are probably able to rationalise their ideas in a way similar to the way in which I explain my stance. But I sometimes wonder whether in the future their consciences will be as clear as mine. Mine will be clear, in the knowledge that I opposed this Bill and other Bills associated with it. 
If Australia mines in accordance with the provisions of this Bill, 1 believe that we will be faced inexorably with premature problems of waste disposal and problems associated with nuclear weapons. However, we must be realistic. The 
Government has the numbers in the House of Representatives and in the Senate. Therefore it is almost a fait accompli that the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill will be passed. Yet there is a strong body of public opinion that it should not be passed. If it is passed it will be a vehicle to allow uranium mining to go ahead in the Northern Territory. Because there is a strong body of public opinion the Government can expect that the opposition to this measure will continue. It will continue within this Parliament and also outside the Parliament. Those people who will be opposing the measure outside the Parliament will be doing so because their consciences tell them that that is not the proper way to go about the problems associated with nuclear material. 
-The great body of people who are opposing this measure outside the Parliament will stay within the law. Like me they will certainly still voice their disapproval of this Bill and the associated Bills. There is no point in breaking normal laws to voice one 's opposition and to try to effect changes. But let us be honest. When so many people are opposed to a principle such as this there will be a few who will break the law. But when that happens- it will happen- one should not blame the vast majority of people who are opposing it in a peaceful way because a small minority decided to go about it in a different way. I think the honourable senator would probably agree that that is what will follow. 
My basic and overwhelming objection to the Atomic Energy Act and the amending Bill which is before us is that they will allow uranium mining. I have already mentioned that. Also there has already been mention of the appropriateness of the use of this Act to control uranium mining. My colleague  Senator Walsh  has already mentioned some aspects of the Act. I am not interested in the niceties of legal argument about the use of this Act but I am interested in why the Government should use an Act which contains harsh, repressive measures. Let us examine some aspects of the Act, which is to be the vehicle for uranium mining in Australia. If we had to have some legislation to allow uranium mining to go ahead one would not expect that it would be necessary for it to contain the repressive measures contained in this Act which can in fact he used. 
Sections 44, 45 and 46 of the Atomic Energy a dc;il with the communication of restricted information, the acquisition of restricted information and the removal of restricted information. When one examines those three elements one can imagine that the provisions are reasonable. They would seem to me to be reasonable provisions if that were as far as they went. But if we look at section 47 (a) we see that it contains a disgraceful affront to civil liberties. Section 47 (a), which deals with proof of intent in relation to those three elements that I have just mentioned, states:  it is not necessary to show that he was guilty of a particular act tending to show an intent to prejudice the defence of the Commonwealth and, notwithstanding that no such act is proved against him, he may be convicted if, from the circumstances of the case, his conduct, or his known character as proved, it appears that he acted with intent to prejudice the defence of the Commonwealth; 
So no proof is really necessary. A person can be convicted in relation to offences under sections 44, 45 and 46 if it appears from his conduct or his known character as proved that he acted to prejudice the defence of the Commonwealth. On that basis he can be imprisoned for 20 years. 
I think there are grave dangers in that section. There is no doubt in my mind that, as uranium mining in Australia proceeds, dossiers, for want of a better word, will be kept on people who are opposed to uranium mining. They may be being kept already. From my background of" work before I became a member of Parliament, I am well aware that in one particular State at least dossiers are kept on people because of their attitude to certain problems within the community. If such dossiers are kept, will they be taken as proof of a person's conduct or character? People may think that what I have said is far-fetched. I will not go into the details of a personal problem which I once faced and about which most people in this chamber know. It was in 1975 at the time of the filling of a casual Senate vacancy. Some people may remember that a document which was written by an ordinary person- the contents of which did not have to be proved and some of them could not be proved because the people who were supposed to have said various things had died years before- was brought before the Queensland Parliament in order to denigrate my character. If that could happen to a person who was a nominee for this place it could very well happen to any person in Australia. These documents, which do not require proof but which are brought out of closets or made in surreptitious circumstances, could be used under section 47(a). 
If this were required for the security of Australia's defence there might be some justification for it but this Act will no longer be used just for the security of Australia or for any of its territories as it once was. It will be the vehicle for commercial uranium production in Australia. Why should we have such repressive measures which can and which possibly will be used for something concerning commercial production in Australia when one knows very well that there is great division in public opinion on this matter throughout Australia. I refer to section 47 (b), which in some respects is just as repressive. It states, in part: 
. it shall be deemed, unless the contrary is proved, to have been so dealt with with intent to prejudice the defence of the Commonwealth. 
Anyone who wants to examine the full section may do so. That part of section 47 places the onus of disproving intent to prejudice the defence of the Commonwealth on the defendant. In other words, the onus of proof is on the defendant. These are repressive sections which, taken by themselves and with sections 44, 45 and 46 of the Atomic Energy Act, can cause a person to be imprisoned for up to 20 years. I do not believe that we should be debating such an amendment to an Act which will be used for commercial production of uranium in Australia. Section 50 allows for detention and arrest without warrant of a person suspected of having committed certain offences. This, again, is a basic breach of civil liberties in Australia. Section 54 states: 
No action lies against the Commonwealth, a State, the Commission, a constable or a peace officer in respect of an arrest, apprehension, detention . . . 
If one is wrongfully detained or arrested under the provisions of this Act, no action lies against the Commonwealth or the State or the Atomic Energy Commission. Finally, I refer to section 58. The sections I have mentioned are not the only provisions of the Act which I find disturbing. Section 58 states: 
A person who does any act preparatory to the commission of an offence ... is guilty of that offence. 
For this he can be imprisoned for up to 20 years. What is the definition of 'preparatory'? We do not know. I sometimes have my suspicions about the way in which the Government is using this measure as part of the legislation it requires to enable uranium to be mined in Australia. One suspects that this measure is being used to suppress public opinion and to intimidate those who oppose uranium mining. I certainly hope that this is not so but if it is so, this Government will find that there will be such a groundswell of opinion that the oppression and intimidation will not be successful. As I mentioned earlier, when  Senator Baume  interjected, there will be a long and serious battle in Australia against uranium mining. That battle will not stop with the passing of this legislation and I am proud to say I will be in the forefront of this battle, as will the Labor Party. 
The threats of proliferation and weapons disposal which loom over us are too great to be disregarded. Therefore, somewhat unusual actions are required of the Opposition. We have outlined those unusual actions. Companies that are involved in uranium mining and those associated with it are well aware of what our actions will be. As well as expressing our point of view that uranium should not be mined, we are expressing a determination that we will not honour any commitment of a non-Labor government until we are sure that the problems associated with uranium mining are solved. Once they are solved we will look at our position again. But while there are disposal problems and problems of proliferation- as indeed there are- we will not support any commitment of a non-Labor government. 

 Senator Thomas who spoke before me said that this Government had made a firm commitment that it will not store waste from overseas. I have two comments to make on that. This Government has made lots of commitments. I remember that just before I became a member of this place the Government made commitments not to disband Medibank. It has done everything it possibly can to do so. It made commitments to provide employment opportunities for everybody in Australia. It has done everything but that. There is another aspect that one should look at.  Senator Thomas  said that this Government will not store waste from overseas. If that is the case there is still a waste problem. We are transferring the problem from one place to another. If we mine uranium we should have the moral responsibility to know that if some problems are not here they will be elsewhere. There are problems. Our position with regard to not honouring commitments of a non-Labor government until we are certain that the problems are solved is not a negotiable position. We will not move in our opposition. We care too much for the present generation of Australians and for future generations even to contemplate the possibility of negotiation. 
When speaking of uranium and the prospects of nuclear proliferation one should be mindful not only of belligerent nations and governments but also of terrorists. I have some misgivings about at least one country with which we seem to have entered into an arrangement in regard to our uranium. In addition, one does not need much imagination to consider the possibilities if terrorists use uranium in a belligerent way. A most unfortunate and disastrous incident happened overseas in the last 24 or 48 hours with regard to a former head of government. This gives us a clear indication of what terrorists will do. They have no regard for life or for what they might do with the weapons that they could produce. I urge those who say that it cannot happen to read some of the reports of how it can happen, of how terrorists could get hold of this material and use it against humanity. There is no guarantee that uranium mined in Australia will not end up being used in this way. 
The Fox report outlined the possibility in plain and indisputable terms. It would be folly to suggest that this possibility would not occur. I believe that if this Government really wants to take an international lead- in some respects the argument being presented about uranium mining is that we must take a lead and help the rest of the world- it would be far better off contributing towards solar energy research. Uranium, if it is used, will not last for ever as a source of energy. For as long as the human race is likely to want energy it will be able to obtain it from the sun but the amount of solar energy research being done in this country is pitiful indeed. In this financial year one of our major organisations, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, is spending about $1.5m, including overheads, on solar energy research. Prior to the debate this afternoon I was wondering how many times Parliament could be called together for $1.5m, the amount which we are giving to perhaps the best research organisation in Australia to spend on solar energy research. That amount of expenditure probably would be incurred in calling Parliament together five or six times on a weekly basis. The Australian Research Grants Committee has provided extra funds but for 1978 only a quarter of a million dollars has been made available. If we want to show the world that we are taking the lead in solving the energy problem we have to provide more funds for this area of research. This could have tremendous long-term effects. 
Earlier  Senator Thomas  outlined how he recently went to the Northern Territory and visited the area in which uranium mining will proceed. Along with a number of other honourable senators I had the opportunity of visiting the Kakadu National Park and some of the uranium mines which are outside it. I went with the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment. The members who participated were Senators Jessop and Bonner from the Government side and Senators Melzer, Mulvihill and myself from the Opposition. I agree with the comments of  Senator Thomas  about the beauty of this area. He explained it in a very apt way. He was almost poetic in some respects. One does get almost poetic when one looks at this area. It is an area of great beauty. It is an area of great significance to the Australian environment. I have made a point of not only having a look at the Kakadu National Park and the proposed uranium sites in the Northern Territory; on a number of occasions I have gone to Mary Kathleen in my own State where uranium mining is proceeding. If one has not seen such areas one debates a Bill such as this on a theoretical basis only. 
We travelled extensively in that area of the Northern Territory. We travelled principally by air, by both fixed-wing aircraft and helicopter. We took a great amount of time. After having seen all that area I am nowhere convinced that there are no dangers to it if uranium mining proceeds. If uranium mining proceeds there and the area is spoilt because of pollution effects, it will take millions of years for it to return to its present beauty. I saw the area during the wet season and I was given a good indication of the problems that could occur if the mining of uranium takes place there. I conclude by saying that I cannot be a party to the amendment to this Act. I will be voting against the Bill. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In relation to passenger service charges made by locally owned airports in Australia, can the Minister advise whether for some airports these charges require no government authorisation? If so, what is the category of airport which is not required to obtain authorisation to charge a passenger service fee? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 22 February 1 978: 
Were some Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme payments delayed in Queensland this year due to cheques being dated wrongly; if so: (a) what date was placed on the cheques; (b) what date should have been placed on the cheques; (c) were some students whose payments were delayed informed earlier that their first payment would be made about 6 February; (d) when did the students whose payments were delayed receive their first payments for 1 978: (e) how many students were affected; (f) how did the error occur; and (g) what steps have been taken to ensure the error will not be repeated. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
Have any applications been made by the Department of Social Security in Queensland for additional staff since 1 January 1 977; if so, what additional staff were requested and how many additional staff were appointed. 
asked the Minister for Education the following question, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1978: 
Were applications for new course approvals for 1978 made from any colleges of advanced education in Queensland; if so, (a) what applications were made; (b) which applications, if any, were successful; and (c) why were the other applications refused approval. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister: Was an approach for Commonwealth Government financial assistance made in the past 12 months by or on behalf of the phosphate mining company at the Monument in Queensland? 
-At the Monument, which is just outside Mount Isa. If an approach was made, what assistance was requested and what was the Government's decision in relation to the request? 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice, on 4 April 1 978: 
What are the details of the drought and natural disaster relief measures suggested by the Premier of Queensland and approved by the Prime Minister, referred to in the Brisbane  Courier Mail,  31 March 1978. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 6 April 1 978: 
1 ) How many persons in each State and Territory and in Australia as a whole have received either Supporting Mother's Benefit or Supporting Parent's Benefit for each quarter since the Supporting Mother's Benefit was introduced. 
How many of these persons were: (a) male) and (b) female. 
) How many males received a Special Benefit in lieu of a Supporting Parent's Benefit before that benefit was introduced, for each quarter since the Supporting Mother's Benefit was introduced. 
asked the Minister for Education the following question, upon notice, on 10 April 1978: 
1 ) Did the Queensland Teacher Board of Education give approval in 1977 to the North Brisbane College of Advanced Education to institute a Bachelor of Education course in 1978: if so. what are the details? 
Did the Federal Government subsequently refuse to approve the course concerned; if so, why? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 1 April 1 978: 
What is the location of each social worker currently employed by the Department of Social Security in Queensland, referred to in the Minister's reply in Question No. 3 1 ( Senate  Hansard.  4 April 1 978, page 804): 
Early in February of this year I was notified by  Mr Ray  Lette of the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union in Queensland of a situation concerning the refusal to pay unemployment benefit to workers at the Roma meatworks. My information on this matter is as follows: Anderson 's meatworks in Roma closed on 24 November 1977 for its annual shutdown. Certain members of the union applied for unemployment benefit when their leave entitlements were exhausted. I looked at this matter after  Mr Lette  referred it to me and it seemed to me that these employees, after having found themselves out of work, had been wrongly refused unemployment benefit. If I might digress for a moment, I ask the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  whether the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  will be in the chamber this evening. If she will not it would probably be worth while if I continued what I want to say at a later stage. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. The Minister will recall that he recently advised me in an answer to a question on notice that at least one of the major Australian airlines will provide information to the Parliament about the travel arrangements of private persons. Does the Minister regard this practice as satisfactory or does he regard it as a serious assault on personal privacy? If the Minister does not regard the matter as satisfactory, will he take steps to ensure that the practice will cease? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 April 1978: 
1 ) Under what legislation or regulation is the Federal Government empowered to provide publicly details of airline tickets such as were provided in the answer to Question No. 27 (Senate  Hansard,  15 March 1978, page 654). 
Is the Federal Government able to provide details of airline tickets sold by Ansett Airlines of Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1978. 
What are the details of the failure of navigation and safety aids on the ground between Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane Airports on 10 April [978, as reported by the Australian Federation of Air Pilots. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What are the 'large tenders for sophisticated units' which are emerging' in the Taxation Commission referred to in the article 'New-generation typewriters outsmart the old electrics', the  Financial Review,  1 May 1978. 
Today I intend to discuss a topic which should be of concern to all members of the Federal Parliament. The matter that I shall debate is one of the basic tenets of Australian democracy, namely, the freedom of the individual to offer himself for public service in the Parliament. In the course of my comments today I shall outline how, whilst this freedom theoretically exists, certain Australians find that their ability to nominate for Federal office is severely limited. Since the thirtyfirst Parliament commenced, several honourable senators have addressed themselves to the problems faced by Queensland public servants who are candidates in a Federal election. It has been outlined in this place that these public servants, after having unsuccessfully contested a place in the Federal Parliament, have difficulty in returning to their positions in the State Public Service. 
Honourable senators will remember a particular case which has received attention- that of  Mr Bill  Wood.  Mr Wood  was the Australian Labor Party's candidate for the Federal seat of Leichhardt in the 1977 election. A former member of the Queensland State Parliament,  Mr Wood  was teaching prior to the 1977 Federal election. He was employed by the Queensland Department of Education. Because of certain provisions of section 44 of the Commonwealth Constitution,  Mr Wood  was obliged to resign his position in the State Public Service prior to nominating for the seat of Leichhardt last year. I shall mention section 44 in some detail at a later stage. Honourable senators are aware that  Mr Wood  did not win the seat of Leichhardt. He therefore sought to resume teaching in the Queensland Department of Education. However, his application for re-appointment was refused, apparently through the direct intervention of the Queensland Premier,  Mr BjelkePetersen. 
It is extremely unfortunate that the case of  Mr Wood  has been made a public issue and that he and his family have had to be the subject of claims and counter-claims in the Press and in this Parliament. Earlier this year I deliberately said nothing about the matter publicly. I had hoped that reason would prevail and that  Mr Wood  's problems of re-admission to the State Public Service would be resolved quietly and without any expression of bitterness. Believing that I could assist- be a mediator in what had become a delicate political issue- I discussed the matter with certain officials of the Queensland Teachers Union. They were happy for me to take the action which I proposed and I thus sought an interview with the Premier of Queensland. I intended to outline to him that  Mr Wood  resigned only because he was compelled to do so because of the provisions of section 44 of the Constitution. If I had been able to see him, I would have pointed out that if  Mr Wood  had stood for a place in the State Parliament he would not have been compelled to resign. In that case, he would have retained his position as a teacher. 
I had expected, perhaps naively, that the Premier would see me. But he would not. The message was relayed back to me that he did not want to see me. Undoubtedly, he was fearful that he would not have an adequate answer to my comments. Undaunted, I tried to arrange to see the Acting Minister for Education in Queensland,  Mr Newberry.  Unfortunately, our schedules did not permit a meeting while  Mr Newberry  was Acting Minister for Education. When I realised that  Mr Newberry  and I would not be able to discuss the matter, I considered that my next move should be to see the Queensland Minister for Education,  Mr Bird,  on his return to Queensland. As soon as  Mr Bird  returned, however, he made inflammatory statements about  Mr Wood.  I realised then that reason would not prevail and reluctantly but realistically discontinued my efforts. 
I will not pursue  Mr Wood's  case in any further detail. I do wish to place on record, however, that I hold the view that the actions of the Queensland Premier in this whole matter should be soundly condemned by all members of this Parliament. Political leaders in Australia should do everything possible to foster the cause of democracy. Deliberately to deprive a defeated candidate of his livelihood is a slur on Australian democratic processes.  Mr Wood  's case is not an isolated one in Queensland. It is easy, but unnecessary for me at this stage, to outline details of other cases, including my own. Given these events in Queensland, it is timely that we in the Senate pay attention to the problems faced by public servants who wish to stand for election to the Federal Parliament. Many members of this Parliament have, at some time, stressed the need for men and women of vision and ability to stand for Parliament, especially if those men and women believe that they can make a significant contribution to serving their fellow Australians. 
With Parliamentary democracy under some threat in this modern age, it is of great importance that as few restrictions as possible are placed on people who desire to contest Federal elections. Yet, because of the Commonwealth Constitution, one group of people in particular are severely restricted if they wish to stand for Parliament. These are employees of the Public Service, both State and Federal. The time is long overdue for a reappraisal of the restrictions facing public servants who wish to stand for Federal Parliament. Our system of government to a large extent is based on democratic competition between political parties and candidates. Provided justice prevails, election results are accepted by both the victor and the vanquished. 
As has been outlined in this chamber, justice does not prevail in the State of Queensland. Indeed,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  has coined a new slogan for Labor candidates in Queensland.  His  slogan is: 'If you miss out, look out'.  His  attitude towards public servants who stand for the Labor Party is assisted by section 44 of the Constitution. It is worth while that we look at those actual provisions of the Constitution which affect public servants who wish to stand for Federal Parliament. It is also profitable to look at the obstacles which are faced by a public servant who contests a State election. Section 44 of the Constitution provides, amongst other things, that any person who 'holds any office or place of profit under the Crown, or any pension payable during the pleasure of the Crown out of the revenues of the Commonwealth shall be incapable of being chosen or of sitting as a  Senator or  a member of the House of Representatives'. The effect of this section is that a member of the Commonwealth or State Public Service who seeks election to the Federal Parliament must resign prior to nomination. If the public servant does not resign and is successful in the election, he runs the risk of having his place in the House of Representatives or the Senate being declared vacant. 
If a Commonwealth public servant resigns to seek election and is unsuccessful, sections 47c and 82b of the Commonwealth Public Service Act 1922 provide that he may be re-appointed. I stress the word 'may'. These provisions- sections 47c and 82b- state only that a person who was a public servant or a temporary public servant, and who resigned to contest an election, may be re-appointed by the Public Service Board. It is not obligatory that he be re-appointed. That is, the public servant has no automatic right of reappointment. 
Despite the lack of right of re-appointment, I am not aware of a case where a Commonwealth public servant has been refused permission to rejoin the Commonwealth Public Service after contesting an election. However, let us consider what could occur if Australia had a  Mr BjelkePetersen  as Prime Minister. It would not be long before the Commonwealth public servant who unsuccessfully contested an election was refused re-appointment to the Public Service. It must be remembered that the public servant is obliged to resign because of the provisions of section 44 of the Constitution. This is the key to the situation in which the public servant candidate finds himself. My study of this matter leads me to conclude that it may not be possible to frame legislation to guarantee re-appointment while section 44 of the Constitution remains unchanged. 
It is pertinent to examine the position of State public servants who resign to seek election to Federal Parliament. The position varies from State to State but most States have legislation, in similar terms to the Commonwealth legislation, which provides for the re-appointment of unsuccessful candidates. In Queensland, the Crown Employees Act 1958 section 3 covers the case of a Queensland public servant who resigns to contest a Federal election. But here again, the Act states that the Governor-in-Council may reappoint the person concerned to the Public Service. Again, re-appointment to the Public Service is not automatic. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was discussing section 44 of the Constitution and how it relates to public servants who are standing for election to the Federal Parliament. I was outlining the position of State public servants who resign to seek election to the Federal Parliament. I mentioned that the position varies from State to State and that most States have legislation in terms similar to the Commonwealth legislation which provides for the reappointment of unsuccessful candidates. I outlined the situation in Queensland under the Crown Employees Act. 
I refer now to the relevant legislation in other States. In Tasmania it is section 3 of the Crown Servants Reinstatement Act 1970; in South 
Australia it is section 44 of the Public Service Act 1967; and in Victoria it is section 49 of the Constitution Act Amendment Act 1958. There is no specific legislation in New South Wales, but the New South Wales Public Service Board procedure handbook has a provision covering reappointment. The situation in Western Australia is more complicated. Regulation 89 of the Western Australian Public Service Act Regulations 1964 provides that an officer may be granted leave of absence to conduct a State or Federal election campaign. The leave dates from the commencement of business on the working day next following the date on which nominations for candidates close. The regulation further provides that if elected the officer shall resign from the day before he becomes entitled to a member's salary. If not elected, he must resume duty on the day after his approved leave expires. Despite the fact that this regulation is expressed to cover elections to State or Federal Parliament, I am advised that it is considered unlikely that it could in fact be applicable to Federal elections because of section 44 of the Commonwealth Constitution. The regulation does not specify any reappointment rights if an officer resigns to contest an election. Therefore, it remains uncertain whether a Western Australian public servant who resigned to contest a Federal election would be reappointed automatically. 
It is important to note that the situation is quite different for public servants who wish to contest a State election. Certainly a Commonwealth public servant who wishes to seek nomination for election to a State parliament is required to resign. The requirement is not due to any constitutional provisions but rather to a general order of the Commonwealth Public Service Board. Paragraph 3/D/4 of the Board's general orders provides that: 
An officer or employee who wishes to nominate for a House of Parliament, whether Federal or State Parliament, must resign from the service before nomination. Leave of absence will not be granted to any officer or employee to enable him to campaign for election. 
On the other hand a State public servant seeking election to a State Parliament is generally not required to resign. Most States have legislation, usually the Constitution Act, which disqualifies a person holding an office or place of profit under the Crown from seeking election to State Parliament. However, legislation enabling public servants to qualify as candidates without resignation has been passed in all States except South Australia. State public servants are usually granted leave to contest elections. If they are successful they are deemed to have resigned. It should be noted however that the New South 
Wales legislation covers only New South Wales public servants. Presumably Commonwealth public servants and public servants of other States would still be required to resign to contest a State election in New South Wales. 
In South Australia the position is not entirely clear. The Public Service Board in South Australia advises public servants who wish to nominate to resign in order to avoid the possibility of breaching section 49 of the South Australian Constitution Act 1934. If the public servant does not resign the Board is at present not prepared to grant leave for the purpose of contesting an election though there is nothing to prevent it from doing so. The Board apparently is aware of being a party to a defective declaration of eligibility for election by a public servant. If the public servant resigns and fails to be elected he may be reappointed pursuant to section 44 of the South Australian Public Service Act 1 967. 
Legislative provisions require public servants to resign before seeking election to the Legislative Assembly in the Northern Territory. Section 4ka of the Northern Territory (Administration) Act 1970 as amended by the Northern Territory (Administration) Act 1974 disqualifies a person employed in the Public Service of the Territory or of the Commonwealth from being a candidate for election to the Legislative Assembly. Therefore a public servant must resign in order to contest a Legislative Assembly election. On the other hand, no restrictions apply to public servants seeking election to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. From this review it may be seen that the public servant who contests a Federal election is treated more harshly than his counterpart who contests a State election. The most salient feature in regard to State elections is that in all States except South Australia no constitutional requirements necessitate State public servants to resign to contest a State election in their own State. 
I referred earlier to the Crown Employees Act of 1958 in Queensland. Section 3 provides that the Governor-in-Council may reappoint someone to the State Public Service after he or she has resigned to contest a Federal election. During the debate on the introduction of the Crown Employees Bill into the Queensland Parliament in October 1958 there was discussion about whether the Bill would be constitutional if the right of reappointment was included in its provisions. I was particularly interested to read the comments of the then Country Party Premier of Queensland,  Mr Nicklin-  later  Sir Francis  Nicklin- during the debate in question. When questioned whether reappointment would be a right or a favour  Mr Nicklin  replied, as reported at page 653 of the Queensland  Hansard  of 15 October 1958: 
The Government are a fair government, and any application from any public servant who has resigned will be given very fair consideration. 
It is a pity that these sentiments were not held by one of  Sir Francis's  successors,  Mr BjelkePetersen.  If that were the case, the matter of  Mr Bill  Wood, to whom I referred earlier, would not have arisen. I trust that I have made it clear to both sides of the chamber that in terms of justice we must do something about the position of public servants who nominate for Federal Parliament. There seems to me to be only one course of action to take- to ask the Australian people to alter the Constitution to remove the requirement which obliges public servants to resign to contest a Federal election. Anything short of this would not be acceptable. Removal of this constitutional requirement would allow public servants the same basic freedom to nominate for political office as is enjoyed by other Australian adults. If a constitutional change is made, it may still be necessary to alter some existing legislation or regulations which unnecessarily fetter the rights of public servants to stand for election. This is a matter which may be pursued after section 44 is altered. 
I do not intend to outline the specific changes that should be made to section 44. These changes may be outlined when a Bill to alter the Constitution is brought before the Parliament. It is my opinion, however, that alterations to section 44 is long overdue. I am hopeful that senators and members who are interested in this question will provide me with their comments on my suggestion of a constitutional alteration. Similarly, I am hopeful that interested parties outside this Parliament will forward their comments to me. Armed with comments from others it may be possible for me to work towards the goal of providing public servants with the same rights to offer themselves for election as are enjoyed by their fellow Australians. 

 - Senator Carrick will remember that last week, as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, he sent off what he termed to be a strong signal on my behalf. That signal was much more successful than one that I sent today. I wish to outline some of the circumstances surrounding an experience I had in sending a telegram today. I recall that in the Estimates committee hearings early this year I related a story about an incident that happened to me in north Queensland late last year. I walked into a north Queensland post office and asked to send a telegram to Brisbane. The postmaster quickly explained to me that one does not send telegrams any more because, in his words, they are too costly to send. He advised me to telephone instead. I assured him that I had a good reason for sending a telegram and in fact did so. This experience outlined to me the type of thought that is becoming prevalent about the sending of telegrams- that they are too costly. Not only are they too costly; they do not seem to work properly. 
My experience today suggests to me that anyone who sends a telegram is simply wasting his money. I suspect that Telecom Australia welcomes the donation made to its funds, but this is probably not of much help to the person who sends the telegram. This morning I wanted to send a telegram to the Brisbane suburb Bulimba. It is not very far from the General Post Office and therefore should not have created any delivery problem. I had a special reason for sending a telegram; I did not want to make a telephone call. Perhaps naively, I did not send the telegram before 9 o'clock because I knew that the person to whom I was sending it would not be at the delivery address until about 10.30 a.m. I delayed until a little after 9 o'clock, thinking that if I did so the telegram would arrive shortly after the person arrived at that address. Of course, there was somebody at that address all the time so that if a telegram had arrived before 10.30 a.m. it certainly would have been delivered. The telegram eventually arrived this afternoon, and I will deal with the time that it did arrive. When I made inquiries tonight by telephone I found that the stamp on the telegram indicated that it had been lodged at 9. 1 9 a.m. That would be about the case because I remember that it was about that time that I sent it over the telephone. It arrived at Morningside, a suburb of Brisbane not far from Bulimba, at 9.49 a.m. So it took 30 minutes to go from Canberra to Morningside, which I think is quite reasonable. 
The person to whom I sent the telegram arrived at the address at about 10.20 a.m. and as she arrived she inspected the letterbox, thinking that if there was any mail she would take it to the person who was in the house at the time. There was no mail; in fact, there was nothing in the letterbox. The person left the address at 2.15 p.m., having been there all the time. At 2.15 p.m. she again inspected the letterbox to check whether there was any mail and there was no telegram in the box at that time. She left the address at 2.15 p.m. and did not go back for the rest of the day. So the telegram I sent at 9.19 a.m. had not arrived at Bulimba by 2. 1 5 p.m. The person who was in the house earlier stayed there until 3.20 p.m. and went out from 3.20 p.m. until about 5.30 p.m. Some time after she arrived back she checked the letterbox and found the telegram there. Assuming that the telegram arrived shortly after the person left at 3.20 in the afternoon, and I suspect that it arrived in the time frame from 3.20 p.m. to 5.30 p.m., it took five and a half hours to go about three kilometres from Morningside to Bulimba. Any form of transport could travel three kilometres in much less than five and a half hours. 
I suspect that if I had signed my full name on the telegram and had indicated that I am a senator for Queensland the telegram would have been delivered much more quickly. But for personal reasons all I did on this occasion was to sign my given name and therefore there would have been no indication as to who the sender was. That indicates to me that my telegram would not have been given a different priority from a telegram sent from anywhere else. I do not know whether that is the normal rate at which a telegram is delivered, but it is simply not good enough. Telegrams are expensive enough, without sending them and not getting any results. I remind the public that they risk wasting their money if they send telegrams. I suggest that if Telecom wishes to discontinue its telegram service it should say so, and say so clearly. It should not do so by simply dissuading people from sending telegrams because of the complete lack of service. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to a report that  Mr Iwasaki  has said that he hoped the Government would fully develop the Rockhampton Airport so that it could take large numbers of tourists in future. Has the Government received any proposals from  Mr Iwasaki  for future development of the airport at Rockhampton? Whilst not desiring to enter into any intrastate conflict I ask the Minister whether it is likely that redevelopment of the Brisbane Airport will be delayed so that the Rockhampton Airport, to fulfil  Mr Iwasaki  's hopes, may be developed instead. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 4 April 1 978: 
1 ) Where are agencies of the Commonwealth Employment Service located in Queensland. 
2 ) What is the grade of each agent. 
What fees are currently payable to the various grades of agent. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I preface it by remarking that people who are referred by the Commonwealth Employment Service to job vacancies often spend considerable amounts on fares to attend their interview. My attention was recently brought to a case where a person spent $3.50 in fares, only to find that the taxi driver to whom he had been referred by the CES did not keep the appointment. I therefore ask whether there is any system under which those who are referred by the CES to a vacancy may receive some reimbursement of fares? 
The Senate is debating the International Sugar Agreement Bill 1978, which has had a rather slow progress through the Senate. It was introduced in this place on 12 April and debate did not occur after the second reading speech until 9 May, which is the last date on which anyone in the Senate spoke on this Bill. So it is now 22 days since any comment was made on it and I have been in continuation for 22 days. During that time there have been major changes in the international situation with regard to sugar. Because it is so long since I spoke on the Bill I intend to recapitulate some of the comments I made on 9 May. My remarks refer principally to Queensland, not because I am a representative of Queensland but because by far the greatest amount of sugar produced in Australia is grown there. In fact, 95 per cent of Australia's sugar is grown in that State. Sugar is a very important crop, not only for Queensland but for Australia. Australia is the fourth largest producer in the world of cane sugar, and sugar is second in value to wheat amongst crops grown in Australia. In Queensland it is of far greater value than any other crop grown, the value of the sugar crop being about 50 per cent of all crops grown there. 
If one considers the value of sugar exports from Australia one gains an idea of the value of sugar to Australia. In 1966-67 the value of sugar exports was $638m. That amount does not mean much unless it is related in some way to the value of other exports. It is interesting to note that in that financial year $638m represented 12.4 per cent of the value of Australia's rural exports and 5.5 per cent of all exports. Not only is the sugar industry important in terms of the value of export earnings, it is also important as a major employer throughout Australia. The employment statistics obtained in the Australian census on 30 June 1971 indicated that a total of 22,274 people were employed directly in the sugar industry. Those employed in sugar cane growing and harvesting numbered 12,403, and a further 9,87 1 people were employed in the manufacture of raw and refined sugar and other by-products. The total of 22,000 is a not inconsiderable number. The employment figures included persons employed transporting sugar on the Colonial Sugar Refineries' own railway tracks but did not include persons such as railway employees and stevedores who would occasionally handle sugar and sugar products. Thus there were probably far more than the 22,274 people I mentioned who owed their livelihood to the sugar industry in Australia. 
When I spoke previously on this Bill I mentioned briefly the three international marketing arrangements that have affected Australia's sugar industry. I would like to go over them once again because they are pertinent to the Bill under discussion, which outlines a marketing agreement to help the sugar industry in Australia. The first of the three arrangements is the International Sugar Agreement, which was first negotiated in 1937 and sought to lift depressed world market prices by a system of export quotas. World War II, however, precluded its operation. In 1953 a new International Sugar Agreement was negotiated. There were then various breaks in the agreement, followed by newly negotiated agreements. The second marketing agreement was the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement, which was signed in 1951 following a conference of British Commonwealth sugar exporters. As the name indicates, the agreement was signed by Commonwealth countries which either exported or imported sugar. The Commonwealth Sugar Agreement terminated at the end of 1974. The third marketing arrangement affecting Australia's sugar industry was the United States Sugar Act. Under that Act Australia was allotted a percentage share of United States foreign sugar requirements. Like the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement, the United States agreement also terminated at the end of 1974. 
As well as those three principal marketing agreements, Australia traditionally has held long term contracts with countries overseas since it became a sugar exporter. At present we have longterm contracts with Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, Singapore and South Korea. It is noteworthy that in recent times we have had some difficulties with some of these contracts when the sugar price has become much lower than it was when the contracts were first signed. Nevertheless these long-term contracts are vital to the welfare of the Australian sugar industry. 
I now turn to the current agreement that we are discussing in the International Sugar Agreement Bill. The basic objectives of the new agreement which are outlined in this Bill are to achieve stable conditions in international trade in sugar within a price range which is acceptable to both exporters and importers and to provide adequate supplies of sugar to meet the requirements of importing countries at fair and reasonable prices. What must be realised, however, is that there is no guarantee of a minimum price in the agreement. There is an aim in the agreement to establish a price for sugar within the range of SUS0.1 1 to SUS0.21 lb. However, the short-term prospects of reaching SUS0.11 are not good. Although the aim is to have the price within the range of SUS0.11 to SUS0.21, the stabilisation price intended is about $US0. 1 4 or SUS0. 151b. 
When I was speaking in this debate three weeks ago I pointed out that the current international price at that stage was SUS0.076 lb, which was far below the minimum priced aimed at of SUS0.1 1 lb. Since then the price has firmed slightly, and yesterday in London the market price was SUS0.085 lb. So there has been a marginal increase in price. But even if we take this latest price of SUS0.085 lb we can see that it is far below the minimum price aimed at of $US0. 1 1 lb and far below the intended stabilisation price of SUS0.14 to SUS0.15 lb. So I point out that there is no guaranteed price in this agreement. The agreement aims at getting a price within a certain range and, at the moment, that price range is above the international price for sugar. 
I pointed out when I spoke on an earlier date that failure to get the European Economic Community to sign this agreement was a fairly bitter blow to the Australian sugar industry, in fact to all the signatories to the agreement. If the EEC is determined to go it alone, I have grave doubts that the minimum price that is intended will ever be reached. If it is reached, it may take a long time. The EEC is the world's largest producer of sugar and the fact that it is not a signatory means that there is a major gap in this agreement. 
At the conclusion of my remarks on the last occasion, just before the Senate adjourned, I was citing an article in the London newspaper, the  Guardian  in relation to the EEC and the amount of surplus sugar that was available. Let me quote this again because I think it is pertinent to the argument that I will be developing. In April of this year in the  Guardian  there appeared an article, part of which stated: 
The West is overflowing with sugar; world stocks are expected to soar to well over 30 million tonnes and probably reach record levels at the end of this season, the European Common Market is expected to have a surplus on its hands this year of 3.3 million tonnes and world prices are in the doldrums. 
Common Market governments backed by their powerful sugar lobbies, have refused so far to join the International Sugar Agreement- in spite of all their talk about the need to stabilise commodity prices- because they refuse to accept restrictions on their exports. Britain, traditionally relying on secure supplies of cane from Commonwealth countries, is expanding its own beet industry, encouraged by high guaranteed EEC prices. 
When one considers that article one can see that the fact that the EEC is not one of the signatories is of vital importance to Australia. If we were able to have the EEC as one of the signatories to the agreement, the agreement would provide a much better future for the Australian industry. However, looking at all the factors that are involved we realise that, even though the EEC was not a signatory, Australia had no real choice but to sign the agreement. If we were to have a stabilised industry in Australia, especially in Queensland, and if we were to be able to plan ahead properly and expect not to have the boom or bust situation that we have often had with the sugar industry, Australia had to sign the agreement. 
Of course, there will be some disadvantages to Australia. If the world free market price does not reach $US0. 1 1 lb as I indicated earlier, Australia will be restricted to its minimum export entitlement of approximately 2 million tonnes. If we add another 0.9 million tonnes for domestic sales we can see that the amount of sales that would be provided by the sugar industry would be less than that at previous production levels. That will mean either that we will have less sugar grown or that we will have a surplus and therefore storage problems. The prospects for the Australian sugar industry depend heavily on the International Sugar Agreements achieving its objectives. A stable export price is imperative for the sugar industry in Australia. For that reason, but with the reservations that I have noted, the Opposition does not oppose the Bill. I support the amendment which has been moved by my colleague  Senator Walsh. 
Despite a too widely held belief in the community to the contrary, there are many unemployed persons in the community who actively seek out work, even to the extent of travelling vast distances in looking for work. Unfortunately, those who take such active steps to look for work are often disadvantaged because of their burning desire to obtain work. For the information of the Senate I wish to read a copy of a letter I received from the Social Security Appeals Tribunal in relation to representations that I made on behalf of a person who was not granted unemployment benefit. I read this letter because it is pertinent to my argument. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 6 April 1978: 
1 ) What was the average number of paid training days per soldier or officer in Army Reserve units in Australia in the financial years: (a) 1972-73 and (b) 1973-74. 
Which units in Queensland exceeded the averages mentioned in ( 1 ), and in the answer to part ( 1 ) of Question No. 28 (Senate  Hansard,  4 April 1978, page 803), in each financial year from 1972-73 to 1976-77. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Were inspections carried out, by officers of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, of the rehabilitation of sandmined areas on Fraser Island since 3 1 December 1976, when sandmining ceased; if so, when. 
Are the ex gratia payments conditional on the satisfactory revegetation of sandmined areas on Fraser Island. 
Were the officers who inspected the rehabilitation work of Queensland Titanium Mines Pty Ltd on Fraser Island satisfied with the rehabilitation. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 3 May 1 978: 
Is a gold coin to be minted soon; if so, (a) when will it be minted; (b) what will be its face value; (c) will it have exact metric measurements; and (d) will it bear a portrait of  Sir John  Kerr. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
What evidence exists for the assertion by the Reserve Forces Committee National  Chairman, Mr Alan  Edwards, that those who leave the Army Reserve within two years of recruiting do so, 'mainly because of the pressure of training on their work', as reported in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail,  15 April 1978. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 978: 
What is the estimated total difference between the projected expenditures for 1978 and 1979 for the various education commissions under the guidelines announced on 26 May 1976 and 3 June 1977. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
How many appeals relating to: (a) unemployment benefit, (b) sickness benefit; (c) age pension; (d) invalid pension; (e) supporting mother's benefit; (f) special benefit; (g) family allowance; (h) orphan's pension; (i) widow's pension; (j) domiciliary nursing care benefit; (k) nursing home benefit; (1) handicapped child's allowance; (m) maternity allowance; and (n) student allowance, were dealt with in each State by Social Security Appeals Tribunals in the March, June, September and December quarters of 1977. 
What were the detailed results of the appeals in question corresponding to the headings provided in Minister's answer to Senate Question No. 1 30. (Senate  Hansard,  4 May 1976, page 1515). 
(a) How many appeals were upheld by the Department of Social Security as a result of Departmental reconsideration without referral to the Social Security Appeals Tribunals for final determination of the appeals; and (b) are any such instances recorded in the tables to be supplied by the Minister in response to Pans ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of this question; if so, what proportion is thus recorded and under which heading are they presented. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, but the Leader of the Government in the Senate might think that the question would be more properly directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Has the Commonwealth Government recieved an environmental impact statement on the proposed Iwasaki tourist development at Yeppoon? If so, who prepared the statement and what has been the result of a study of the statement? If the Commonwealth Government has not received an environmental impact statement on the proposed development, does it expect to receive one in the near future? 
During the Estimates Committee debate there was some quite spirited questioning on the topic of parent contributions to schools in the Australian Capital Territory. I asked a number of questions, as did  Senator Wriedt  and  Senator Young.  One question that I asked, and to which I received an answer after the Estimates Committee hearings had concluded, said in part: 
Has any student in the Australian Capital Territory been excluded from a particular elective because of non-payment of particular fees? 
My question arose because we were advised that for particular electives in secondary schools in the Australian Capital Territory varying rates of parent contributions were expected. The ones that were singled out specifically were woodwork, metalwork and work that girls do, such as needlework. The answer I received was fairly satisfactory. However, it concluded: 
A number of options are available to students in elective programs and within elective subjects so that it should be possible for participation which does not require financial contributions from the parents of the students. 
That paragraph seems to imply a policy that if a person cannot pay the fee or does not want to pay it an option should be taken that does not require the fee payment. This matter was discussed recently in the report of Schools Commission issued in April this year, and paragraph 3.25 of the report states in part: 
For the 1979-81 triennium the Commission believes that target resource standards should be such that if achieved would allow real resources in schools equivalent to the following example configuration: 
A number of options from (a) to (j) are listed. For instance, (a) states:  teaching staff sufficient to ensure that: infants classes need not exceed 25 students primary or junior secondary classes need not exceed 30 students senior secondary classes need not exceed 25 students; 
The examples continue through to (j), which is the one pertinent to the question I asked. It states:  sufficient cash resources to obviate the necessity for semicompulsory fees in government schools for the purchase of needed equipment and consumable resources. 
I presume that (j) is referring to the type of contribution that we were discussing in the Estimates Commitee hearings; that is, the contributions payable within schools in the Australian Capital Territory. I presume also from that comment in the report of the Schools Commission that it should not be too long, if target resource standards are achieved, before those contributions are no longer required. I should like to hear from the Minister whether from 1979 onwards- and if not 1979, from what date- we will be able to expect that the question of parent resources at schools within the Australian Capital Territory will no longer arise because sufficient cash resources will be available to the schools to obviate the necessity for the fees. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
What is the current level of unemployment in the Hervey Bay Town, Maryborough City and Widgee Shire areas. 
How many former Fraser Island sandmining employees in each of these three local authority areas are still unemployed. 
Has any form of direct personal payment by the Commonwealth to former Fraser Island sandminers been agreed to. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
Has there ever been an agency of the Commonwealth Employment Service at Winton, Queensland; if so, for what period did it operate. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, follows a question asked earlier this afternoon by 

 Senator Coleman in relation to further appeals following decisions made by social security appeals tribunals. The Minister mentioned appeals to the Ombudsman. Is it a fact that the Ombudsman has powers of recommendation only, but the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, where it has the power to hear appeals, can actually reverse an administrative decision? Is the Minister aware of any recommendation made by the Ombudsman in relation to social security benefits which has not been accepted by her Department? 
The Senate is debating the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill 1978. As my colleague  Senator Georges  pointed out, we in the Opposition do not oppose this Bill. Therefore I wish to use the debate on the Bill to highlight some of the problems in relation to public transport in Brisbane. Except in isolated cases public transport in Brisbane is either by way of Brisbane City Council buses or by suburban rail. Despite the popular belief to the contrary buses carry far more passengers in Brisbane than do trains. I shall cite patronage figures for 1976-77 for both the Brisbane City Council buses and the suburban rail service. In that financial year Brisbane City Council buses handled 47.9 million passenger journeys. Suburban rail services, including Ipswich, handled 29.3 million passenger journeys. 
They were increasing figures, especially for buses. I give the breakdown for buses and trains to indicate that far more passengers travelled by buses than by trains. There is a unique situation with regard to buses in Brisbane. The buses are being funded principally by ratepayers. In other words, property taxes are being used to fund the deficiencies which show up in the financial statement of the Brisbane City Council bus service. Brisbane is unique among capital cities in Australia in that it funds some of its public transport services from property taxes. So the ratepayers in Brisbane are being forced to make up the deficit in bus revenue. I illustrate how this deficit for the Council has increased over the past four years. To do so, I seek leave of the Senate to incorporate in  Hansard  a summary of the financial results of the Brisbane City Council transport undertakings over the last four years. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="077232197806072_54_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Senate. This table shows the financial results of the Brisbane City Council transport undertaking from 1973-74 to 1976-77. We see that in 1973-74 it had a deficit of $3. 9m. This was $3. 9m which had to be made up from ratepayers' funds. The next year the deficit increased from $3. 9m to $5.5m. In 1975-76 it increased to $6.9m. In 1976-77- the last year for which complete figures are available- the deficit increased to $9.4m. So in 1976-77 a total of $9.4m for the Brisbane City Council transport undertaking had to be made up through property rates. This is a great drain on the ratepayers of Brisbane and obviously it increases the rate burden. Some suggestion has been made recently that certain funds which were allocated to the Queensland Government by the Grants Commission were allocated because of the deficit from the Brisbane City Council bus service. There have also been further suggestions that these funds were not passed on from the State Government to the Brisbane City Council. But this is probably not a proper time to debate that matter. A more proper time will be when the Grants Commission Bill is being debated later this year. I point out, however, that the Brisbane City Council transport undertaking has not received its fair share of funds made available under the Act which this Bill will supersede. To illustrate this situation I seek leave of the Senate to incorporate in  Hansard  a table entitled: 'Metropolitan Transit Authority, Expenditures to 30 June 1 977 '. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="077232197806072_55_1.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Senate. This table shows the funding under the terms of the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act 1974. On the left side of the table are listed nine approved projects which received funding under the 1974 Act. The first one listed is the cross river rail link which was mentioned by my colleague  Senator Georges.  The ninth project mentioned is the south side platform. The first three projectsthe cross river rail link; electrification of the Ferny Grove-Darra section of the line and the additional trackage from Roma Street to Northgate were approved in 1973-74. Projects 4 to 8 in this table- that is the fixed system design in regard to engineering of the rail service; electrification of the Ipswich-Darra line; electrification of the Northgate-Shorncliffe line; minor interchanges and acquisition of 30 buses- were approved in 1974-75. In 1976-77 the ninth project- the south side platform- was approved. When one examines this table one can see that except for item No. 8- that is the 30 buses- almost all of the rest of the expenditure is on rail services in Brisbane. Some expenditure under item No. 7- minor interchanges- is to do with co-ordinated bus-rail transport services. Out of a total of $34m spent to date on these nine projects, only $1.9m has been provided towards the bus system, so 30 buses cost $ 1 .9m. The remainder of that $34m went to upgrading the rail system in Brisbane. I have no objection to the rail system in Brisbane being upgraded, but I do have objection to such a pitiful amount of money going to a service which carries far more passengers than the rail services. 
The report of the Metropolitan Transit Authority for 1976 referred to the capital works programs submitted for approval for 1977-78 which was the final year of the agreement under which we have been working to date. The items included 75 additional buses, the Toowong workshop, passenger waiting sheds, bus priority measures and two-way radios for buses. Some of those items had been submitted in an earlier year but were not approved. These items were submitted in 1977-78 according to the report of the Metropolitan Transit Authority. If we look further, beyond the report of the Metropolitan Transit Authority, we see that not all those items were approved even though they were submitted. The Commonwealth's contribution of $940,000 was approved towards the purchase of buses but this would not cover 75 buses. The other items were not approved. 
I mention this to round off the total theme that I have been developing that not as much money has been spent on the bus service as there should have been, especially when we relate this to the amount of money that has been spent on the rail service. I mention what has been approved for this year so that those people who are listening to this debate will not get the idea that perhaps I have been concealing something that happened this year which would have ruined the argument and the figures that I have already presented. 
In developing the argument that sufficient has not been spent on the bus service in Brisbane, in no way am I suggesting that the Metropolitan Transit Authority is not doing its job properly. If one has a look at the membership of the Metropolitan Transit Authority and examines their background, one can be assured that they are trying their best to put forward a program for Queensland which is acceptable and which will upgrade the transport system, especially the public transport system that we have in Brisbane. The  Chairman  is  Mr P.  I. Welding.  Mr Welding  has had extensive transport experience in the United Kingdom. The  Deputy Chairman  is  Mr L.  A. Hielscher who is the Under-Secretary of the Queensland Treasury. 
The other members are  Mr L.  W. Adam, who is the Sales Manager of Reckitt and Coleman Pty Ltd in Queensland.  Mr Adam  has what one would refer to as senior business knowledge and great marketing experience.  Mr Amies  is another member who is a chartered accountant and a company director. Some honourable senators know  Mr Amies'  previous military background. He also has a background, I believe, as a private bus operator.  Mrs Horner,  a business woman, represents the general public.  Mr Penhaligon,  the shire engineer of the Albert Shire Council, represents local government areas from the outskirts of Brisbane.  Mr Thorley,  the Brisbane Town  Clerk  and City Administrator, represents, of course, the Brisbane City Council. There is a wide area of responsibility amongst the members of the Metropolitan Transit Authority. I imagine that their wide backgrounds and ability make sure that projects put forward both for rail and for buses in Brisbane are examined thoroughly and are projects that will upgrade the system. 
I should like to conclude on that point by reiterating what I mentioned earlier this evening: There are two main transport systems in Brisbanebut and rail. The buses carry many more passengers than the railway but the bus system is receiving far less towards its operation in the way of capital grant than the rail system. As I said, I do not believe that there should be any reduction in the amount of money being put into rail systems in Brisbane but there should be a corresponding increase to the amount of capital that is being provided for the bus system. Until this is done the people of Brisbane will continue to pay for the deficit in the bus system through property rates- something that is not done in any other capital city in Australia. Until further capital is put into the bus system through the new Act that will come into operation after this Bill has passed through the Parliament, we will have a poor bus service in Brisbane. All I ask is that when this Bill becomes the Act, under the new agreement the Brisbane bus service gets a much better deal than is provided under the current Act. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
1 ) Did  Mr G.  Berkeley, in resigning from the Curriculum Development Centre, state that his position had become untenable, as reported in the Brisbane  Courier Mail,  4 March 1978. 
What was the text of  Mr Berkeley's  resignation. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 9 May 1978: 
1 ) When did Trans-Australia Airlines first occupy parking bays at the Commonwealth Government Centre, Brisbane. 
) Since TAA has occupied parking bays at the Commonwealth Government Centre, Brisbane, what have been the various rates of rental paid by TAA for the parking bays and for what particular period was that rental paid. 
3 ) To which Government Department is the rental paid. 
How is the rental for the parking bays determined. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 1 May 1978: 
What are the 'large tenders for sophisticated units' which are emerging' in the Department of Primary Industry referred to in the article 'New-generation typewriters outsmart the old electrics',  Financial Review,  1 May 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1978: 
Is there an upper age limit placed on applicants for positions within the Australian Public Service and other statutory bodies formed by the Commonwealth Government; if so, what is the age limit? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health by referring to a circular letter dated 6 June 1978, in which the Minister for Health stated that the Government had decided to amend the National Health Act to enable individual health insurance funds to apply for permission not to pay for certain items of medical service listed in the medical benefits schedule, for example, items relating to the termination of pregnancy. I ask the Minister: Will legislation to that effect come before the Senate before the winter recess? Also, will Medibank Private be among those health insurance funds that will not pay for medical costs associated with terminations of pregnancy? 
It was not my intention to enter this debate but I could not let go by some of the claims made by  Senator Kilgariff  without commenting on them. The question under discussion is whether we should have a tolerance in electorates of onefifth, or one-tenth as proposed in the amendment moved by  Senator Robertson.  In speaking to the Bill,  Senator Kilgariff  said that we should keep the tolerance at one-fifth. He used the usual argument about square miles or area. 1 think this argument is entirely fallacious. In a short time I shall try to point out why it is fallacious. 
If we look at a one-tenth variation situation and a one-fifth variation situation, we see that there is a vast difference between the two. Just for the purposes of illustration, let us take a quota of 1,000 voters. I realise that the quota is much more than that, but if we take the quota as 1,000 and we have a tolerance of one-fifth, we can have electorates containing only 800 voters. Alternatively we can have them containing up to 1,200 voters. So the electorate with the larger number of electors is 50 per cent greater in number of electors than the one with the smaller number- 800 to 1,200. If we have a 10 per cent tolerance and again the quota is 1 ,000 voters, the number of voters can be down to 900 or it can be up to 1,100. In this respect, the electorate with the larger number of electors has about 22 per cent more electors than the one with the smaller number. So even though we are speaking of a 10 per cent tolerance, the practical consideration is that we can end up with a range of 22 per cent. To be more precise, the electorate with the larger number of voters has 22 per cent more electors than the electorate with the smaller number of voters. But in the other case, the corresponding figure is 50 per cent, which I believe is too high. 
I am in total agreement with the idea that people in remote areas should have the same type of representation as people in smaller areas. I admit that I nominally live in a capital city. I say 'nominally' because I do not see it all that often. I think that  Senator Bonner  is agreeing with me. He has similar problems. However, I should think that being a senator, I would have a far greater idea of the types of deprivation that one encounters in country areas than would a person who was a member of the House of Representatives and who lived in a capital city because, after all, I travel a great deal of Queensland and I visit remote areas. So I shall be honest about it: I agree wholeheartedly with the idea that people in remote areas should receive the same sort of representation as people in city areas. But to be practical, we must understand that there can never be the same sort of representation in country areas as that enjoyed by people in city areas. People living in city areas have easy access to their member. They can go quite easily to the telephone at the corner of the street and ring him up. This sort of access is not available to people in remote areas, but we should try to do as much as we can to ensure that representation is of an equal kind. 
I have not seen the chart which has been incorporated in  Hansard,  but the statement was made earlier that the Australian Labor Party holds a predominance of the country electorates. I think that is irrelevant. It does not really matter whether they are held by the Australian Labor Party, the Liberal Party, the Country Party, the Liberal-Country Party or Independents. That is irrelevant. We are looking at the matter of representation for the people in those electorates. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting,  Senator Kilgariff  said something along the lines that we can achieve the type of equal representation about which we are speaking if the tolerance above and below the quota is 20 per cent. I believe that there are better ways of achieving this equal representation. I do not believe it can be achieved by putting in the legislature more members to represent people in remote areas. I believe that the way to achieve it is by following the course which we have started to adopt in the Federal Parliament, and that is to give more facilities to those people who represent people in remote areas. The senators from the Northern Territory are provided with some facilities which take into account the fact that they represent people in remote areas. For instance, the senators from the Northern Territory can claim as much as $6,000 a year for travel facilities, which could be either charter flights or other types of travel. A member of the House of Representatives whose electorate covers a certain area can claim up to $6,000 a year for similar charter facilities. If the area that a member of the House of Representatives represents is a little less, he can claim up to $4,000 a year. If the area represented is smaller still those charter facilities are not available, except in emergencies. These are the sorts of matters we should be looking at. 
Apart from having that facility available to them, I believe that the senators from the Northern Territory and the honourable member for the Northern Territory have facilities for overnight stays in the Territory. That facility is not available to honourable senators from the States and is not available to members of the House of Representatives who represent electorates which are smaller in area. These are the sorts of things at which we should be looking. We should be ensuring that facilities are available for the member to communicate with his electorate. We should also be looking at ways in which the electors can communicate with their representative. From time to time people in Queensland want to telephone me from areas outside the Brisbane metropolitan area. If I know the caller or that the call involves a genuine emergency I will accept a reverse charge telephone call. I am not sure whether that can be done in the Northern Territory, but it seems to me that it would be a reasonable way of ensuring that an elector in a remote area is as close to the office of the member who represents him as is the person who lives in the city. I do not think it is unusual to receive reverse charge telephone calls because such calls are even accepted by the Government now. Some honourable senators may remember that I asked the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  whether people in remote areas could call her Department in times of emergency by means of a reverse charge telephone call. She responded by saying that that was satisfactory, provided that a genuine emergency was involved. I have dealt only with charter flights, allowances for travelling around the electorate and telephone facilities. 
-If we use the types of facilities to which I have referred there will be no need to weight the legislature with additional members from remote areas to look after those people who live in remote areas. If we were to have additional members we would find that we would still have fairly large areas to be represented. To get around this problem regarding remote areas in which only small numbers of people reside, we could provide the facilities 1 have suggested. I think that in that way people would be well represented. I strongly urge that the Committee looks carefully at the amendment moved by  Senator Robertson  which seeks to leave out 'one-fifth' and insert 'one-tenth'. I believe that we can ensure that those people in remote areas have representation similar to people who live in city areas by providing adequate facilities for their members. 
I do not want to belabour this point but I think it is important. I have been informed that if the medical claim has on it  'Mr John  Smith, care of  Dr John  Brown', and  Dr John  Brown's address, the pay doctor' cheque then goes to  Dr John  Brown without having to go to the patient initially. If this is the case I think that the system is open to fraud. If the case is as the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  explained, that the cheque must first go to the patient who pays it to the doctor, then I think the whole system is less likely to be subjected to fraud. 
-Certainly it is much more cumbersome. 
-And it is much more costly than the present method. I think that this is an area that is well worth looking at, especially if we find that fraudulent practices develop along the lines I outlined. 
I ask a question in relation to clause 4 (c) of the Bill. Proposed new section (2B) states: 
. the continuity of that employment of the officer or employee shall be deemed not to be, or to have been, broken . . . 
This relates to long service leave. Is there a provision, or is there need for a provision, in relation to annual leave? I am thinking of a person who has just commenced employment. He may not have been employed long enough to qualify for any annual leave. He may have a break in service and have to start his period of employment again for the purposes of annual leave. In other words, is there a possibility that a person can lose some annual leave entitlement, however slight, because of the effect of this Bill? 
That was not the point I was raising. In relation to long service leave there is deemed not to have been any break in service. If a person has 8 years service he will continue to have 8 years service even though he may be stood down for, say, 2 days. But I am thinking of the case where a person has just started his or her employment and perhaps worked for a short time but not long enough to qualify for any annual leave. If such a person has a break- it may be for only a week or so- would he have to start qualifying again for recreation leave? It was this question I was asking: I was not talking about the recreation leave provisions in proposed new section (2C). 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 May 1 978: 
When will the booklets  Information for Widows  and  Preparing People for a Death in the Family  be available to the public? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 13 April 1978: 
Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to comments by  Mr Julian  Gardner, a member of the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission, reported in the Melbourne  Age,  4 April 1978, that 'The legal aid means test may soon be widened to allow thousands more people to get legal aid '; if so, will the Attorney-General give details of the Government 's proposals to widen the means test. 
I do not think that  Senator Georges'  question was answered. I wish to pose a similar question. It seems that bulk billing is being discontinued so that we will be able to control costs more effectively. For a start it has been shown, as far as I am aware, that the claims made by bulk billing were, in general, of a lesser amount than the amount of the claims made in a different way. That aside, there seems to me to be a very fertile area for fraudulent claims. This is the point that  Senator Georges  raised. At the moment, as far as I am aware, if a medical practitioner wants to bulk bill he fills in the items on the form and the patient signs the form after the service has been completed. Under the new system a person will be able to obtain a 'pay doctor' cheque by completing the normal form for Medibank- if he is insured with Medibank- or I imagine his health insurance fund. It seems to me that if a person wants to obtain a 'pay doctor' cheque all he has to do is sign that form. 
I cannot see that there are any provisions that he must actually see the bill. If a person signs a form and gives it to his medical practitioner or the medical practitioner's receptionist the rest of the form could be completed by someone other than the patient. The services itemised on the form could be different to those given to the patient. 
-I am talking about calculated fraud. I am sorry, I did not know that there was a different sort of fraud. I think the Minister can see the point I am driving at. There is a ferule area for fraudulent practice if a person sets out to defraud a health fund or the Government through Medibank Standard. This was the point that  Senator Georges  raised. I do not think that it has been adequately answered. 
I wish to ask one or two questions. The first deals with the matter raised by the Minister when she was replying to  Senator McLaren  in relation to the Bill having effect from the date on which it is proclaimed. I ask whether a date is envisaged for the introduction of the increased fee of $2.50 for prescriptions? Secondly, I ask whether the Government has given any consideration to the fact that fewer prescriptions may be filled under this scheme now that the cost will be $2.50. I noticed in the Minister's second reading speech a reference to the fact that the increase will effect a saving of $20m. Does that $20m saving take into account the fact that fewer prescriptions may be filled under the scheme because of the extra cost? 
The Senate is now debating the Public Service Arbitration Amendment Bill 1978. In the eyes of the Opposition this is very poor legislation. We are totally opposed to this Bill. We will not be moving amendments because we have total opposition to it. This legislation originated from the Government's defeat in the recent dispute within the Commonwealth Employment Service. The Government, having been a party to the dispute, now intends to change the rules so that the Government or the Public Service Board is always the winner. As an exercise in industrial relations the Bill is an abject failure. As an exercise in industrial anarchy the Bill is a total success. Ultimately this legislation will do great harm to industrial relations within the Public Service. 
I do not intend tonight to outline the background to the dispute that sparked off the introduction of this Bill because that was well canvassed in the second reading speech in this place, in the second reading speech of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and also in the speeches of Opposition members in the House of Representatives. I will, however, say something of a personal nature. I feel duty bound to do so. It is a pity that we had this dispute within the Commonwealth Employment Service. While the dispute was in progress it was fairly obvious that there was a lowering of morale within the Service. But, more importantly, within the public there was a feeling that all was not well within the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
I have always been a person who has stood up for the Commonwealth Employment Service and outlined how important the Service is and how important it is that the public should support it. I have said on a couple of occasions in this place that I have always gone to the CES when I have been looking for staff and I have always been happy with what has happened. In fact, once I was overwhelmed by the service given to me. I outlined that case here once before. I make a point of visiting the offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service in my travels throughout Queensland and I have found that the officers are not happy with the role they have to fulfil at present. At the moment, given the number of people unemployed and the staff numbers of the Service, the officers see their role as being simply to provide a place where people can register for employment. If employment is available those people obtain a job, but if employment is not available the officers of the CES see themselves virtually as providing an agency for the Department of Social Security. 
Those officers want to do much more that that. They want to be able to provide matching programs. They want to be able to do all the things which were mentioned in the Norgard report. They want to do that but they cannot at the present time. Hopefully with an increase in staff and a lowering of the number of people unemployed they will be able to get on with these tasks which they want to fulfil. That is why I was disappointed that this should happen with regard to the Commonwealth Employment Service. The Commonwealth Employment Service is a body which needs support from the public and a body which should expect support from the public. But during the course of this dispute the public probably looked at the situation and thought that all was not right with the Service. I mention that because whenever I am speaking on an issue which is associated in any way with the Commonwealth Employment Service I feel inclined to make my feelings known. I think that the Service still does not receive the support from the public that it really deserves. 
I return now to the Bill which we are discussing. The Bill will put the exclusive prerogative of the Public Service Board beyond doubt in matters of recruitment and promotion. It will subdue the voice of public servants in such matters by closing off the role of the Public Service Arbitrator, to whom Public Service employee organisations have previously had some recourse. That raises the question of this Government's belief in the due processes of law in arbitration. Because the traditional arbitration procedures did not bring about the decisions which suited the Government, the Government has decided to change the law. 
That rather reminds me of some of the events that occur quite often in Queensland. In 
Queensland when the law does not suit a particular case- even though the law might be morally correct- one does not have to accept the law; one just changes it. This happened recently when two members of the Queensland Parliament found that they were really not entitled to take their seats in the Parliament because of technicalities within the law. There was not much worry when the first member found that this was so because his was a seat which would be very difficult for the Australian Labor Party to win. But when the second case arose and it concerned a somewhat marginal seat there was quite a bit of disquiet. The Queensland Government talked about holding a by-election in respect of the first case, but it suddenly changed its mind when it found that there was a second case. So it just changed the legislation to make sure that these people could take their places in the Parliament. 
This reminds me of the situation that has just occurred in Queensland. The union, in this case, went to arbitration. A decision was made by the arbitrator. After taking legal advice the union was of the opinion that the decision was incorrect. No strike was called, but the union took the matter to the High Court which subsequently upheld the union's point of view that the right of appeal was a fundamental condition of employment. The court gave sound judicial reasons for upholding the appeal. The High Court said that the right of appeal was a fundamental condition of employment, particularly in the Public Service where a wide range of job opportunities existed and a wide range of qualifications are desired for those various positions. 
It must be remembered, although I mentioned earlier that a dispute within the Commonwealth Employment Service sparked off this Bill- I spoke for a short time about the CES- that this Bill is not confined to that organisation. It embraces the Public Service as a whole. I was somewhat amazed when I read the stand down provisions of the Bill. The stand down provisions seem to me to be typical of this Government's attitude towards workers within the Public Service. I do not think stand down provisions will ever be accepted by the industrial movement. The industrial movement will probably endure these provisions because they are there. The stand down provisions are quite broad. They are so broad that, from reading the Bill, there does not have to be any outward sign that people cannot be employed properly before being stood down. If there is some thought that that will happen people can be stood down. 
It seems strange to me that associated with the stand down provisions is a means by which those people who are stood down can be penalised with regard to their sick leave, annual leave and long service leave. If that sort of thing is to happen a vast administrative problem will occur in making sure that the provisions of the Bill are carried out correctly. In determining leave credits, a divisor of 26 1 will be used for a person who works a five-day week and in any other case a divisor of 3 13 will be used. It seems to me that if this provision is ever used- I hope it is not- it will create a lot of administrative problems. One wonders if it will be worth while. Those who are stood down will be penalised by way of sick leave, annual leave and long service leave to the extent of the number of days that they are stood down. Thankfully, the period that they are stood down will not be lost to them in calculating the provision for long service leave. Perhaps we can have a look at this provision when we are debating the Bill in detail. I conclude by again mentioning that the Opposition totally opposes this Bill. We do not believe that the Bill can be righted by amendments. We are not suggesting any amendments. We totally oppose the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
What are the 'large tenders for sophisticated units' which are emerging' in the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet referred to in the article 'New-generation typewriters outsmart the old electrics 'in the  Financial Review,  1 May 1978. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 February 1 978: 
On what date in 1977 were review forms forwarded for family allowance for students, in each State and Territory, continuing their studies in 1 978. 
On what date were 1977 family allowance payments for these students terminated pending receipt of completed review forms. 
Does the Department of Social Security intend to send review forms earlier in future so that payment of family allowance for students will be continuous. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
What is the text of the circular which was recently issued by the Department of Social Security in relation to reverse charge telephone calls from clients in remote areas. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 March 1 978: 
Has there been any alteration to the text of the instruction given to staff of the Depanment of Social Security in relation to applications for unemployment benefit from persons who are voluntarily unemployed and from persons whose unemployment is due to misconduct since the answer was provided to Question No. 1675 (Senate  Hansard  1977, pages 498-9); if so, what alteration has been made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
Are aircraft passenger lists provided to State Special Branches, as claimed in the  Australian,  30 March 1978; if so: (a) what are the details; and (b) under what legislation are airlines enabled to provide passenger lists to outside organisations such as State Special Branches. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 9 May 1978: 
1 ) How many petitions have been received by the Minister seeking that the award of Long Service and Good Conduct Medals be resumed for members of the Citizen Forces. 
Has the Minister given consideration to the matters raised in these petitions; if so, what decision has he reached in relation to the requests in the petitions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 9 May 1978: 
What premiums have been received and what claim payments have been made under the Defence Service Homes Insurance Scheme for each State and Territory for each year since 1956. 
) What has been the rank order of States and Territories in relation to the ratio of claim payments to premium payments, for each State and Territory for each year since 1956. 
Is there any other regional basis other than State and Territory, for which statistics are available for the amount of premium paid and claim payments made under the Defence Service Homes Insurance Scheme; if so (a) what are those regions and (b) what are the details for those regions when the Questions in ( 1 ) and (2) are applied to those regions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 9 May 1977: 
1 ) With reference to the Minister's reply to Question No. 67 answered on 8 May 1978, how was it possible for the $2 per passenger charge at Proserpine Airport, Queensland, to be introduced on 29 October 1977 when approval was not given until 23 February 1978 in reply to an application on 16 November 1977 that the charge be operative as from 19 September 1977. 
Is it possible, as suggested by the dates in (1) for a Council owner and operator of an airport to: (a) charge a passenger fee and then have it approved at a later date; ( b) charge a passenger fee and, at a later date, apply for permission to charge that fee; and (c) apply for permission to charge a fee which has already been introduced at a date earlier than its introduction; if so, what is the point of making councils apply for permission to charge a fee; if not, what happened in the case of Proserpine Airport. 
If Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia first showed the $2 in their fare schedules associated with timetables commencing 30 October 1977 as outlined in the answer to Question No. 67, how were they able to do so before approval was given. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice, on 26  May  1978: 
Have any applications been made by the Department of Social Security in Queensland for additional staff since 1 January 1978; if so, what additional staff were requested and how many additional staff were appointed. 
asked the Minister represent  ing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 21 February 1978: 
Is a formula, based on population and total projected cost, used to determine whether television broadcasting facilities are provided in remote areas of Australia; if so, what is the formula; if not, what method is used. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 10 April 1978: 
Are there any plans to close the Post Office at Wamuran, Queensland; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1978: 
Have investigations been made into the provision of television facilities to service the area around The Monument and Dajarra in North West Queensland; if so, what are the results of the investigations; if not, will the Minister ask that investigations be made and advise on the outcome. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1 978: 
What is the percentage of telephone subscribers with access to International Subscriber Dialling in (a) each capital city; (b) Darwin; (c) each State and Territory; and (d) Australia. 
How many telephones are connected to ISD in (a) each capital city; (b) Darwin; (c) each State and Territory; and (d) Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
1 ) When did the post office open at The Monument, Queensland. 
Were any special postmarkers used at The Monument post office on that occasion; if so, what were they, and how many articles were cancelled with each. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
Are Ethnic Liaison Officers to be appointed in Government Departments to give attention to matters affecting migrants; if so: 
to which Government Departments will they be appointed; 
b ) how will selection of these officers be made; and 
when will the appointments be made. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 1 May 1978: 
What are the 'large tenders for sophisticated units' which are 'emerging' in the Bureau of Census and Statistics referred to in the article 'New generation typewriters outsmart the old electrics ', the  Financial Review,  1 May 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
1 ) How many members of the Army Reserve were recruited in each year from 1970 to 1977. 
How many Army Reserve members who were recruited in each year from 1970 to 1975 left: (a) within two years; and (b) at the end of two years. 
-! wish to mention something which my  Deputy  Leader,  Senator Button,  mentioned earlier this evening. I am afraid that his latin was lost on me because it is too long since I studied latin at secondary school. I made a submission to the committee. My submission simply said that I would like the comments that I made during the debate on the issue which was held previously to be taken into account. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
1 ) Did HMAS  Swan,  HMAS  Yarra.  and the submarine HMAS  Otway  visit Brisbane on Friday 19 May 1978; if so, (a) what was the length of the visit of these vessels; and (b) were any crew members accommodated off the vessels at public expense during the visit; if so, (i) how many members were involved; (ii) where were they accommodated; and (iii) what was the cost of accommodation. 
Did any other Australian naval vessel visit Brisbane during the same period; if so, what are the details if questions ( 1 ) (a), ( 1 ) (b) (i), (ii) and (iii) are applied to (2). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 29 May 1 978: 
1 ) Why will the stamp pack of the Australian trees issue of stamps not be issued on the first day of issue of the individual stamps (1 June 1978). 
When will the stamp pack be issued. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) How many copies  of Stamp Preview No. 4. 1978  were mailed to addresses: (a) within Australia; and (b) overseas. 
Were any paid advertisements included with copies of this issue of  Stamp Preview  mailed: (a) within Australia; or (b) overseas; if so, what are the details of this advertisement, or these advertisements, including the number distributed, the cost to Australia Post of printing and distribution and the amount received by Australia Post for distributing the advertisement or advertisements. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 6 June 1978: 
Was the Queensland Board of Advanced Education faced with considerable difficulties during 1977 in obtaining prompt payment of its entitlement under the States Grants legislation to meet operating and capital commitments of colleges, as claimed in the Board's annual report of 1977; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 6 June 1978: 
Was the period preceding the establishment of the Tertiary Education Commission and its three associated Councils characterised by a high degree of uncertainty as the outgoing Commissions tended to fulfil caretaker roles, as claimed in the 1 977 Annual Report of the Queensland Board of Advanced Education; if so, why did this occur; if not, what occurred to suggest to the Board that such uncertainty existed. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 6 June 1978: 
1 ) Why did the Tertiary Education Commission not consult with the Queensland Board of Advanced Education, as stated in the Board's 1977 Annual Report, on the Board's request for approval in 1978 of seventeen new courses. 
Were nine ofthe requested seventeen new courses approved; if so: (a) which courses were approved, (b) what were the reasons for not approving the remaining eight courses, and (c) were the reasons for non-approval conveyed to the Queensland Board of Advanced Education; if so, when. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 6 June 1978: 
Did the Queensland Board of Advanced Education make known its views to the Commonwealth Government, prior to the publication of the Board 's 1 977 annual report, of the implied criticism in that report of the 'relatively long delay in establishing the new bodies (the Tertiary Education Commission and its three associated councils) after public announcement of the Government's intentions'; if so, what was the Commonwealth Government's response; if not, does the Commonwealth Government now intend to respond to the Board 's comment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
1 ) How many prescriptions were issued under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme in each year from 1950 to 1977. 
2 ) What were the reasons for the increases or decreases in the prescriptions from one year to the next. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. When a single age pensioner dies, is the amount of pension owing to the pensioner until the date of his or her death payable to either the next of kin or the pensioner's estate? If not, in the case of a pensioner in a nursing home, is the next of kin expected to pay any nursing home fees that remain unpaid due to the non-payment of the age pension? 
The contribution that I make to this debate will be rather brief. As was the case with my colleague  Senator Wheeldon  who spoke earlier in the debate, the matter which I wish to raise could I suppose more appropriately be raised in the adjournment debate. I raise it in this debate for the same reasons as  Senator Wheeldon  made his comments in this debate. The Minister who represents the area about which I am about to speak is not in the chamber but I believe that my comments will be made known either to him or to the relevant Minister in the House of Representatives and that I will be provided at an early date with a reply to the questions that I shall pose. 
It has been brought to my notice that a section of Telecom Australia employees in Queensland- the section is called the Primary Works Section- has been requested to work what I consider to be excessive overtime. If they work the overtime as requested their working week will be a six-day week of 12 hours a day. This means that they will be working 72 hours a week, or about twice their normal working hours. The work they will be doing concerns a coaxial cable to link Brisbane and Toowoomba. Why they will have to work this excessive overtime I am not sure. Why the project has to be completed in such a rush that overtime will have to be worked, again I am not sure. If the facts as I have stated them are correct, as indeed I believe they are, they raise the question of why additional staff could not have been employed for the task. 
Unemployment in Queensland, as in every State of Australia, is unacceptably high. It would seem to me that if work is available which would allow some people to work 72 hours a week, it should be spread over more employees so that more work can be made available for more people. Further, my a'dvice is that staff numbers in this section have been reduced over the past 1 8 months because of a diminishing work load. If this is so and if the facts are correct with regard to the coaxial cable work between Brisbane and Toowoomba requiring 72 hours work a week, this staff reduction seems to indicate a lack of foresight and a lack of planning. The questions I would like to pose to the Minister who is responsible for Telecom are these: Firstly, are the facts as I stated correct? I believe that they are, but I think that I should ask the Minister that question. Secondly, why was there a need to incur such excessive overtime? Thirdly, why was additional staff not used instead of incurring the overtime that I have described? Fourthly, why has staff been reduced over the. past 18 months when such overtime is now found to be necessary? Fifthly, can anything be done about the situation at this stage? In other words, can the overtime requirement for these people be reduced and can additional staff be put on to the work that has to be carried out? They are the only statements and comments that I want to bring forward in this debate. I am sure that they will be passed on to the relevant Minister. 
I do not have much more to add to this debate. I rose to speak on this matter last night just before the adjournment and therefore did not have time to complete my remarks. The principal reason why I rose was to point out to my  Deputy  Leader that I was one of the people who made a submission to the Privileges Committee. My submission was rather brief. In it I referred the Committee to the remarks that I made in the debate on this matter earlier this year. My colleague  Senator Georges  last night made the point that there was not much point in adding to what had already been said in the debate on the matter. This was one of the reasons why he did not make a submission. I held a similar view and just referred the remarks that I had made to the Committee. I am sure the Committee looked at them and considered them when it was deliberating on this matter. 
The only other point I wish to raise in this debate is something that was also raised earlier last night by, I think,  Senator McLaren.  I reinforce the remarks that he made about the admission tags that are given to guests. Some of them have a notice on them stating that the holders are not to be admitted to the Parliamentary Refreshment Rooms or that they are not valid for Parliamentary Refreshment Rooms. This is something that should be looked at. An example of this occurred last night when my wife and other people were guests here. My wife was given an idenification card to wear which stated that she was not to be admitted to the Parliamentary Refreshment Rooms. Of course she was admitted. But I think it is a strange notation to be made on the identification given to guests who come to this place. Any further remarks that I could make about the report would be traversing again the same arguments that I made when we originally debated this question and therefore would be redundant. So with those few remarks I conclude my contribution to this debate. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 March 1978: 
1 ) To which part of the Social Services Act 1947 was the Minister referring when she said (Senate  Hansard, 22  February 1978, page 20) that 'the Social Services Act specifically provides that family allowance payments cease from the end ofthe four-weekly payment period in which the full-time education ceases'. 
What is the wording of the part of the Social Services Act on which the Minister based her statement. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 June 1978: 
What is the text of the instructions which are issued to officers of the Department of Social Security in relation to determining whether or not a woman in receipt of a supporting parent's benefit or widow's pension is living with a man in a bona fide domestic relationship. 
I  present the following petition from 866 citizens of" Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth- 
That we are totally opposed to any reduction to the Family Allowance now being paid to parents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will request the Government to maintain the Family Allowance in its present form. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Before I make my contribution to the Budget debate I would like to congratulate you,  Mr President,  on your re-election to your high office. I said some two and a half years ago when I first did this that I looked forward to the day when I saw again in the Senate a  President  from the Australian Labor Party. I think you would understand that I could say that without any ill feeling towards you. I still look forward to that day with optimism, but in the meantime equally look forward to serving under your presidency. 
In those two and a half years it has been only rarely that you have had to call me to order during a debate. That is somewhat remarkable, because you had to call me to order during my maiden speech. On that subject, I would like to extend my congratulations to my two colleagues who made their maiden speeches this evening. I am sure that the contributions made by Senators Tate and Evans are evidence of the fact that we will hear significant contributions from them in the debates of this Senate. I again congratulate them and I wish them well. 
I now tum to some comments about the Budget itself. As Australians listened to the Budget Speech when it was being broadcast, as they read about it in the newspapers the following day and realised in the days that followed the significance of what the Budget meant for them, they were reminded of  Mr Fraser's  oft quoted statement that life was not meant to be easy. They saw the Budget for what it is: It is dishonest; it is brutal; it is a Budget of broken promises. I would like to examine how a worker on $200 a week would view the Budget when looking at it, after having read about it clearly. He would say to himself: 'Well, I am going to pay $1,80 extra a week for petrol'. He would say: 'I am going to pay $2 a week more for my cigarettes'. He might say: 'I have to give up smoking'. He will see that eventually he will have to pay $1.50 a week extra for clothing and footwear. 
If he is buying his own home and it is his first home, he will realise that he will virtually be paying an extra $3.50 a week because he will have lost his mortgage repayments as a taxation deduction. His increased tax will cost him about $3.20 a week. When he gets around to adding all that up, he will find that it will cost him a total of $12 a week. Granted, that $12 a week will be offset to some extent. There will be a reduction of about $2 a week for his health insurance, but I wonder whether this will be a short-lived reduction. When we view the arrangements that have been made for Medibank and for health insurance and how they have been changed in the last three years, with all these changes we sometimes wonder what will happen next year. Hopefully, this $2 a week reduction will stay but I think that the worker might have some misgivings about that. 
As the worker delved more deeply into the Budget, certainly until a couple of days ago, he would have thought that his wife's family allowance could have been reduced because some of his children earn money through part time work. Over recent days, statements have been made here in the Senate by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and statements have been made in the House of Representatives that some changes will be made in the means test for children's earnings in relation to the family allowance. Until this happens, until a clear statement is made, he will have some misgivings in this area too. He will have a look at his parents ' income- I am speaking about a worker earning $200 a week and I am viewing what the Budget means to him- and he will find that they will have a reduction in their living standards. Their age pension in future will be indexed yearly in contrast to the twice yearly indexation policy so vigorously championed by the Minister for Social Security. And so it goes on. 
He looks further to other aspects which may not concern him but which might concern some of his friends or relatives. He finds that maternity allowances have been eliminated. He is quite interested in the fact that these allowances are going to be eliminated so he obtains a copy of the Budget to see why this is so. He sees that the explanation is as follows: 
The Government believes that maternity allowances have been superseded by health care and family allowance arrangements and has therefore decided to abolish this benefit for births occurring after 3 1 October 1978. 
I wonder how anyone expects to be able to obtain from the health care arrangements that we have all the items that are needed after a birth in a family. Surely the family allowance arrangements that we had were to provide for something far different from the actual birth because we had maternity allowances for so long. But the health care arrangements too are going to be changed. So I wonder whether the explanation given in the Budget still holds. 
The prospects of higher unemployment too are worrying this worker who looks at the consequences of the Budget. He sees greater prospects of unemployment making life difficult for him as the breadwinner of a family, and for his children too as they approach the time to leave school. When he looks at all these factors and at some other factors in the Budget which I shall mention at a later stage he sits and ponders and says to himself: 'Where was all this in  Mr Fraser  's election policy speech, made just under eight short months ago? ' He realises, like many other people in the community, that these things were not in the election policy speech of the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser. I dare to say that if they had been  Mr Fraser  would not be in the position he is in now and it is possible that we could have had a different government. 
I would like to examine some of the broken promises. I mentioned earlier that this was a Budget of broken promises, so let us look at a few of them. I shall not mention them in detail because of the limitation of time on speeches in this Senate. Let us look at pensions for a start. On 5 April last year  Mr Fraser  made the statement that there would not be a means test for pensioners over the age of 70 years. I shall quote some of the statements made in an article in the  Australian.  It states: 
The Federal Government will continue to exempt pensioners over 70 from any means test. 
Announcing this yesterday, the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  ended speculation on the reintroduction of a means test for all pensioners in the August Budget. 
The article continued: 
During an hour-long session with announcer Vincent Smith,  Mr Fraser  said he was disturbed at speculation that a pre-Budget examination of welfare spending would mean an end to means-test exemption for pensioners over 70. 
The article went on and quoted  Mr Fraser  as having said: 
I don't think we can really get back to the situation where the pension is means-tested over 70. I think it would be difficult. 
This was last year- in 1977. In 1978 it is obvious that  Mr Fraser  has found a way to do this. The Budget states that in future pension increases for persons aged over 70 years will be subject to an income test. I think that this is the thin edge of the wedge. It seems to me that pensioners of that age will no longer be receiving any increases and that as time goes on the pension they have will lose considerable value in comparison with the full pensions that are paid to people who are not subject to the income test for pensions.  Mr President,  it seems that I am destined to speak at times when we are going to be interrupted by the putting of the motion for the adjournment. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
Has the Commonwealth provided funds to the Queensland Government for Brisbane City Council transport. 
Has the Queensland Government failed to deliver a total of $2 1,080,000 to the Brisbane City Council, as claimed by the Queensland Secretary of the Australian Tramway and Motor Omnibus Employees' Association,  Mr A.  J. McHenry (Brisbane  Courier Mail,  28 March 1978). 
If so: (a) what are the details; and (b) what efforts are currently being made by the Federal Government to ensure that the Queensland Government hands over the funds concerned to the Brisbane City Council. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development or it may more appropriately be addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the Budget statement: 
An amount of $20m has been provided for home savings grants in 1978-79; it is expected that this will result in waiting periods of up to nine months before grants are paid. 
Were young people who had saved in order to qualify for a home savings grant entitled to believe that funds would be available when they qualified for the grant? If so, was the reduction in the amount allocated for home savings grants deliberately effected so that the Government could renege on its obligations under the Home Savings Grant Act? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 6 June 1978: 
1 ) Why was the agency of the Commonwealth Employment Service at Winton discontinued. 
Has there been an investigation since 30 April 1977 to determine whether an agency of the Commonwealth Employment Service will be re-established at Winton. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) In which cities or towns were the additional staff, indicated in the Minister's answer to Question 501  (Hansard,  9-10 June 1978, page 2825), provided to the Department of Social Security in Queensland. 
How many staff were provided in each of those cities or towns. 
What were the positions to which the staff were appointed in each city or town. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
What is the established strength of the crew of HMAS  Otway  in terms of (a) officers; (b) senior sailors, and (c) junior sailors. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
How much reinsurance has been received by each State under the reinsurance cover of the Defence Service Homes Insurance Scheme in each year since reinsurance cover had been taken out. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) In what years since 19S6 has there been an excess of payments over premiums paid in Queensland under the Defence Service Homes Insurance Scheme. 
What major event or events contributed to the loss in these years and which were the principle cities and towns affected. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
Was a control group used in a survey evaluating the success of an education program in its first six months, which, according to the Minister's statement in the  Australian,  18 August 1 978 'indicated that about 38 per cent of respondents had succeeded in gaining employment'; if so, what are the relevant details of the control group. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic 
Affairs, upon notice, on 24 August 1 978: . Has the 
Government noted the comments by Papua New Guinea 's former Governor-General,  Sir John  Guise, concerning blackbirding'; if so, have any investigations been carried out concerning the allegation that illegal immigrants from Papua New Guinea are entering Australia in search of better pay and conditions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Does the Commonwealth Accommodation and Catering Services Limited operate any duty free shops in Brisbane; if so: (a) which shops; and (b) does Commonwealth Accommodation and Catering Services Limited have a policy of preference towards Australian goods. 
Was Commonwealth Accommodation and Catering Services Ltd known by another name; if so, what name. 
Who are the current Directors of Commonwealth Accommodation and Catering Services Ltd. 
-I present the following petition from 42 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the latest Fraser Budget will severely contract the Australian Economy, reducing employment and the standard of living of Australian workers. 
That increases in taxation and the abolition of taxation concessions will boost the cost of living for the average Australian worker by some $ 1 2 a week. The average Australian earning $200 a week will be forced to meet the following additional costs from the weekly pay packet: $1.80 for petrol $2.00 for cigarettes and drink $ 1 .50 for clothing and footwear $3.50 for mortgage repayments $3.20 for the income tax surcharge 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate will request the Fraser Government to abandon its present restrictive economic policies in favour of the expansionary alternative Budget outlined to the House of Representatives by Opposition Leader Bill Hayden on August 22, as this alternative Budget would reduce the cost of living, boost employment and generate strong economic growth. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Television Transmission in Northern Tasmania 
-Can the Minister for Social Security advise the Senate whether in Queensland last year family allowance was paid for school leavers up to 27 December? Was an instruction given to Queensland staff this year that payments should have been terminated on 29 November and that recovery procedures should commence? Is it usual for recovery procedures to be insitituted for relatively minor amounts when the Department is at fault? 
-In case listeners to this broadcast wonder why I do not speak for my full allotted 30 minutes, I point out that I expended about 12 minutes of my time in speaking in this Budget debate on 23 August. At that time I spoke about the Government's promises on pensions and the performance that had followed those promises. I outlined what the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  had said in various statements about pensions and especially about pensions for people aged 70 years and over. He virtually stated that those people would not be subject to a means test. Of course we now have a type of means test under which, as I pointed out three weeks ago, certain pensioners who are aged 70 years and over will not receive the increases that other pensioners will receive in November. 
When my speech was interrupted to commence the adjournment debate on 23 August. I was about to refer to a promise made by the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  in the last election campaign. A Liberal Party advertisement of December last year reported  Senator Guilfoyle  as saying: 
We believed it was important to take politics out of pensions and that's why we altered the legislation ... we said that when we came into Government we would have an automatic increase. We've done that and whilst the Act remains as it is there is, every six months, an automatic increase to take account of the cost of living. I've had lots of people say to me 'You've given us dignity because you don't argue about our rises every six months '. 
That is what the Minister was reported to have said in a Liberal Party election advertisement last December. But of course politics has now been brought back into pensions. The legislation is destined to be altered. It will be altered so that pensions will not be increased, every six months, and a type of means test will be placed upon pensioners aged 70 years and over. So, promises that were given to us by many spokespeople on the Government benches have not been carried out. The promises have not been backed by performance. In fact, the promises have been broken. The dignity about which  Senator Guilfoyle  spoke in that advertisement has now been dashed away. 
I mention also Medibank.  Mr Fraser,  in his policy speech on 27 November 1975, said quite clearly: 'We will maintain Medibank'. The statement was clear and precise. But now Medibank has all but disappeared. I would like to mention as well some other statements by spokespersons on the Government benches.  Mr Fraser,  in 1976, on the program  A Current A Affair  said: 
We are committed to maintaining Medibank and we are going to do so. 
In his policy speech in 1977  Mr Fraser  said: 
The Medibank reforms give Australians choice in health insurance. 
As late as March this year the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  was asked this question: 
Will the present basic concept of Medibank remain? Will Standard Medibank continue plus Medibank Private competing with the private funds? 

 Mr Hunt replied: 
Oh, I would think so. I  wouldn  't have any reason to recommend otherwise. That isn't in anybody's mind. 
That statement was made in March this year. Now, after the muddling with Medibank and the cutting of Medibank to ribbons, the Government, whilst at all stages posturing as Medibank 's champion, finally has dealt a fatal blow to one ofthe greatest social advances in this decade. 
It is incumbent upon anyone looking at the Budget Speech to consider the problem of income tax, the problem that was introduced in this Budget. Again let us look at some of the statements which were made in previous years.  Mr Fraser,  in his policy speech in 1975, said: 'We will reduce the tax burden'. Then, in his 1977 policy speech, he boasted of a reduced burden of taxation. Naturally at that time no mention was made of the increased 'hidden' tax- hidden in that it was a compulsory Medibank levy or a compulsory payment for health insurance. Yet  Mr Fraser  said in 1977: 'Our personal tax reforms are essential for economic recovery'. Although tax reforms are essential to economic recovery,  Mr Fraser,  in 1978, increased the income tax rates by  Vi  per cent. It was a most strange procedure. At one stage  Mr Fraser  was saying that tax reforms were essential; later he increased the tax rate. Perhaps this was the reform of which he was speaking. 
I would like to quote from an article which appeared in the edition of the  Taxpayer  issued on 29 August 1978. The article sets out very clearly the conflict that seems to have arisen between previous statements made by the Prime Minister and what has happened. Under the heading 'Lower taxes were good for us: Why not now?' the article states: 
Back when voters were being wooed, back in 1975 and again in 1977, there were promises of tax reductions which came, and then went. Under the revised personal tax scales, most taxpayers are back to 'square one'. 
If during an election, the best economic advice is to restore incentive and give businesses and people the wherewithal to get the economy moving, is the position so different now? Reminds me of the economics student who went to his tutor, surprised that the exam questions were the same as last year- only to be told 'Ah yes! But this year the ANSWERS are different! ' 
That is what the article stated concerning the about-face on tax increases. Whilst the income tax rates themselves have been increased by 1  Vi  per cent, the actual increase in tax paid is far in excess of  Vh  per cent. From tables that I have here it seems that the average increase is somewhere in the high 3 per cent to low 5 per cent area. 1 seek leave to have  incorporated  in 

 Hansard four tables which show the actual increases in tax paid because of the increase in the tax rate. I have shown these tables to the Minister and he has agreed to their incorporation subject to the will of the Senate. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="078232197809135_18_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="078232197809135_18_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="078232197809135_19_2.jpg"></graphic>

-If one examines Table 1, which relates to situations where there are no dependants, one will see that on an income of $4,000 a year the actual increase in taxation which will be payable because of the increased income tax rates is 4.69 per cent. One can see in that table the increased taxation rates applying to incomes up to $40,000, where the increased taxation payable is 3.43 per cent. Incredibly, Table 2 shows that a person on $6,000 a year with a wholly dependent wife will have his tax increased by 40 per cent. To say that the taxation rates are increased by 1.5 per cent does not show the full picture. One should really look at the actual tax increase itself and the percentage it represents which is extra and payable. Table 3 shows increases ranging from 12 per cent to 3 per cent. The higher the level of income the lower the increase in tax as a percentage. The other table shows increases ranging from 3 per cent to 34 per cent. These tables are worth studying. They show that the tax increase is more than 1.5 per cent. Certainly, the rates have been increased by that but the actual tax payable is more. The Treasurer when he was speaking about the tax rates said that for the Government the decision was a severe disappointment. Whether or not it was a severe disappointment for the Government to have to increase tax rates, the decision was certainly a disappointment to the taxpayers of Australia, especially in light of the promises that were made in previous years.  Mr Deputy President,  it would be only too easy to document further promises that were broken by this Budget but let us look back to 1975 and recall what  Mr Fraser  said in relation to employment. He said: 
Only under a Liberal-National Country Party government will there be jobs for all who want to work. 
As we all know, unemployment has increased since and has shown no signs of abating. We might also remember that rather prophetically in the same speech in 1975,  Mr Fraser  said: 
There will be no more jobs for the boys. 
How right he was. Not only are there no jobs for the boys; there are also no jobs for the girls. I would like to look at the situation which prevails in Queensland. I look at the latest employment statistics, those for the end of August 1978. 1 look at these statistics because Queensland is the State I represent. The employment statistics for August- I have chosen August because that is the latest period for which figures are available; they were made available last Friday- show that in every employment district in Queensland except one there has been an increase in the number of unemployed since August 1977. It is not much use nowadays looking at the employment figures for one month, say August this year and comparing them with those of the previous month, July, this year. One must really compare a month from the previous year with the same month for this year, because there are no seasonally adjusted figures available. That is why I have compared August 1977 with August 1978. To save reading all the figures in this table that I prepared using these statistics I seek leave also to incorporate this table which is entitled 'Unemployed in Queensland- August 1977 and August 1978'. I have similarly shown this table to the Minister. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="078232197809135_20_4.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Senate. One can see from this table that there are a number of employment districts in Queensland. They are listed in this table. First of all are detailed the non-metropolitan districts in alphabetical order from Atherton to Warwick. In all of these nonmetropolitan districts bar one in that 12-month period there has been an increase in the number of unemployed. One can see from glancing at the table that one of the areas with the highest increases is Ayr where there has been a 76 per cent increase in unemployed, from 459 to 808. A number of other high increases are shown in this table. There are two areas with marginal increases. Mermaid Beach and Mt Isa both had an increase of one per cent. The Mt Isa figure is not surprising because if one becomes unemployed in Mt Isa one is inclined to leave the area. There is only one employment district which had a decrease during this period and that is Gympie which had a decrease of about one per cent. The unemployment figure there for August 1977 was 702 and in August 1978 it had decreased to 692- a decrease of ten. If we have a look at the figures for metropolitan Brisbane we will see that in the last 12 months there has been an increase there; an increase of 20 per cent. If we look at Queensland as a whole we see that over those 12 months there has been an increase of 22 per cent in the number of unemployed so there has not been an improvement in the employment situation. The figures that are available show quite clearly that the promise that we were given in 1975, that there would be an increase in the employment prospects for youngsters and people who were unemployed, has not been fulfilled. 
I doubt whether this Budget's strategy is the type of strategy that will alleviate this situation. I become quite disturbed when I look at the figures for unemployed people throughout my own State and throughout the Commonwealth. Too often we tend to think of these figures as just statistics. We tend to look at percentages only. We tend not to think that behind every one of these figures there is a person who is unemployed. Breadwinners and people who do not know from where the money will come for next week's groceries are often unemployed. This is why we should have a clear look at the figures to understand what is behind them. The social implications of the unemployment that we have now are frightening, not only for young people who have been preparing to enter the work force for many years only to find that they cannot obtain work but also for the people who have families to support. It is important that we tackle this problem as quickly and as effectively as we can.  Mr Deputy President,  as I pointed out earlier I am not able to speak today for a full 30 minutes. With my time almost finished, I reiterate that I consider this to be a brutal Budget, and a dishonest Budget and I am convinced that it is a Budget which will become a significant nail in the coffin of the Fraser Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Does Trans-Australia Airlines have any plans to withdraw any port of call on the Mt Isa to Townsville route. 
-This afternoon we are debating the motion for the first reading of the Pig Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill 1978. 1 think it is worth while occasionally for a speaker to mention why the speeches do not appear to be relevant to the purpose of that Bill. Many people who follow the proceedings of this Senate are sometimes a little bemused to hear or to read the types of comments that are made on certain Bills when we are speaking in a first reading debate. I point out that Standing Order 1 90 states: 
In Bills which the Senate may not amend, the Question That this Bill be now read a First' time may be debated, and in such debate matters both relevant and not relevant to the subject-matter of the Bill may be discussed. 
Of course we use that Standing Order so that we may raise matters in the Senate which we think are important and need to be aired in the Parliament. Therefore we use it as a device for the good purpose of debate in the Senate. As my Whip pointed out a couple of days ago, for the first time in his memory he did hear on the first reading of a money Bill debate on the subject matter relevant to the Bill. Of course what I have to say this afternoon will not be relevant to the Bill. I am using the device which is provided to us by Standing Order 190. 
I feel compelled to comment on some remarks made by  Senator Bonner.  I regret that he is not in the chamber. I realise that he had to leave the chamber to attend to important business, but I regret that he is not present because I intend to be somewhat critical of his opening remarks. In his opening remarks he said that he supported the Budget, and he was very plain and clear on this. I thought that  Senator Bonner  had some compassion for his fellow Australians. Unfortunately, I must have been mistaken, because this is a dishonest Budget, a deceitful Budget and a brutal Budget. Anyone with some compassion for his fellow Australians would not find it possible to endorse it. 
I also mention something about the comments  Senator Bonner  made in regard to sport, not because I disagree with him but because I think there is room for debate on this whole matter of Australian amateur sport. I will not open up the whole debate this afternoon, but I will mention just a couple of matters.  Senator Bonner  said that our athletes could have come home from Canada with many more gold medals. If they had it would have been quite commendable. I wonder whether this is really of the utmost importance in amateur sport in Australia. Should we be looking for such excellence so that our athletes can go to the Commonwealth Games and come back with gold medals and perhaps some silver and bronze medals and do the same when they go to the Olympic Games in a couple of years time? If our athletes do win medals I think that is fine, but I wonder whether it is not more important to make sure that the bulk of the population of Australia does participate in some formal recreational program. If Australians do this and if they do it extensively it would be inevitable that we would have people with championship qualifications coming forward and going to games like the Commonwealth Games and the Olympic Games and perhaps coming back with medals. It seems to me that we are placing too much emphasis on the very top quality athletes- the excellence part of amateur sport. 
I think that in Australia there are probably too many people who, although they are sporting enthusiasts, would participate in the main in spectator sport whereby they can go along and look at the various sports being played without actually participating. Of course it is important that we watch other people participate in sport but it is also important that we ourselves should participate. I wonder how many of us here participate in some regular formal recreation. 
-Senator Townley is well aware that I do, and I am well aware that he does, of course. I wonder how many people here participate regularly in sport. I wonder how many people in the Australian population actually have a formal recreational program.  Senator Bonner  mentioned the facilities that we saw at Montreal and some of the facilities that we saw at Edmonton whilst we were in Canada. These facilities are of course very good for the amateur athletes of Canada. I point out, without being parochial, that after 1982 there will be some excellent facilities in Brisbane also and that these facilities will be able to be used not only by Brisbane residents but also by residents of Queensland and visiting athletes from other parts of Australia. This is one of the good things which should come from Brisbane hosting the Commonwealth Games in 1 982. 
I will just say something about the comments in regard lotteries. Yes, I do believe that we have to give a greater commitment to sport and recreation in Australia. I wonder whether lotteries are really the answer. There is something of a myth in Queensland that the lottery there, which is called the Golden Casket, did, in preMedibank days, in large part fund the public hospitals in Queensland. If one looks at the public hospital costs and the profits which are made from the lottery in Queensland one can see that there is a vast difference. I am speaking from memory at the moment, but I think that the net profit from the Golden Casket in Queensland last year was about $6m. That is a very small amount of money when one considers the amounts of money which  Senator Bonner  was speaking of in regard to providing funds for our athletes. This of course was the total profit from the Golden Casket in Queensland. 
I wonder whether there might not be another approach in regard to sport which would be worth while. Of course this approach would cost the Commonwealth money, and therefore it would have to be looked at very carefully. Perhaps we could remove or reduce the sales tax on sporting goods in Australia. This would help not only the people who are going to participate for 
Australia  in  internationalgames but also every person who participates in sport in Australia because sales tax is an additional cost on any sporting equipment that a person purchases. It had not been my intention to traverse those two issues. I will now move to the subject matter on which I intended to speak in this debate this afternoon on the first reading motion of this Bill. 
Some time ago outside this Parliament I made it plain that there should be an independent inquiry into Australia's telegram service. I am still convinced that there should be such an independent inquiry. However, as I look further into the operations of Telecom Australia I am starting to become convinced that there should be an independent inquiry into many aspects of Telecom's charges. Firstly, may I mention just telegrams- the part of Telecom 's service which concerns me greatly at the moment. I would like to outline to the Senate some of the new charges that are to be made by Telecom as from 1 October this year. These new telegram charges did not receive much attention in the Press. I say that not as any denigration of the Press but rather as a denigration of Telecom for not publicising the increased charges widely enough. Let us look at some of the new charges. For a registered telegraphic address which will not concern most people in the community but which will concern the business community, the old price was $25. The new price will be $30 a year. 
Let us look at the actual charges for a telegram. The delivery charge for a telegram on 1 October will rise from 80c to $ 1 . 50. If a person wants to send a telegram and have it messenger delivered by what is often called a telegram boy but what often is now an Australia Post courier, it will cost $1.50. Previously if a person wanted to have the telegram addressed to a telephone number and Telecom just passed on the contents of the telegram through that telephone number there was no charge at all. As from 1 October the charge will be 50c. If a telegram is passed on through a telephone number and then delivered by mail the next day there will now be an additional 40c charge although there used to be no charge. There are a number of other increases in telegram charges. For instance, if a person wants to charge his telegram to a credit card that will now cost 40c. It once cost nothing. If a person wants to have an acknowledgement of a telegram by post that will now cost $1. It used to cost 25c. There are various minor increases in the charges. 
Most people now realise that it will cost 1 5c for every word to send a telegram. This means that if a person wants to lodge a telegram, have it trans mitted and then have it delivered by a telegram boy or by Australia Post the average telegram, which I am informed is about 22 words, will cost about $5. It seems to me that the cost of $5 for an average telegram to be lodged, transmitted and delivered is really outrageous. It is the sort of charge which will make sure that people do not use the telegram service any more. The excuse always being offered by Telecom is that the telegram service is losing money. One could well ask why it would not be. I suppose that we could use the rather exaggerated analogy of a person who wants to sell watermelons for $ 100 each. He would not sell many. At the price we are charging for telegrams it seems to me that people will not use this service very much and, therefore it will lose money. The excuse that is being given by Telecom is perhaps just a convenient excuse. As I said earlier, I wonder whether the aim is really to phase out telegrams. I sometimes suspect that it is. 
I shall digress for a moment. I outlined in this place on 29 May how it took a telegram that I sent on that day almost all day, from early morning to late afternoon, to go from Canberra to Brisbane. I thought that that was bad enough on 29 May. On the same night, however,  Senator Carrick,  who then represented the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley),  assured me that I would be informed what went wrong on that day with that telegram. It is interesting to know that I am still waiting for a reply. Perhaps the answer was sent to me by telegram. Whenever I try to find out how Telecom arrives at its stated loss on the telegram service I cannot do so. All that Telecom does is state in its annual report how much was lost on the telegram service. I am beginning to believe that some extraneous costs are being charged to the telegram service to boost the loss so that Telecom can say that the loss is so great that it has to increase its charges. We all know that the great money spinners for Telecom at the moment are its telephone and telex services. But I believe that there is a role for telegrams in the Australian community. It is for this reason that I would like to see some sort of independent inquiry into the telegram service to see what we can do to keep the costs low and to see whether the loss stated by Telecom is a loss in the real financial sense of the word. We have a responsibility to provide a telegram service as well as to make profits. 
Let me move away a little from the telegram service to some other aspects which I have seen since I became interested in Telecom charges. I was attracted to an advertisement in the  Australian Financial Review  on Wednesday, 6 September. I read part of the advertisement: 
Following reductions in STD and Telex call charges Telecom revises charges for auxiliary services. 
There have been reductions in subscriber trunk dialling charges and there have been reductions in telex call charges; so when the advertisement said that Telecom was revising its charges for auxiliary services I jumped to the conclusionwrongfully, I am ashamed to say- that there was also a reduction in some of the charges for auxiliary services. Further, the advertisement stated: 
As of September 1st, Telecom advises customers that the charges for a number of auxiliary services have been reviewed and rationalised. This follows on recently announced, significant reductions in the call charges for STD and automatic Telex. 
So far, so good. I still thought the charges would be reduced. The advertisement continued: 
Tariff changes will take place on a number of categories of services including the following: Miscellaneous telephone calls- for example: particular person, fixed time, reverse charge, credit cards, reminder calls. 
The advertisement went on to mention a few other miscellaneous telephone facilities. Later it stated: 
In addition, tariffs for private telephone and telegraph lines and Telegrams will also change on October 1st. 
I was aware of the increases in the cost of telegrams as of 1 October; so I became suspicious at that stage and thought that I should find out what these revised charges for auxiliary services were. I was dismayed when I did so; because most of them were increases. These increases have not received any great prominence in the media throughout Australia. 
I refer to a sample of these increases in telephone charges in Australia as from 1 September. If we make a particular person call there will be an increase in the charge. The cost of a particular person call depends upon the distance called. In the case of the Sydney-Canberra rate, the increase will be from 20c to 40c. That is a 100 per cent increase. If we want to make a fixed time call there will be a 100 per cent increase, from 20c to 40c. If we want to have a charge connect call- not many people would make charge connect calls, but I can recall that in one occupation I had once I made them frequently- there will now be a 40c charge. Until 1 September there was no charge. If we want to have a reminder call- many people use this service when they do not believe that they can rely upon their alarm clock to raise them in the morning- there will be an increase in the charge. As far as I can see, there will be a 10c increase. The call has now been reclassified from a reminder call to a booking call as well as the actual call itself. The total charge will be 50c, as against the original total charge of 40c. There are various increases in annual rental for intercoms, private manual branch exchanges, private automatic branch exchanges, private wire teleprinters and private telephone lines. 
All these increases did not receive much publicity. One would hardly expect that they would receive publicity when they appeared in an advertisement such as this, which stated that there were revised charges for auxiliary services underneath a line stating that there were reductions in charges for STD and telex services. I subsequently found, quite by chance, that most of the changes that took place as of 1 September were outlined in the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  dated 12 September 1978.I wonder how many members of the public actually read the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette. 
It would have been much better if Telecom had been totally honest in this advertisement and, rather than saying 'Telecom revises charges for auxiliary services', had said that Telecom increases charges for auxiliary services. We then would have been aware that there were increases in a number of charges. I repeat what I said when I began speaking about Telecom. There should be an investigation into the telegram service. While telegram rates increase and rumours persist throughout Australia that the service is to be phased out, an urgent independent inquiry is necessary. If we have an independent inquiry we will be sure either that what Telecom is saying is correct or that there will have to be some changes to the telegram service as now operating. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 24 August, 1 978: 
1 ) Does the Social Security Department withhold unemployment benefits from people who are living with an employed person of the opposite sex, even if no de facto relationship exists. 
Does a similar provision prevail with people who live with someone of the same sex. 
-I would like to make some comments about the previous speaker's reference to the remarks of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles).  The honourable member for Wakefield was definitely talking about how a decrease in the subsidy would help the sugar industry. In the House of Representatives on 14 September, when discussing sugar growers, he said: 
Their case will be aided by the Bill before the House tonight. In fact, it will help them considerably because it represents an added cost that I am sure the sugar industry will not forget when it presents a case to the IAC. 
It seems to me that if this argument were taken to its logical conclusion the sugar industry would be better off with no subsidy at all. I cannot accept that this is the case. I cannot accept that it is a valid argument that because the subsidy is going to be reduced the sugar industry will be better off.  Senator Maunsell  admitted his disappointment at this measure. I was surprised that he was so candid in admitting his disappointment quite openly to the Senate, although he said that the $20 a tonne was a mere pittance. I am sure that the sugar growers in Queensland will not accept that it is a mere pittance. 
-The sugar growers in Queensland will not accept that this is a mere pittance. It will be a significant cost to them. I would like to mention something of the origin of the subsidy. In August 1966 a subsidy was granted on manufactured nitrogenous substances used as fertilisers or as supplements to stock feed. I mention the origin of the subsidy because one could infer from the comments that were made earlier this afternoon that the subsidy has been in existence for a longer period. One could infer that because it was suggested that the subsidy had kept down the price of Australian sugar for domestic consumption, but the subsidy has been operating only since 1966. The initial subsidy, of course, was $80 a ton. Under metric conversion the subsidy was the equivalent of $78.74 per tonne. 
The Industries Assistance Commission recommended a phasing out of this subsidy. Its recommendations are worth looking at. It recommended that the subsidy per ton should be decreased to $60 in 1976, to $40 in 1977 and to $20 in 1978 and that it should cease at the end of this year. When the IAC brought down the recommendations I am sure that the sugar growers referred to it, as do many other people in the community- I suppose with tongue-in-cheek, but fairly wrongfully- as the 'Industries Assassination Commission'. I have heard that expression used on a number of occasions. One could quite understand why some sugar growers should refer to it in that way. Nevertheless, this Government has accepted in principle the IAC recommendations. Even though they have been accepted in principle the time-table laid down by the IAC has been delayed. This BUI reduces the subsidy to $40 per tonne. I think it is noteworthy outlining what  Mr Sinclair,  the present Minister for Primary Industry, said in May 1974, just prior to the election. It has been mentioned by  Senator Walsh  and  Senator Maunsell.  It should be made clear that  Mr Sinclair  said at that time that the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty would continue. I remind the Senate of what he said on 8 May 1974, just prior to the election that year. These words come from a media release issued by the National Country Party.  Mr Sinclair  said: 
I give an unqualified assurance on behalf of the Country Party that, in government with the Liberal Party, we will restore the bounty on superphosphate and ensure that the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty will continue. 

 Senator Maunsell said that the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty has continued. Of course it has; but it has continued at a reduced rate. It is now down to a subsidy of $40 per tonne, which is slightly more than half of what it was originally. It is worth while considering the price movements in nitrogenous fertilisers since about the time that statement was made by  Mr Sinclair.  The price movements indicate that, given the prevailing conditions in certain primary industries, there is still a need for the bounty. One could say that between about 1973 and 1977 the price of nitrogenous fertilisers has doubled. There will be an increase in the price of these fertilisers as a result of the fuel policy which the Government announced in the Budget. Fuel oils are basic to the manufacture of nitrogenous fertilisers. It has been suggested that the additional cost of urea will be about $ 14 per tonne as a result of the fuel price increase. Under this legislation the amount of the subsidy for urea will decline by $9.20 per tonne. There will be a smaller decline in the subsidy for other nitrogenous fertilisers. For instance, the subsidy on nitram, which has 34 per cent nitrogen content, will decline by $6.80 per tonne. The subsidy on sulphate of ammonia, which has a smaller percentage of nitrogen content at 2 1 per cent, will decline by $4.20. Urea, which has 46 per cent nitrogen content, will experience a subsidy decline of $9.20 per tonne. 
As a Queenslander, I am concerned about the reduction in the subsidy because of the effect that the reduction will have on the sugar industry. The sugar industry is not the biggest user of nitrogenous fertilisers but it is a major user of them. The export sugar price at the moment is barely half of what it reached in 1974 and, as most honourable senators would be aware, the sugar industry is going through an awkward phase. I am sure that as we progress to future years the sugar industry once more will become the profitable industry that it was, but at the moment in Queensland there is cause for concern. The drop in the price of export sugar has occurred mainly since the IAC made its report. It seems ironic that as late as May of this year we were debating in this chamber the International Sugar Agreement Bill- a Bill which would help to restore prosperity to the sugar industry in Queensland- and we are now debating a Bill which will reduce the subsidy on nitrogenous fertilisers which are used extensively throughout the sugar industry in Queensland. 
I can remember quite clearly the 1974 election campaign in Queensland. Some honourable senators would know why I recall it quite clearly. At that time one of the major election planks that some people were putting forward on behalf of the then Opposition was that if the people put the Labor Party back into government it would do away with the nitrogenous fertilisers subsidy, yet it is now actually being removed by the present Government. Any move to take from the Queensland sugar industry the subsidy on nitrogenous fertilisers will be quite significant. 
I outlined in the Senate not too long ago the significance of the sugar industry to Queensland. May I just remind the Senate of the number of people employed in the sugar industry in Queensland. The latest statistics that are still available on a reliable basis are those of the census for 30 June 1971. They indicate that the number of people employed in sugar cane growing and harvesting in Australia at that stage was 12,403. We know that a small quantity of sugar cane is growing in the northern rivers district of New South Wales. That figure of 12,403 takes into account the people working in the industry in that area as well. But by far the greatest quantity of Australian sugar is grown in Queensland. The number of people involved in the industry indicates the importance of the industry to Australia. 
In addition to the number of people employed in growing and- harvesting, 9,871 people are employed in the manufacture of raw and refined sugar. So we can say that in 1971 a total of 22,274 people was directly employed in the sugar industry. This is a significant part of our work force. These figures do not include some other people who are employed because of the sugar industry but not on a full time basis. I refer to people in the transport industry- for example, those in the railways- and those whom one might describe as wharf labourers. So in looking at those people who are employed in the sugar industry in Queensland or, if one does not want to be parochial about it, those employed in the sugar industry in Australia, one can say that the numbers are quite significant. The sugar industry is an important industry and it is one which should receive the support of the Government. It seems to me that with the reduction in the subsidy it will not be receiving the support that it should receive. 
It was mentioned earlier that the grain industry is a large user of nitrogenous fertiliser. In fact, the wheat industry uses about 45 per cent of the nitrogenous fertiliser consumed in Australia. One would not say that the wheat industry is an insignificant industry in Queensland. The latest statistics which I have been able to find in the Queensland Year Boole show that wheat production in 1975-76 had a gross value of $91m. It is a fairly big industry. It is interesting to point out how the increasing costs have affected the wheat industry too. In 1973-74 it took 0.83 of a tonne of wheat to pay for a tonne of urea. In 1974-75 that figure increased to 0.85 of a tonne. In 1975-76, when we had a reduction of about $ 18 per tonne in the subsidy for nitrogenous fertilisers or, to be more specific, a reduction of $18.40 in the price of one tonne of urea, the amount of wheat which was required to pay for one tonne of urea increased from 0.85 of a tonne to 1.25 tonnes. In 1976-77 that figure increased to 1.65 tonnes of wheat to pay for a tonne of urea. In other words, between 1973-74 and 1976-77 the price almost doubled. With the further reduction of $20 per tonne in the subsidy and with the rise in fuel prices, it would not surprise me if we reached the situation where it took two tonnes of wheat to pay for a tonne of urea. 
I have just mentioned that the sugar industry is a major industry in Queensland. I have said that the wheat industry is not a small industry. I wish now to mention one other industry, but by doing so I am not saying that these are the only industries which are greatly concerned because of the reduction in the subsidy. The pineapple industry is a fairly big industry in Queensland. The same Year Book to which I referred earlier set the gross value of pineapple production in Queensland in 1975-76 at $14m. Nitrogenous fertiliser is used extensively in the pineapple industry also. Urea is the main fertiliser which is used. Some estimates suggest that about 2,000 tonnes of nitrogenous fertiliser are used annually in the production of pineapples in Queensland. All that will result from the reduction in the subsidy, of course, is that the cost of production will increase in these industries. I believe that this is not the time to place an additional burden on significant rural industries in Australia. As a senator who represents Queensland, a State which will be adversely affected, I join with my colleagues on this side of the chamber in opposing the reduction in the subsidy which is outlined in this Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
1 ) Did the Treasurer state, in relation to the international tourist resort project at Yeppoon, that 'approval was given subject to a number of conditions . . . one condition states that the company is to make all reasonable effort to take on Australian partners, and involve Australians in management as the project develops ' (The  Courier Mail  3 1 July 1978). 
What does the Government consider to be a 'reasonable effort'. 
) What time is to be allowed for the company to comply with this condition. 
Will approval for the project be withdrawn if this condition is not met. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement by the Professional Radio and Electronics Institute of Australia and the Air Pilots' Guild of Australia which blamed the Federal Government for the current spate of light aircraft crashes in Australia, as reported in the  Courier Mail, on  18 July 1978. 
Is it correct, as stated in the  Courier Mail  article, that the Air Pilots' Guild 'had repeatedly warned the Government of the inadequacies of Australian air safety regulations, but all appeals had been rejected '. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to a report that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development congratulated a bank for providing loans to people who have to wait until next financial year to receive their home savings grants. Is the Government actively encouraging banks to provide loans to cover the funds which, by law, the Government should provide? If so, is this a tacit admission by the Government that it is broke? Finally, does the Government intend to pay the interest charges incurred by young people who discover that they are obliged to borrow because the Government refuses to pay their home savings grants this year? 
Before  Senator Chaney  was a Minister of the Crown I recall his saying some words in this chamber about charges for car hire services. Tonight I would like to make some comments about the administrative arrangements for car hire. I am prompted to do so because of an account that I received today. It is indicated in the account that I incurred charges ranging from $2.30 for one trip to $2 1 for another. I am interested not in the charges themselves but in the way in which we receive these notices about the use of official cars. The letter covering the account was addressed to my secretary and invited her, if she wished, to certifiy the account and forward it to a certain address. 
I point out that it is almost impossible for anybody in my office to certify this account for at least two reasons. Firstly, I think it would be necessary for the senator or member to keep a diary of some sort so that he, or his secretary, could check the various dates and perhaps, with some estimation, the time of the journeys. Secondly, we do not have any indication ourselves of the time charged for a journey. For instance one journey listed on the account occupied 10 minutes; another occupied 75 minutes; and so it goes on. As far as I am aware there is sometimes a variation concerning the time of commencement of the journey. Sometimes it is from the depot, and sometimes it is from the time of pick-up. It seems to me that if we are to be able to check the times on these accounts we will have to be given some sort of voucher at the end of the journey. In that way we can check the voucher with the account when it is submitted. I make the point that the whole exercise of forwarding these accounts to members and senators is probably somewhat futile. We cannot check them properly. We cannot certify them as we are invited to do. I ask the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  to have a look at this matter to see whether it is worthwhile continuing the practice or whether it should be discontinued or changed in some way so that we can actually certify the amounts which we are supposed to have incurred. 
The second matter I raise relates to the provision of telephone answering equipment for senators and members. Honourable senators will be aware that the Remuneration Tribunal in its 1978 review determined that members and senators, under a certain condition, would be able to have telephone answering equipment provided in their private residences. The relevant part of the review read as follows: 
The cost of installation, maintenance and rental of one home telephone answering equipment of a type to be specified by the Minister for Administrative Services, shall be at government expense. 
I ask the Minister: When can senators and members expect some decision to be made on the type of telephone answering equipment that can be provided in private residences? I ask this question because almost three months have elapsed since the determination was made. I also ask whether, in the interim, it might be possible for senators and members to have some telephone answering equipment in their private residences on a temporary basis while we await a decision. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
1 ) Did the Minister for Home Affairs advise the National Women's Advisory Council that he was considering legislation to prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex and marital status; if so, will the legislation apply to the Australian Capital Territory and the Commonwealth Public Service only. 
Would it be possible to extend such legislation beyond the Australian Capital Territory and the Commonwealth Public Service. 

 - Mr President, I think that you would probably recall from debates that we have had in this place that I would defend any measures taken to have adequate security in Parliament House. However, I must admit that I was somewhat surprised by your very short statement tonight on how we are going to strengthen security in respect of people who enter the public gallery. If tonight is not the correct time for you to do so,  Mr President,  would you at some time outline in greater detail the measures that you and  Mr Speaker  intend to adopt. Then we will be able to make some judgment on those measures. 
-Of course,  Mr President,  that matter was not my original reason for saying earlier that I would be speaking tonight on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate. I will be brief in my remarks. It was mentioned in the Budget papers that taxation changes would be made with respect to lump sum payments, in particular, lump sum payments for unused annual leave and unused long service leave. It was stated in the Budget Papers that unused annual leave would be taxed as ordinary income and that unused long service leave which accrued after the date of the presentation of the Budget on 15 August would be taxed at 33!6 per cent, the standard rate of taxation. I believe from Press statements that there probably has been a change of policy in regard to the taxation of lump sum payments, but I have not heard that stated in the Parliament. I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  whether he is able to indicate to the Senate this evening whether policy changes have been made and, if so, what those changes are. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
1 ) Did the Minister state, as reported in the  Courier Mail,  10 August 1978, that hewill go to Torres Strait to tell the Islanders of the planned border treaty between Australia and Papua New Guinea '. 
When will the Minister visit the Islands in the Torres Strait area. 
Will he be accompanied by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and other Ministers of the Queensland Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
Did a statement in the  Sun Herald,  20 August 1978, indicate that 'domestic airlines have introduced the new standby fares' to torpedo moves for cheaper fares; if so, can the travelling public expect that cheaper air fares are unlikely to occur in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
Is lime yellow the internationally recognised emergency colour, as mentioned in the  Sun Herald,  20 August 1 978; if so, does the Department of Transport intend to paint its new crash tenders lime yellow. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) What authority is required before furniture is sold from official Australian residences. 
Was furtniture from the Lodge recently sold; if so: (a) when; (b) who authorised the sale of the furniture; (c) what is the detailed description of the furniture involved, and (d ) what price was received for each piece of furniture. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
Will the Minister provide the text of the Department of Social Security circular in relation to reverse charge telephone calls, as requested in Question No. 486  (Hansard,  9-10June 1978, page 2815). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) When did the Department of Transport become aware that a passenger fee may be charged at Proserpine Airport. 
Why did the Department of Transport not give approval for a passenger fee at Proserpine before the new facilities opened. 
The issue I wish to raise tonight probably appears to be minor, yet for one person it is not minor because it affects him directly. I have mentioned before in this place that I have had problems in respect of representations I have made to the Redcliffe office of the Commonwealth Employment Service. I have continued to have problems with that office. To be honest, I do not know how I can remedy the situation. All I hear of are tales that come to me second hand from that office- and by that I mean from people who have been to the office and complained about it. I think the only way I can really find out whether there is truth in the assertions that have been made is to go down to the office of the Commonwealth Employment Service at Redcliffe one day and register myself and see what happens. I have desisted from doing that because if I do I might legally be prosecuted for misrepresentation. 
The situation that I refer to tonight does not specifically refer to the Commonwealth Employment Service. However, it does refer to the Service in passing. The matter I wish to raise has something to do with social security. I think that every member of this chamber has had some difficulty when representations have been made to him or her about a social security matter as often two departments are involved, namely, the Department of Social Security and the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. Again, the same situation probably prevails in this case. I would like to read to the Senate a letter sent to a person who lodged a complaint with my office. This man and his brother, incidentally, spent the great part of today in my office in Brisbane seeking work out of that office, not only in Brisbane but also in certain country areas of 
Queensland where it was suggested that employment was available for them. This man and his brother are quite willing to obtain work. In fact, they are quite eager to obtain work but cannot do so. The letter which was sent to one of them is dated 21 September and was written by the Department of Social Security. It states. 
On 7 September 1978 you attended the office of the Commonwealth Employment Service and were not suitably dressed for referral to a prospective employer. You were given an opportunity to change into suitable clothing but failed to do so. 
By your actions it cannot be accepted that you are taking sufficient steps to obtain employment and therefore your benefit has been rejected. 
If you are dissatisfied with the decision you should discuss the matter with the Commonwealth Employment Service at Redcliffe. If after the discussion you are still dissatisfied with the decision you may lodge an appeal with the Social Security Appeals Tribunal. 
I am informed that when this man came to my office today his dress was rather unusual but not unacceptable. I think that in the role we play as members of Parliament we too often adopt a middle class base of reference for our thoughts when considering other people. Therefore, if people are dressed somewhat differently, we could tend to think that their dress is somewhat unacceptable. But let me say that this man's dress was different from normal today but according to the report that was given to me it was not unacceptable. Apparently, this is the type of dress that the man was wearing when he went to the Commonwealth Employment Service at Redcliffe. He informed my staff that when he was given the opportunity to change into suitable clothing he replied that this was the best clothing he had. In other words, he did not have dress which was more acceptable than that which he was wearing. 
I would like to comment on a couple of aspects of this letter. Firstly, I assume that where it states that his benefit has been rejected it probably means that his claim for benefit has been rejected. I ask the Minister for Social Security to make inquiries to see whether  Mr Smith  was to be referred to a position. I have some doubts as to whether he was because he went into the office to lodge a claim at that stage. But if he was to be referred to a position, could we find out to what position he was going to be referred? If he was going to be referred to a position, I will accept that quite willingly. But in view of the difficulties that I have had with this office of the Commonwealth Employment Service, I would like the matter checked. 
I would also like to ask whether it is normal to suggest a discussion with somebody before lodging an appeal to the Social Security Appeals Tribunal. The letter states: 
If you are dissatisfied with the decision you should discuss the matter with the Commonwealth Employment Service at Redcliffe. 
Then it states that if he is still dissatisfied he could raise an appeal with the Social Security Appeals Tribunal. It would appear to me that it would be much better for the person to be told his rights. Then, perhaps, if the writer of the letter thought that a discussion would be in order he should say so after stating the person's rights. This man has said: 'Because of what I think of the Commonwealth Employment Service at Redcliffe, I am not going back there to discuss it with him and therefore, seeing I am not going to discuss it with him, I am not going to appeal to the Social Security Appeals Tribunal '. My advice to this man will be to appeal to the Social Security Appeals Tribunal, even if he does not want to discuss it with the officer in charge at Redcliffe. I ask the Minister whether it is normal to suggest this type of discussion or whether it is in order to suggest a discussion and then an appeal if the person is still dissatisfied. Even though I shall urge this person to lodge an appeal with the Social Security Appeals Tribunal, I ask the Minister if she would ask her officers to glance cursorily over this file once again before the appeal comes in to see whether an injustice has been done to this person. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
1 ) Were plans made by a private businessman to fly a Nomad aircraft from Australia to the South Pole. 
Was the proposed flight cancelled by the Department of Transport, if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What are the details for the period January to March 1978 relating to the questions asked in Question No. 642, the answer to which was provided on 13 September 1978  (Senator  Hansard,  page 589). 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
What are the 'large tenders for sophisticated units' which are emerging' in the Parliamentary Library referred to in the article 'New-generation typewriters outsmart the old electrics', the  Financial Review,  1 May 1978. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health by remarking that it has been reported to me that there are rumours of a recent outbreak of rabies amongst dogs in northern Australia. After making an investigation into the matter, I am reasonably certain that the dogs were not rabid but were suffering from distemper. Nevertheless, there is increasing unease about the possible introduction of disease into northern Australia, given the arrival of illegal immigrants. I therefore ask the Minister whether any unusual outbreak of disease amongst dogs has been reported in recent weeks and, if so, what were the results of the subsequent investigations? Finally, can the Minister assure the Senate that if an outbreak of a disease such as rabies does occur in Australia, knowledge of its presence will not be hidden from the Australian people? 

 - Mr President, you will find it somewhat incredible that, after such an impassioned speech, I intend this evening to speak about school flags. Since I have been in this chamber I think that I have been a fairly good student of procedure. I noticed the other night that my Party's Whip had a discourse on wigs. That being the case, I think it is quite pertinent for me to speak about school flags. Like many members of the House of Representatives and many honourable senators, I sometimes receive requests from schools to provide them with a school flag. I think that reaction to these requests differs from senator to senator and from member to member. Some members and senators like this type of activity; others do it because they think it is part of the job and that they have to do it. Recently amongst many requests, I received a request from a school in the Kingaroy area in Queensland. I was asked to present a flag to this school. 
As a matter of course I obtained a flag from the Department of Education which supplies flags to senators and members. I planned to present this flag to the school, for a number of reasons. One is that I still like to go back into schools because of my professional background to see what is happening in schools nowadays and to keep up an association with schools, especially in Queensland, the State in which I taught. As well as that, I think that it is the policy of whichever party happens to be in power to have a member of the House of Representatives or a senator present flags- so I am led to believe. I think that it is important that young people in schools have the opportunity to see their elected representatives from time to time. By being able to present flags one is able to talk to students, both young and old. I mention in passing that probably in most schools to which I go to carry out this duty after I have left the students probably are not aware of the political party to which I belong. That is not because I deliberately set out not to mention the party to which I belong but because I do not think it is my duty to mention party politics when I am in a school. 
After I had received the flag for the Kingaroy school my secretary set out to make arrangements for the presentation of the flag to the school. She telephoned the principal and suggested a certain day on which this could be done. After speaking to the principal she told me that the principal's attitude when he answered the phone was quite unusual. She reported that the school principal said that he had put in a request for just a flag; that the school did not go in much for presentations; that he did not really think that someone would come along to present it; and that all the school really wanted was a flag. He told my secretary that he would telephone her back on this. Because I had hoped to go to Kingaroy to present this flag next week I told my secretary that if she had not heard from the principal by today perhaps she had better telephone him back to see what were his thoughts about the presentation. So today she telephoned him as I had suggested. 
I do not know whether he was embarrassed when he mentioned this- my secretary said he sounded a little embarrassed- but he informed her that it might be better if I did not come to the school because after all that school is in the Premier's electorate and it might look bad if I came along. I was not all that taken aback because, after all, I have campaigned in the Kingaroy area from time to time. It is a somewhat unnerving experience for a member of the Australian Labor Party. As you would probably know,  Mr President,  from many things that were mentioned in this chamber and probably outside the chamber before I was elected to the Senate, I am not really  Mr Bjelke-Petersen's  pin-up boy. On the other hand, I suppose that the feeling is somewhat mutual. I wonder whether this school should be deprived of an Australian flag because of the fact that it is in  Mr Bjelke-Petersen's  electorate. 

 Mr President, when I was a teacher it was the accepted practice that if one received visitors to the school one would welcome those visitors, no matter who they were. I hesitate to say this in some respects because one of my colleagues who is a member of the House of Representatives is listening to me at the moment and he will probably hold it against me for the rest of my life: When I was the principal in a one-teacher school in a country area of Queensland I actually invited  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  into my school. I admit that he came only once. I admit that he came on that occasion only because an election was pending. He did not know me at that stage and he asked me whether he could leave his how-to-vote cards with me. 
The point I would like to make is that it was a long standing tradition in schools when I was a teacher to invite visitors in, to actually welcome them to the schools. I do not think that the pupils in Kingaroy should be disadvantaged, or perhaps I should say further disadvantaged, because they have the Premier as their local member. I am faced now with a number of alternatives. I can post the flag to the school, I can go to the school uninvited or I can return the flag to the Department of Education. 
I do not really ask the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  to respond to the comments that I have made tonight. However, I want to say that this is an unfortunate occurrence. I deliberately have not mentioned the school because I do not want to embarrass the principal. I have just said it is in the Kingaroy area. However, I think it is unfortunate that this principal has thought that it would not be good to have a Labor member in his school because of the fact that he lives within the electorate of the Premier of Queensland. It is not unusual for this sort of thing to happen in Queensland, for people to be worried about what is going to happen if a Labor member is invited to a place like this. I do not think it is a healthy situation to develop in Australian schools. I think this incident is important enough to recount to the Senate this evening. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Does (a) Trans-Australia Airlines or (b) Ansett Airlines of Australia provide passenger lists or names of passengers to (i) any State or Territory Special Branches; (ii) any State or Territory Police Force, or (iti) any section of the Commonwealth Police; if so are the lists or names provided on a routine basis or on request. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 24 August 1 978: 
Did the Deputy Prime Minister project on his return from the Philippines in August (the  Courier Mail  10 August 1978) that more countries 'would follow Finland, the Philippines and the United States and sign nuclear safeguards agreements with Australia'; if so, to which countries was the Minister referring. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
1 ) When did the Fire Board submit its recommendations to the Minister on the standardisation of fire hose couplings following the investigation to which the Premiers had agreed by October 1975 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  14 October 1971, page 2465, 19September 1974, page 1632,20 October 1976, page 2022, 9 December 1976, page 3723 and 16 August 1977, page 280). 
Have the recommendations been furnished to the States; if so, when, and with what result. 
When will the Minister table the recommendations. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
Has  Mr C.  G. Atkinson been seconded from his duties as Director of the Department of Social Security in Queensland; if so, (a) for what period has he been seconded; (b) to which position has he been seconded; (c) what are his duties in his seconded position; and (d) what are the details of his salary before and after secondment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
Have the Federal and Queensland governments failed to develop a working relationship on environmental administration as claimed in the  Financial Review,  6 September 1978; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
When will 1978 family allowance payments for students in each State and Territory terminate pending receipt of completed review forms. 
When will family allowance review forms be forwarded to students, in each State and Territory, who will be continuing their studies in 1979. 
-I present the following petition from 1 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament Assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia, respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the Fraser Government was elected in December 1975 after promising that pensions would be adjusted instantly and automatically in relation to quarterly Consumer Price Index Figures. 
And whereas that Government subsequently announced that pension adjustments should properly be made half yearly each May and November. 
It is the current intention of the same Government to Legislate for pensions to be adjusted only once a year, and this constitutes a serious breach of generally accepted ethics, of Democratic Government, and also deprives many needy pensioners of increases that are essential to the Subsistence. 
The foregoing facts impel the under-signed Petitioners to request the Australian Government to uphold the principle that trustworthiness of Governments should at all times be above question. 
And to appeal to the Parliament to prevent the imposition of further economic hardship upon Australian Pensioners, by rejecting any Bill which has for its aim the introduction of annual adjustments of Pension rates. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. Is it possible that mothers of some students who complete their full time secondary education in November this year will not receive family allowance payments for those students in December? Will full time secondary students who complete their education in November but who cannot find a job not become eligible for unemployment benefit until January? If the answer to both questions is yes, will the Minister investigate whether some family allowance or other assistance can be provided over this transition period1? 
I should like the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  to confirm that clause 3 is the clause which deals with post-graduate awards. 

 Senator Colston is objecting to that, but I think he should have the call to indicate what he is concerned about. 
I intended to speak to clause 3; but, being the first speaker, I wanted to be sure that I was on the right Bill because we have so many in front of us. I just wanted the Minister to confirm that clause 3 deals with postgraduate awards and, if he did, I would know that I was speaking to the correct Bill. I presume that I am. 
-I want to make some fairly lengthy comments about clause 3- lengthy in relation to the time that is at my disposal this morning. Currently there are three types of postgraduate awards. The first one is the postgraduate research award, which is the oldest award that has been available under this scheme. It was introduced in 1959. The post-graduate research award is for full time post-graduate research normally leading to a degree of master and /or a degree of doctor of philosophy. Postgraduate course awards- the second type of award- were introduced in 1971. They are for full time study in approved courses leading to a degree of master or course work at Australian universities. There is also a third category of award- post-graduate awards at colleges of advanced education. These were introduced in 1974. They are for full time study in courses leading to a degree of master by either course work or research at colleges of advanced education. 
A number of benefits are payable under each of these awards. The benefits include these allowances: Living allowance, dependant's allowance, travelling allowance, establishment allowance, thesis allowance and incidentals allowance. Until 1975 there was another allowance which was called a grant-in-aid. It was payable to universities to offset costs of post-graduate research students. The measure that we have before us in this Bill will lead to people with these awards receiving a lower rate of allowance. The question which has to be asked when we are taking action to decrease the allowances that these people will receive- to decrease them in terms of the take home allowance- is whether the allowance now will be more than adequate. If it is not more than adequate, it will be inadequate when amounts are taken from these awards due to taxation being levied upon them. 
A fair amount was said this morning about the allowances that were payable under the postgraduate awards scheme. In fact during Question Time I thought I heard the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  say that while the Labor Government was in power there was no increase in the amounts payable under this scheme. 
He may have said that we reduced them. If he did say either of those two things, what he said was patently incorrect. In 1973, 1974, 1975 and 1976 there was an increase in the amounts payable under the postgraduate awards scheme. We must remember that in 1976 we were working under the Budget which was introduced by a Labor Government. I will seek shortly to incorporate figures which show that what the Minister outlined at Question Time this morning about not increasing the amounts or alternatively, as has been suggested to me, about reducing the amounts payable under these awards was incorrect. It is interesting to look at the history of the amount payable under this scheme since the scheme was introduced. This will show us that if a tax is levied on these amounts the allowance payable will be nowhere near what it was in previous years. I have shown to the Minister for Administrative Services a table headed 'Post-Graduate Awards- Living Allowance'. I believe that the Minister has no objection to this table being incorporated in  Hansard  if that is the will of the Committee. Therefore I seek leave to incorporate this table in  Hansard. 
There are two sources for this document. One is the Parliamentary Research Service and the other is my own calculations. So it is a table jointly prepared by the Parliamentary Research Service and Colston. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="078232197810126_14_1.jpg"></graphic>

-If we inspect this table and refer to 1959 when post-graduate awards were first introduced we see that the single person 's allowance then was $1,400 a year. The allowance was the same for a married person with a dependent spouse and one child. I have chosen to use a married person with a dependent spouse and one child as a convenient example to show what a married person would receive. When the Minister gave figures about post-graduate awards this morning he used the example of a married person with a dependent spouse and two children. I think there is probably little difference for the purposes of illustration between my example and the example the Minister used this morning. 
Also listed in this table are the average weekly earnings for the particular years. In 1959 both the single person and the married person with a dependent spouse and one child received 65.4 per cent of average weekly earnings when they received their post-graduate awards. If we follow this through from 1959 to 1978 we see that there has been a gradual decline in the percentage received as a proportion of average weekly earnings. The rate of decline has not been constant. There have been times when there has been a slight increase but a decrease invariably follows. In 1978 we have now reached the stage where the single person's allowance is $4,200 a year and a married person who has a dependent spouse and one child receives an allowance of $6,222.80 a year. As a proportion of average weekly earnings that amount is now 37.5 per cent for the single person and 55.5 per cent for the married person with a dependent spouse and one child. I invite honourable senators to inspect this table to see how there has been a gradual decline in the worth of the allowance in relation to average weekly earnings since it was introduced in 1959. 
It is evident from these figures that the allowance is not as generous as it once was. There appears to me to be no justification to reduce it even further. With the cutback in the number of awards in 1957 and the reduction in the value of awards by taxation it is obvious that a lesser emphasis is being placed on excellence of attainment by this Government. I am realistic enough to know that despite my argument the proposal we have before us in this Bill will probably become law. Nevertheless, I invite attention to an aspect of the legislation which has the potential to be grossly unfair because if a certain approach is adopted in relation to deductions an injustice will be done to many of the people who are receiving these awards. 
As I outlined previously, all awards have a thesis allowance and an incidentals allowance. The thesis allowance is payable to assist with costs associated with the presentation of a thesis. The current maximum for a master's degree is $250. For a doctorate it is $400. The allowance is payable once only during the time that the award is held. The incidentals allowance is to assist students in meeting fees for student councils, unions and sports. The current rate for studies at universities is $ 100 a year. For studies at colleges of advanced education it is $70 a year. 
From the Minister's statement to the Estimates Committee last Tuesday it appears that thesis and incidentals allowances will be taxable. The Minister suggested that amounts expended could be claimed as a taxation deduction. I hold that this could be misleading. The Minister suggested that a deduction of up to $250 for selfeducation expenses could be claimed under concessional expenditure and that the remainder could be claimed in other ways. Firstly, I point to the fact that it could be a total waste of time for some students to list the $250 as a taxation deduction under concessional expenditure. Unless the student has other deductions under concessional expenditure exceeding a total of $1,590, the deduction of $250 will not count for anything. He will receive the same taxation deduction as though he had total concessional expenditure of $1,590. 
The types of expenses that can be claimed under concessional expenditure are education expenses for dependants- most students would not have these- rates and taxes, life insurance premiums and so on. Most students who have post-graduate awards would have very few expenses that they could list under concessional expenditure. Thus the $250 they might list for self-education expenses would not amount to anything and they would not be able to deduct this amount. It seems to me that there is the potential for an injustice. We should try to make sure that thesis allowances and incidental allowances are not taxable. There is probably an easy way out. I will not move an amendment but I think that an amendment along those lines would be better than the amendment proposed in the Bill. Clause 3(c) states: 
. income derived under a Post-graduate Award . . . 
We could have an amendment which reads as follows: or (iv) an amount received as living allowance under a post graduate award granted under the Student Assistance Act 1973. 
If such an amendment were accepted it would mean that just the living allowance was taxable. I do not agree that the living allowance should be taxable, but being realistic and knowing that it probably will be taxable I suggest that if we were to amend this Bill along the lines I have suggested it would make sure that only the living allowance was taxable. Then the incidentals allowance which is to be used for some other purpose and the thesis allowance which is to be used for some other purpose would not be taxable. I invite the Minister to examine what I have said in relation to this possible injustice to see whether we can avoid its occurrence. 
-I would like to comment on a number of points that have been made since I last spoke. I could read into  Hansard  figures in relation to the number of awards that have been offered. Those numbers did peak at 900 a year but for 1977 were reduced by 100 to 800, the level which prevailed in 1971. Therefore, with 800 awards offered per annum we have gone back to the level that prevailed seven years ago. Although awards will be taxable as from November of this year only, Treasury officials seem to have calculated that a fair amount of revenue would be derived therefrom. If I recall correctly, savings of $0.6m this year, and $ Im in a full year, were projected. If $0.6m is to be saved this year, a sizable amount of taxation must be imposed upon these students. 
I would like to comment on the latter point again. The Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  said that he would take my suggestion back to the Government. I appreciate that the only time when a student would be able to claim in respect of the excess of $250 would be in his final year, when he received his thesis allowance. In other years he would receive $ 100 incidental allowance, if at a university, or $70 a year if at a college of advanced education. So each year, except for the final year, he will be taxed on that amount and not be able to benefit from a taxation reduction in respect of an excess; he simply will not have an amount in excess. Only in his final year, when he receives the thesis allowance, might he be able to receive a reduction in respect of an excess. 
I note that the Minister said that he would take the matter back to the Government. Does that mean that, if the Government views my comments favourably, we might see an amendment such that only the living allowance, not the thesis and incidental allowances will be subject to taxation? 
-TON- I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports in yesterday's Brisbane  Telegraph  that a Liberal Federal Minister and a Liberal back bench member of the House of Representatives declared a holiday for the Everton Park State Primary School in Brisbane? Has the Minister's attention also been drawn to the comment from the Queensland Education Department that Federal members of Parliament, including Cabinet Ministers, had no right to go around handing out holidays to Queensland school children? In view of the distress caused to pupils and the relief of many mothers when the holiday did not eventuate yesterday, will the Minister lay down guidelines to his Liberal colleagues in relation to the granting of such holidays? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
How much did Trans-Australia Airlines pay P and O Australia for the 50 per cent interest which P and O Australia had in Dunk Island. 
-I present the following petition from 36 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the people of Australia having taken pan in the government of Australia through universal suffrage in December 1975 and again in December 1977 and that on the basis of their expressed choice at the ballot box the people of Australia gave authority to the LiberalNational Country Party Coalition to form a federal government to bring into effect specific policies promulgated throughout the length and breadth of Australia by the said Coalition and that, whereas by virtue of being elected through universal suffrage, the Government Members now sitting in the House of Representatives were authorised to implement their state objectives by legislation and that such authority did not extend to acting otherwise or to enact legislation not previously submitted to the will of the people, namely:- 
 Revoking the legislation for twice-yearly pension payments. 
 Imposing a freeze on the free-of-means-test pension. ° Unemployed divided into those with dependents and those without. 8 Imposing income tax on pensions under age pension age- invalid and repatriation service pensions; rehabilitation allowances and incentives; sheltered employment and allowances for tuberculosis sufferers (civilian and service) and any other impositions. 
Your petitioners submit that all or any of the foregoing proposed legislation of the Lower House, if implemented, will greatly disadvantage many thousands of citizens as either against their expressed will or not submitted to universal vote as the democratic right of the Australian people, therefore, 
Your petitioners call on the Senate as the House of Review to take appropriate action to release these persons from burdens unfairly placed in order to finance a deficit not of their making. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
For the last half hour we have been listening to quite a laborious attempt by  Senator Walters  to defend this piece of legislation. I do not wish to make many comments about her remarks except, perhaps, to look at two aspects of her comments. She said quite clearly at one stage that this Government does not like this legislation. Well, for once  Senator Walters  and I agree because we in the Labor Party do not like it, nor do the people of Australia. She also suggested that although when in government we said that we were going to increase pensions to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, we did not do so. Let me put the record straight: When we came to power in 1972, the standard rate of pension was then about 19 per cent of average weekly earnings. We said that we would increase this to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings and that is what we did. I will not cite figures ad nauseam about this matter but for those who are interested in seeing how we did increase the figure to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, I refer them to pages 233 and 234 of the Senate  Hansard  of 25 February 1976. At that time I incorporated a table which showed how pensions had been increased. 
When I found that we were going to debate this legislation I was reminded of the first speech that I made to this Parliament. In that first speech I spoke at length about pensioners and about the pensions that were then available in Australia. At that time I quoted from part of the Liberal Party policy speech in 1975. It is worth while now to look back at two quotes that I made in that first speech in 1976. 1 said that part of the Liberal Party policy speech read as follows: 
The real value of pensions will be preserved. 
I also said that later on in the Liberal Party policy speech presented in 1 975- again dealing with pensions- it said: 
These benefits will be protected against inflation. 
I wonder what the pensioners nowadays, if they were to look back to 1975 and what was said then in the Liberal Party policy speech, would think of those two promises: That the real value of pensions would be preserved and that the benefits would be protected against inflation? As I shall show later, this will not happen from now on. They were fine words back in 1975, but the pensioners of Australia nowadays are not interested in words: They are interested in actions. As I said, I will point out later how these two promises- promises that I quoted back in 1976 and which were contained in the Liberal Party policy speech of 1975- have now been wilfully broken.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I am reminded of a quotation that you have probably heard as you have moved around the areas of Queensland. It starts: 'Talk is cheap'. I will not continue that quotation, because some of what follows those words is not particularly nice. But I am reminded of it tonight because talk is cheap indeed. What the pensioners of Australia require is action. 
Let me mention some of the other aspects that I mentioned in my maiden speech to this Parliament in 1976. At that time we were debating the $10 charge for pensioners' hearing aids. The Minister for Health at that time,  Mr Hunt,  had introduced a $ 10 charge for hearing aids for pensioners. He said, when introducing that charge, that it would not create an undue burden. But five days later, that $10 charge was not going to be imposed. The Minister for Health then said that it would cause undue hardship. So in five days it moved from a state of not creating undue hardship to a state where it would cause undue hardship. What an about-face this was! But few of us realised in 1976 that  Mr Hunt's  action was a harbinger of the Fraser Government's ad hockery, of its reversal of decisions and of its general ineptitude during 1976, 1977 and 1978. 
On that occasion I also spoke of the then impending abolition of funeral benefits. I wonder whether people remember back to the time when we talked about the possibility that funeral benefits might be abolished? Do we remember how the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  took out her accountant's scalpel and attempted to cut out funeral benefits? It is amazing that only such a short time after the 1975 election I was forced to mention these things in this Parliament. But two years and eight months have passed since I had to make that speech. What has changed in that time? I would say that nothing much has changed. Certainly the funeral benefits legislation to which I referred was defeated, just as I hope this legislation that we are discussing tonight will be defeated. Over that time- over that two years and eight monthsunemployment has soared to dizzy heights, but even though it has soared to dizzy heights this Government continues to make ad hoc decisions that seem to be getting nowhere with the problems that confront us. If I may take the liberty of saying so, we can see that nothing much has changed because  Senator Guilfoyle  continues to wield her accountant's scalpel. 
In this Social Services Amendment Bill 1978, we see the most amazing about-face, the most bare-faced breaking of promises that I have ever seen. Even the previous  speaker, Senator Walters,  admitted that the promises that were made by her Government had been broken. But then she tried to rationalise why they had been broken. If promises are made to the electorate of Australia, the electorate of Australia expects those promises to be honoured. But they have not been honoured. If I were the Minister for Social Security, I would feel ashamed to come into this chamber to steer this Bill through the Parliament. If I were the Minister for Social Security in here tonight, I would be haunted by the broken promises that have been made by this Government. 
Let us remind ourselves of the promises and the statements made by this Government in relation to pensions and benefits. It is now well known by the whole of Australia that promises mean nothing to this Government. The people of Australia have seen promises broken time after time. Even such a short period after the election campaign of 1977, promises made then have been broken. But so that the Australian people are under no misconception about these broken promises, let us examine some of the promises and statements made by this Government. On 22 November 1977, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  addressed an Adelaide youth rally. When he referred to pensions he said: 
We have taken politics out of old age pensions and all other social welfare and repatriation pensions by increasing them automatically in line with inflation. 
Granted that after the increases that are to come into effect in November the pensions will be increased in line with inflation, but they will not be increased on a six-monthly basis as happened before. They will now be increased on a 12- monthly basis. Just to illustrate why it was well expected by the electorate that this six-monthly basis of adjustment of pensions would continue I quote from a Liberal Party advertisement of December last year which reported  Senator Guilfoyle  as saying: 
We believed it was important to take politics out of pensions and that's why we altered the legislation ... we said that when we came into government we would have an automatic increase. We've done that and whilst the Act remains as it is there is, every six months, an automatic increase to take account of cost of living. I 've had lots of people say to me 'You've given us dignity because you don't argue about our rises every six months'. 
It was quite clear from that advertisement, which was part of the campaign to get this Government back into power in the 1977 election, that the people of Australia, the pensioners of Australia, were led to believe that these six-monthly adjustments would continue. But they are not going to continue at all. What has happened in this Budget? Politics has been reintroduced to pensions. It has been reintroduced with a vengeance. There will be an adjustment of pension rates next month but after that there will be no increase for 12 months. The system of six-monthly adjustments has been scrapped. 
It is interesting to go back to the Liberal Party advertisement I quoted which reported  Senator Guilfoyle  as saying that pensions would be increased automatically every six months. In that advertisement she said: '. . . whilst the Act remains as it is . . .' So few of us thought in 1977 when the election campaign was being waged that these words were so significant. The 
Act will not remain as it is. It will be changed only 10 months or so after the statement was made because the Government has decided to discontinue the six-monthly adjustment of pensions. 
Why has the six-monthly adjustment been stopped? Let me mention one of the reasons we were given by the Government. We were told: 
This decision has been taken in the light of the significant reduction in inflation which this Government has achieved since its return to office. 
I hold that it is absurd to use that argument and I will show why. Inflation is now running at a rate of a little below 8 per cent. In 1971 and in 1972 the McMahon Government adjusted pensions twice yearly. At that time inflation was not running at the rate that it is running today. It was then running at less than 5 per cent. If the argument now is correct that six-monthly adjustments should be removed because the inflation rate is low, what that must mean is that the McMahon Government was wrong in 1971 and 1972 in having six-monthly adjustments. But I hold that the McMahon Government was not wrong. This Government is wrong in scrapping the six-monthly adjustments. The record of the McMahon Government in doing what it did clearly exposes the duplicity of this Government in deliberately reducing the standard of living of pensioners by refusing to adjust pensions every six months as it said if would in its election policy promises. 
Let us not forget that this six-monthly adjustment was a Fraser Government promise- it is a broken promise. Speaking of promises, what did this Government say about the means test for pensioners aged 70 years and over? The previous  speaker  tried to rationalise this by saying: 'Oh, yes, the promise was broken but-'. The promise certainly was broken. In his policy speech on 25 November 1975  Mr Fraser  said: 
We will move towards replacing means tests with an income test with a view to not penalising those who have saved. 
I wonder what the people aged 70 years and over think of that promise nowadays? 
I recently spoke to an old acquaintance of mine, a person whom I have known for over 35 years and who is now approaching her 90th birthday. This person is receiving an income of her own of $24 a week. Because of her income she will not receive any increase in her pension. She does not think much of the statement of  Mr Fraser's  that the Government would have a view to not penalising those who have saved. It is due to her savings that she will not be eligible to receive the increase in pension in November. 
Also in the same policy speech in 1975  Mr Fraser  said: 
We stand by our commitment to abolish the means test on pensions. 
Yes, we stand by our commitment to abolish the means test on pensions! But now the means test has been reintroduced in respect of any additional increases available to people 70 years of age and over. But let us move from 1975 to last year. On 5 April last year  Mr Fraser  made the statement that there would not be a means test for pensioners over the age of 70 years. I shall quote some of the statements made in an article which appeared in the  Australian.  That article states: 
The Federal Government will continue to exempt pensioners over 70 from any means test. 
Announcing this yesterday, the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  ended speculation on the reintroduction of a means test for all pensioners in the August Budget. 
The article continued: 
During an hour-long session with announcer Vincent Smith,  Mr Fraser  said he was disturbed at speculation that a pre-Budget examination of welfare spending would mean an end to means-test exemption for pensioners over 70. 
The article went on and quoted  Mr Fraser  as having said: 
I don 't think we can really get back to the situation where the pension is means-tested over 70. I think it would be difficult. 
In 1977 it was difficult. But in 1978 it is obvious that  Mr Fraser  has found a way to do this. The Budget states that in future pension increases for persons over 70 years of age will be subject to an income test. The promises were clear. The promise was that people aged 70 years and over would not be subjected to an income test. Now all their hopes of security have been dashed. Why has this been done? It has been done to save funds. It has been done to take away from the pensioners' pockets money that will stay with government. 
The removal of indexation this year will mean that $27m will be saved by this Government and that next year $60m will be saved. Because indexation will not apply this year, $2 7m has been taken out of the pockets of the pensioners- $2 7m that pensioners around Australia could well have used. The means test which has been introduced for people aged 70 years and over will save the Government $ 1 4m this year and $45m next year. So pensioners aged 70 years and over have been robbed of $14m this year. They have been robbed by a callous Budget which is to be consummated by the legislation we are now debating. 
In common with a number of honourable senators, I have received many letters protesting at this piece of legislation. I will read a copy of one of these letters which is typical of the letters that I have received. This letter states: 
I read with interest in Monday's  Courier-Mail  (9th inst) your comment on the proposed legislation for the means test on age pensioners 70 years and over. 
I would like to mention I wrote a letter of protest to the Prime Minister condemning his attitude in this connection and also on the revision of pensions to be made once a year. 
I also pointed out to him that the price of commodities did not take a rise once a year. They increased in price daily. I also opposed the big increase in petrol which also affects pensioners, who have a car for their means of transport. 
If the Prime Minister and Treasurer Howard must have more money there must be other ways and means of obtaining it, without imposing hardships on pensions. In my opinion it is a most despicable piece of legislation any Government could pass. 
I must mention the Prime Minister did not acknowledge receipt of my letter. 
I also noticed in the press the Government back benchers were opposed to the legislation and rightly so. 
That is typical of the type of letter that I have received. We must remember that the broken promise about twice-yearly indexation will affect not only the 1,200,000 age pensioners but also the 50,000 women who are on what was once called supporting mothers benefit but is now called supporting parents benefit, the 140,000 widow pensioners and the 240,000 invalid pensioners. At this stage it is worth reminding ourselves that in England last year pensioners received a Christmas bonus. It was not a large bonus; it was a bonus of £ 10. Even though it was not large it was nonetheless welcome. What will be the situation for pensioners in Australia this Christmas? Certainly there will be an increase in pensions from November, but at Christmas the pensioners will have the prospect of a long- 12 months- wait until their pensions are once more adjusted. That long wait will be a direct abrogation of promises made by this Government over the past two years. 
It is worth reminding ourselves when we are looking at this Bill- the Social Services Amendment Bill 1 978- that it also totally discriminates against those who cannot find a job and who have no dependants. Those people will not have their unemployment benefit adjusted on a once a year basis, as other pensions will be adjusted; nor will this happen to those who are under 1 8 years of age. The same provision will prevail for sickness benefit as well for those who are under 18 years of age. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  announced that these benefits will be reviewed annually at Budget time. 'Reviewed' is the key word. They may or may not be adjusted. The very livelihood of the unemployed person without dependants and the person who is less than 1 8 years of age will hinge on the generosity of the Treasurer. That reminds me of something that was said by  Mr Fraser  in 1974. He was quite generous then about the types of allowances that he would give to people who are unemployed. I wish to quote from an article headed 'Fraser says jobless will pass 200,000 ' in the  Daily Mirror  of 9 September 1974. In part, it reads: 
An unemployment level of 200,000 now seemed inevitable,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser said today. 

 Mr Fraser is the Federal Opposition's spokesman on labour. 
He said he believed the figure would go even higher before the Government was able to reduce it. 

 Mr Fraser suggested higher unemployment benefits if the number of jobless got much worse. 
He said the Government should pay the minimum wage of about S80 a week if the number of people out of work reached 250,000. 
By that time it will be almost impossible for these people to get a job',  Mr Fraser  said. 
I remind  Mr Fraser  that according to the latest figures- the figures for September- the number of people now out of work is 382,000. Although it is far in excess of the 250,000 which he said should be the mark at which the minimum wage should be paid he is reducing or effectively reducing unemployment benefit for a significant section of the community- the people who will not receive automatic adjustments, that is, the people with no dependants and those who are under 18 years of age. 
My colleague  Senator Grimes  mentioned before the suspension of the sitting that the payment of maternity allowances was to be scrapped by the passage of this piece of legislation. Nothing is to be put in its place. It is worth while noting that assent was given to the provision of maternity allowances 66 years ago- on 10 October 1912. The maternity allowance that was paid then was an allowance of £5, or $10 in the terms of the currency used nowadays. Since then the consumer price index has increased 12 times. So, in monetary terms, the maternity allowance of 1912 would be really worth about $120 nowadays. I would like to quote what the Prime Minister of the day actually said about that piece of legislation. Prime Minister Fisher, said: 
When this Bill becomes law a woman will know, and everybody acquainted with her will know, that there is £5 awaiting her. It is one of the features of the commercial life of the present day that where there is money about a number of people become interested in that quarter. The butcher, the baker, the tinker, the tailor, the medical man, and others, will all remember that there is £5 about, and although the money is not in their hands, the credit will be good. 
Prime Minister Fisher, in introducing legislation providing for the payment of maternity allowances in 1912, pointed out that it would be of use to the women of that time to obtain credit where they wanted credit and to meet the expenses associated with the birth of a child. Would not the same situation still prevail for many of the underprivileged in our society today? I believe that it would. But this allowance has been taken away and nothing has been put in its place. 
When I look at the legislation that is before us tonight- legislation that I still have hopes will not get through this Parliament- I think not only of the wide range of people whom it is going to affect, such as the supporting mothers and the invalid pensioners, but also and especially so of the aged in our society. It is unfortunate that the aged in our society are being singled out by this legislation to bear the brunt of what was a brutal Budget. The legislation that we are discussing was rightly described by the Queensland constituent whose letter I read to the Senate tonight as 'a despicable piece of legislation'. This legislation is an assault on those in our society who are dependent on this Government for their very livelihood. I trust that sufficient honourable senators opposite will have a spark of compassion which will compel them to vote against this legislation. 
When I commenced speaking earlier this evening I quoted a part of the first speech that I ever made in the Senate. I remember that speech well, as I suppose we all remember the first speeches that we made in this place. When I first entered this chamber in 1976 I said that I would fight for the underprivileged in our society. I am doing that tonight, as is every honourable senator on this side of the chamber. As well as fighting for those in our society who are underprivileged, we are fighting for those who have given a great deal of their labours to this country and who should now be able to enjoy their retirement using the pensions that they thought they would obtain in the evening of their life. Many of them will not be able to have the same standard of living as they thought they would because of changes wrought by this Budget. As I have said, we on this side of the chamber are fighting for the underprivileged in our society, we are fighting for the aged and we are fighting for those who are dependent on the Government for their livelihood. I will continue to fight, as will every other honourable senator on this side of the chamber. I hope and pray that sufficient people on the other side of the chamber will view this legislation in the way it ought to be viewed, namely, as legislation based on broken promise after broken promise. When the time comes to vote on this Bill I certainly hope and pray that it will be defeated. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report that the Queensland based Security Permanent Building Society is to offer cheque-drawing facilities to its members? Does this innovation by Security Permanent in effect mean that members of the society are offered a cheque account bearing interest at the rate of 9 per cent per annum? 
Can the Minister advise whether the scheme has been investigated to see whether it conforms with the Bills of Exchange Act? Finally, does the Government view favourably a move by building societies to offer cheque account facilities to their members? 
The second reading speech by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  on the Social Services Amendment Bill included a table showing the amount of weekly pension that would be payable to persons aged 70 years and over according to their weekly income from another source. Perhaps my confusion arises because no explanatory notes on this Bill were provided. I ask the Minister: Where is provision for these calculations made in the Bill or in the principal Act? Does this basis actually correspond with the income tests currently applicable to pensioners aged between 65 and 70 years? 
I break new ground this afternoon. For the first time in debate in this place I disagree with my colleague from the Australian Democrats. I suppose having broken new ground it will not be the last time that I so disagree. Last night I outlined very clearly that there was a broken promise associated with this clause. I outlined how the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in 1975 when he was the caretaker Prime Minister said that there would not be a means test for people aged 70 years and over. He went even further. He said that the means test would be abolished. Last year he said that there would not be a means test for these people. During the election campaign last year the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  was quoted as having said that a means test would not be imposed. But this being the case, the clauses that we are discussing are the vehicles that will be used to break this promise. Therefore if we are to keep the Government honest I do not see why we should not oppose this clause and other clauses of the Bill. It is in this area that I must say I disagree. 
May I raise another matter that perhaps the Minister might be able to clarify. Some pensioners have approached me because they have received from the Department of Social Security notices asking them to put in a statement of income. They were told that they might or might not receive an increase in their pension. They found the notice sufficiently unclear to be not sure whether they will be disadvantaged in comparison with people aged between 65 and 70 years. The Minister's second reading speech contained a table which set out pension rates. I note in that table that a couple who receive $34.50 or less as a combined weekly income receive the maximum rate of pension. But then the rate declines to the stage when if the weekly income is $40.30 the recipients become entitled to a weekly pension of $42.90. This means that the pensioner couple will not receive any increase in pension. What I would like to know is this: Are the figures in that table exactly the same as for people between the ages of 65 and 70 years? Of course, a table for 65 to 70 year age group would go further and show declining rates of pension because of increased weekly income. 
Last night in the second reading debate on the Social Services Amendment Bill I pointed out my opposition to clause 6. 1 do not intend to canvass again the arguments that I canvassed last night. However, I am a little disappointed that in discussing clause 6 this afternoon, some of the debate has degenerated to a personal level. We will not enhance the debate and the thinking about the provisions of this clause by having a debate like that. I refer to clause 6(b) and raise a question in regard to it which perhaps the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  may be able to answer. Clause 6(b) amends section 28a (5) (a) of the principal Act. The new subsection concerns the factor to be ascertained for the purposes of sub-section 4 in relation to the relevant period and will read:   . . the number, calculated to 3 decimal places, ascertained by dividing the index number Tor the last preceding June quarter by the highest index number in respect of any other preceding June quarter, being such a quarter in the year 1 978 or any subsequent year; 
From my reading of the proposed new subsection, it seems that it will probably work satisfactorily forever as long as we want to have the Act worked in this way. However, I think that it contains a possible defect. I will explain my understanding of the clause and the Minister may be able to show me where I am wrong if there is no such defect. I will not use the correct indices but by way of example let us suppose we have a consumer price index of 120 in 1978 and then for some reason in 1979 we had an index of 1 10. This would be a most unusual scenario but it could happen. In other words, there would be a decrease in the consumer price index. In that situation, I think that clause 6 would still work in that there would be a decrease in the rate of pension. 
-I accept that but let me continue. Suppose that in 1980 the consumer price index became 115 and then in 198 1 it rose to 125. 1 would assume that if in 1980 we had an index of 115 and in 1981 an index of 125, the factor would be obtained by dividing 125 by 115. However, it seems to me that the clause states that the factor shall be obtained by dividing the index number for the last preceding quarter by the highest index number in respect of any other preceding June quarter. In these circumstances, it seems to me that one would divide the 125 not by the 115 of the immediately preceding year, but by the 120 which was the highest index number of any other preceding June quarter. 
If I am correct in my assumption it would seem to me that the matter could be tidied up quite simply by altering part of the amendment to read for the last preceding June quarter by the index number in respect of the preceding June quarter'. I admit that this is rather complicated but it seems to me there is no other way to outline what I believe could be a deficiency in this part of the amendment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
Did some philatelic post offices have no copies, or have short supplies, of the imperforate minisheet of the Famous Australian Aviators stamps, on the first day of issue: if so, (a) why; and (b) which philatelic post offices were involved. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978. 
Is a person receiving unemployment benefit required to notify the Depanment of his intention to leave his place of address for a short period; if so, what are the relevant instructions or sections of the Social Services Act 1947 which make this necessary. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has the Minister investigated the case of  Mr Derek  Martin, who was mentioned on page 1 of the  Sunday Sun,  8 October 1978; if so. what are the results of the investigation. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
Did an article in the  Sunday Sun,  1 October 1978, assert that  Dr Win  Fowles has been told that he would be taken to court unless he paid a $2 penalty for failing to cast his vote at the last election; if so, what action is now being taken in relation to  Dr Fowles  and his failure to cast a vote at the last Federal election: 
-My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence is prompted by anxiety amongst Gympie and Maryborough residents about rumours that there will be a movement, on a permanent basis, of significant numbers of defence personnel to the Gympie or Maryborough areas. A number of rumours prevail, a persistent one being that troops from Brisbane are to move to the Gympie or Maryborough areas. These rumours are causing considerable uncertainty in the real estate business in both cities. Therefore, could the Minister indicate whether any troops are to move to the Gympie or Maryborough districts on either a permanent or semi-permanent basis? 
This afternoon I wish to speak for just a minute or two on a matter which relates to Queensland. This weekend in the eastern States, except Queensland, a change will be made to daylight saving time. In Queensland ho change will be made. Because of this certain disruption will occur between Queensland and the States which have daylight saving. It is not as if there is normally a time difference of one hour between Queensland and the other eastern States; it is normally the same time throughout the eastern States. Because suddenly there is a time change in the other eastern States, disruption occurs. I refer specifically to the disruption that occurred the year before last when a number of Australian Broadcasting Commission programs were presented an hour early in Queensland because they were designed for the time in New South Wales, Victoria and Tasmania and not for the time in Queensland. As a result, the Queensland people were disadvantaged. 
Last year, following representations made not only by me but also by an honourable senator opposite, the change had a fairly minimal effect. The Australian Broadcasting Commission took steps to ensure that, as far as possible, the programs were still broadcast in Queensland at the normal times. For instance, if the evening news which is broadcast at 7 p.m. during the winter months were still broadcast at 7 p.m. summertime, in New South Wales, Victoria and Tasmania that would be 8 p.m. eastern standard time-. As I said, last year the situation was much improved on the situation which pertained in the previous year. However, last year there were still occasions when programs were relayed to 
Queensland at the appointed hour for the southern States but which according to Queensland time were an hour earlier. Those occasions were small in number but when they occurred some problems were created for people who were used to watching a television program or listening to a radio program at a certain time in that they found that those programs were being broadcast an hour earlier than usual. Therefore I make a plea this afternoon that consideration be given to this matter. I am not sure whether the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  can take up my remarks with the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley).  Perhaps the officers from the Postal and Telecommunications Department which administers the Australian Broadcasting Commission can look at the  Hansard  record and take note that when daylight saving comes into effect on the weekend the Australian Broadcasting Commission does everything it possibly can to ensure that the scheduled times of programs in Queensland are not altered during the summer period so that Queenslanders will not be disadvantaged because that State has decided not to introduce daylight saving. 
We are debating the Defence Service Homes Amendment Bill 1978. To the motion that the Bill be now read a second time  Senator Gietzelt  has moved as an amendment, which I seconded, as follows: 
Leave out all words after 'That', and insert: the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted: 
to maintain the present eligibility of members of the Defence Services for housing finance from the Defence Service Homes Corporation; 
to permit Parliament to maintain adequate scrutiny of the Defence Service Homes Insurance Scheme; 
because it introduces a fee for consideration of the application for a loan for the first time, thus increasing the cost to the applicant; 
because it introduces a discriminatory preference system between those with eligibility based on war service; and 
because increased funds should be made available to restore the decline of SO per cent, in real terms, over the last three years '. 
The Defence Service Homes Scheme came into operation in March 1919 after the enabling legislation was passed in 1918 as outlined by the previous  speaker, Senator Archer.  Although it is now called the defence service homes scheme it was called the war service homes scheme until 1973. The eligibility provisions since 1919 have been considerably widened. Service in World War II became one of the eligibility provisions. There were subsequent campaigns in Korea, Malaya and Vietnam which enabled people to become eligible for a war service home loan. In 1973 there was a major change when servicemen who had served for three years became eligible for a defence service homes scheme benefit. In the 1977-78 Budget the qualifying period was extended from three years to six years. 
Looking at the objectives of the scheme over the years since it came into operation one sees that the policy objectives have changed. As far as I can see, the first policy objective was a repatriation objective. Later on the objective became one of reward for war service. Finally there was an objective of using the scheme as a means of attracting and retaining persons in the defence Services. At the moment the person eligible for a defence Service home loan can borrow up to $15,000 under the scheme. The first $12,000 is repayable over 32 years at an interest rate of 3.75 per cent a year. The remaining $3,000 is repayable over 32 years at 7 1/4 per cent a year interest. Therefore the average rate of interest for the $15,000 is about 4 1/2 per cent. This money can be used as assistance to build, to purchase land with the intention of building, to purchase a dwelling, to complete the building of a partially erected house or to enlarge an existing dwelling. 
The purpose of this Bill that we are discussing today is to amend the Defence Service Homes Act in a number of ways. The first proposal in the Bill is to extend the qualifying period before a person is eligible for a loan. Persons who commence full time service in the defence force on or after 17 August 1977 will become eligible for a loan on completion of six years continuous full time "service subject to a commitment to render full time service. This qualifying period may be contrasted with the previous three year qualifying period.  Senator Gietzelt  spoke at length on this and pointed out how this change takes away the eligibility of some members of the defence forces. 
The second proposal in the Bill is to allow the Defence Service Homes Corporation to give a measure of preference in the allocation of loans. A third proposal is to charge a fee to loan applicants, the amount of the fee to be determined by the Corporation.  Senator Archer  said that he agreed with the imposition of a fee. With regard to this proposal it is interesting to note that the report on the defence service homes scheme from the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure at paragraph 107 (D) stated: 
There be no application fee for those who receive grants. 
But an application fee is being put into the legislation by this Bill. The fourth proposal is that there be a recognition for purposes of the Defence Service Homes Act of de facto relationships. I can do nothing but agree with this proposal. The fifth proposal deals with certain financial procedures as outlined in clause 9 of the Bill. 
The sixth and final proposal which I mention is a proposal which deals with insurance. It is to this that I direct some remarks. I am not satisfied that this Bill removes a discrimination, of which I have spoken before in this Parliament, against certain Queensland residents. Honourable senators would not need reminding that associated with the defence service homes scheme is a special insurance scheme. This scheme is called the defence service homes insurance scheme. I have outlined before in this place when discussing the defence service homes insurance scheme how from 1 September 1977 a loading was applied to insurance premiums in Queensland. It was about 20 per cent of the normal premium payable. Those people in Queensland with insurance under the scheme were informed of this decision in a notice which was sent to them and which concluded in this way: 
In view of the co-operative nature of the scheme, it is desirable that insured persons contribute equitably. Accordingly, when it is apparent that homes in one region are regularly costing more to insure, it is appropriate for that to bear a larger proportion of its excess cost. The cost of insuring homes in Queensland has been regularly exceeding the costs of insurance in the rest of Australia over the last six years. For this reason, effective from 1 September 1977, a loading has been applied to premiums payable for insurance in Queensland amounting to about 20 per cent of the normal premium payable for the average home insured. 
It is worth reminding the Senate that Queensland is the only State in which a loading has been applied to insurance premiums under the defence service homes insurance scheme. Before this loading was applied, premium rates were the same throughout Australia. Now they are the same everywhere except in Queensland. Those who determine policy for the insurance scheme conveniently forget that defence service personnel who qualify for homes under this scheme and consequently qualify for insurance on their homes did not enlist to defend Queensland only. They enlisted to defend Australia. I fail to understand why men and women who pledge to serve Australia should be charged different home insurance premiums solely because they live in Queensland. The defence service homes insurance scheme is a cooperative scheme. That being so, why can there not be co-operation throughout Australia in equalising insurance burdens? 
Figures are available which show what premiums have been received and what claim payments have been made under the defence service homes scheme for each State and Territory. I obtained these figures in answer to a question upon notice in which I asked for figures for each year since 1956. 1 chose 1956 to get a 20-year history of claims and payments which one could examine. It is possible to be given figures for the six States only; that is, regional figures are not available. Even though the figures may be read by reference to pages 2822 and 2823 of the Senate  Hansard  of 9 June 1978, they are particulary germane to my argument, which I will be developing further. I thus seek leave to incorporate them as a table in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="079232197810264_46_1.jpg"></graphic>

It may be seen by reference to the table that included in the figures for New South Wales are those for the Australian Capital Territory and Norfolk Island. Papua New Guinea figures are included with the figures for Queensland. Included in the figures for South Australia are those for the Northern Territory. The fact that Papua New Guinea figures are shown as part of the Queensland figures makes the whole philosophy of charging separate premiums for Queensland somewhat suspect. What similarity, for example, has Port Moresby with Brisbane or with some, other city or town in Queensland? The figures available show that from 1 966-67 to 1 974-75 there was an excess of payments over premiums paid in Queensland under the defence service homes insurance scheme. I asked the Minister in a question upon notice: 
What major event or events contributed to the loss in these years and which were the principal cities and towns affected. 
The information given to me was outlined on page 508 of the Senate  Hansard of  12 September 1978. The Minister's reply showed that in 1966-67 the principal event contributing to the loss was a hailstorm, and the city most affected was Brisbane. In 1967-68 and in 1968-69 there were hailstorms in Brisbane, Maryborough and Bundaberg. In 1969-70 and 1970-71 there were further hailstorms, this time in Brisbane and Redcliffe. In 1971-72 and 1972-73, the major events which contributed to the loss were Cyclone Althea at Townsville and a tornado in Brisbane. In 1973-74 and 1974-75 the major event was Cyclone Wanda, which affected principally Brisbane, Ipswich, the Gold Coast and the Sunshine Coast. Those of us who were living in Brisbane and nearby areas at the time would not forget the devastation that occurred because of cyclone Wanda. It was devastation that we thought would never occur in Brisbane but which certainly did. 
After 1974-75, however, the pattern changed. In 1975-76 and in 1976-77 there was in Queensland an excess of receipts over payments. In other words, the pattern evident in those disastrous years from 1966-67 to 1974-75 had been reversed. The payments made for claims in the last two years for which statistics are publicly available were less than the receipts which had been gathered. 
-The figures do take administrative costs into account. If the honourable senator has a look at the table- he will be able to  have a look at the table when it appears in  Hansard- he  will see that the figures for the receipts received are net of fire brigade and administration charges. So over the last two years in Queensland there has certainly been a surplus of receipts over claims paid. That was not the case for the earlier period that I mentioned. I do concede that. But, as I shall go on to show, 1 do not think that there is sufficient evidence to be able to charge a premium in Queensland. 
Some people may consider that there is a reasonable principle in requiring additional premiums from those people who live in areas which have incurred losses of the magnitude that occurred in 1966 and 1974 in certain areas of Queensland. Yet there is a major flaw in that argument. The figures given to my by the Minister in answer to a question upon notice indicated that with only one exception the principal areas affected in the bleak years from 1966-67 to 1974-75 were around Brisbane. In fact the places mentioned in the Minister's reply were Brisbane, Maryborough, Bundaberg, Redcliffe, Ipswich, the Gold Coast and the Sunshine Coast. The latter six areas that I mentioned are in close proximity to Brisbane. The only exception to those areas in south-east Queensland was the city of Townsville. Thus if the principle is correct, that additional premiums should be payable, for what reason, for example, does the person in Toowoomba have to pay additional premiums? The city of Toowoomba is not even mentioned in the list supplied by the Minister. 
Let me take two other cities in Queensland. Why should people in Mount Isa or Rockhampton pay additional premiums? These cities were not mentioned as areas where events occurred which led to losses. The only reason why people in those areas would be paying additional premiums is that unfortunately they happen to be in the same State as an area which suffered extreme losses. One can quite logically query why people in Gladstone, Mackay or Longreach- to mention three more examples- should pay additional premiums because of major events contributing to loss in a particular part of the State. I hold that that is equally as absurd as saying that the whole of the State should have premiums different from any of those in other States. 
I note, by reference to the table that I incorporated in  Hansard,  that in a series of disastrous years in South Australia there was an excess of payments over receipts. For instance, in 1959-60 there was such an excess. From 1961-62 to 1966-67 there was a similar pattern of payments exceeding receipts. Was an additional premium applied to insurance in South Australia at the time? As far as I am aware, it was not. If that is the case, why should an additional premium be payable in Queensland? I hold that it should not. 
Queensland people certainly experienced a run of disastrous years, yet figures show that that run of disastrous years has ceased. Queensland residents should not have to pay additional premiums simply because in a small period of time in comparison with the time that the whole scheme has been in operation events have occurred which have caused severe losses. The two events which caused the most severe losses would have been Cyclone Althea and the floods in Brisbane and nearby areas in 1 974. With regard to those floods, I believe that the defence service homes scheme should bear part of the blame for the losses incurred. Under the scheme, houses were built and purchased in a flood plain area. Thus Queenslanders now appear to be paying for mal-administration within the scheme; mal-administration in allowing houses to be built and purchased in areas that are liable to flood. If houses are built on Brisbane's flood plain area it is inevitable that at some time they will be flooded just as they were in 1974. Despite flood prevention measures, it is inevitable that these areas will be flooded again some time in the future. It may be anything up to 100 years time, but the flood will occur. When houses purchased under the scheme were built on those flood plains it should have been acknowledged that severe flooding would eventually occur and that the defence service homes insurance scheme would suffer considerable loss. 
I reiterate that there should be equal premiums throughout Australia under this scheme. The Government should discontinue the rip-off and victimisation of Queensland residents. There is no reason why a scheme which covers the whole of Australia could not accommodate different rates of claim from one State to another or from one region to another. People in Queensland who are insured under the defence service homes insurance scheme will not accept the discrimination which is being directed towards them. I again suggest to the Government that the new loadings in Queensland should be scrapped. From my reading of the Bill, nothing indicates that this type of practice will be discontinued. In fact, it appears to me that this type of discrimination might even be extended. That will be a sorry state of affairs for a scheme which has had a long history and which has served defence service personnel so well over the years since its inception just after the close of the First World War. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether taxpayers' funds were used to mount a publicity campaign earlier this year to explain income tax reductions. If taxpayers' funds were so used, does the Government plan to employ public funds to outline to the Australian people how it has now increased income tax rates? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
How much has been spent under the Special Youth Employment Training Program and the National Employment and Training System (on-the-job training) on trainees placed in the retail trade. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
How many and what type of aircraft are in the fleet of (a) Trans-Australia Airlines and (b) Ansett Airlines of Australia. 
I present the following petition from 20 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
We. the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble Petition respectfully showeth: 
That the decision of the Australian Government to depart from its 1975 election promise, a promise re-affirmed during the 1977 election campaign, that pensions would be increased twice-yearly in line with increases in the CPI, will seriously add to the economic burdens now borne by those citizens who are wholly or mainly dependent on their pensions. 
Your petitioners are impelled by this fact to call upon the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to review the abovementioned decision, and to determine- 
That pensions will be increased twice yearly in line with rises in the CPI as promised by the Prime Minister in his 1975 policy speech. 
Your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
ACT Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 
Some little time ago in this chamber I made a few passing references to sport in Australia. I outlined the view that perhaps in Australia we had become too much spectator sportsmen or sportswomen. I am convinced that Australians could be a more healthy group if they were to participate in active regular sporting programs more than they do. Nevertheless, there is a place for spectator sport. Why. for instance, should a keen golfer not be able to see good professional golf being played? Why should an average football player not be able to watch the best players in his code? To take a further example, I see no reason why our future sportsmen or sportswomen- today's school childrenshould not be able to view good professional sport performances. Watching sport can be not only an enjoyable pastime but also educational for the active participant. In recent years, because of television it has become increasingly easy to become a sports spectator. Some would say it has become too easy. Yet this is probably part of a general argument against television in our society rather than a specific argument against the watching of sport on television. 
Nowadays, the golfer, the footballer and the schoolchild to whom I referred earlier, can view sports performances with a minimum of personal discomfort. We now have the facility to bring good quality sports programs directly into our lounge rooms. Provided that television sports programs are viewed intelligently by the viewer they are of actual or potential benefit to all Australians. Certainly there would be many cases in which too much viewing is taking place, but this could be due largely to a lack of viewing discipline. In general television sports programs are now an accepted feature of the Australian way of life. Perhaps it would be more accurate to say that they are an accepted feature in most of Australia. 
It is in this area that I wish to make some comments because some Australians are deliberately being denied the right to view some good sporting programs on television. Some areas of Australia, of course, do not have television reception, but it is not those to which I refer tonight. I refer to areas where there is television reception, where viewers have invested heavily in both black and white and colour television sets but who are denied the right to view some fine sporting programs. I shall shortly illustrate my argument by reference to some Queensland areas, but honourable senators representing other States, and I imagine honourable senators from the Northern Territory, would be able to provide similar illustrations in the areas they represent. 
Before mentioning anything further in relation to sporting broadcasts, however, I would like to make a few comments in relation to the television service in rural areas of Queensland. In some instances viewers have only one channel which they may view. This is the Australian Broadcasting Commission channel. One channel,  of course, is better than none, but it is easy to imagine the frustration of some viewers when repeat programs are transmitted. They cannot change to another channel. One resident of Hughenden in Queensland said to me recently: After the same program has been repeated three times I know it offby heart'. 
Returning to the theme of my comments this evening, I would like to quote from two letters which I received in Canberra today. One is a letter written to the Winton Shire Council by a member of the Queensland Legislative Assembly. The other letter I received came from the Winton Shire Council itself. These letters clearly outline the problems faced by people in western Queensland in relation to sporting broadcasts. They also outline possible solutions to those problems. The first letter was one which had actually been sent to the Winton Shire Council from the member for Gregory in the Queensland Parliament. This letter reads: 
It is with concern Tor the people of Central Queensland that I write to your Council for assistance by way of concerted protest to the ABC regarding future telecasts of international sporting events being made to people of our area. 
It was through efforts last week to have the recent football test between Australia and England televised to Western areas that 1 learned that the ABC's attitude is now that, to use their own words- they are not going to get the commercial stations off the hook regarding telecasts of sporting functions- when they have been granted sole television rights. 
Channel 7 (football) and Channel 9 (tennis and cricket) have indicated their consent to allow the ABC to beam into areas which are not covered by their network, but the ABC states emphatically they will not accept responsibility. Therefore, in the future, we cannot anticipate the opportunity of anyone to view these sporting events in inland areas. 
Your co-operation and support in lodging protests through the ABC Manager and the local Member and Senators would be greatly appreciated. 
The other letter was written by the Winton Shire  Clerk.  Copies of this letter were probably received today by all honourable senators representing Queensland. It reads: 
Dear  Sir, re:  Television- Sporting Programmes 
It is with feelings of utter disgust and astonishment, that this Council reads of the rulings given by the Australian Broadcasting Commission in relation to the televising, of future International Sporting Events, to the people of Inland Australia. (See attached letter from W. H. Glasson, M.L.A. Member for Gregory, Queensland). 
Does the Commission assert that such people are less than second rate Citizens of Australia and are therefore not worthy of having such events televised to the major portion of our Country? 
Even though Commercial Enterprise has captured the sole television rights to these events, and we speak of Channels 7 (Football) and 9 (Tennis and Cricket), these stations have offered their consent; to allow the Commission to beam such programmes into the Inland areas, not serviced by them, and it is the considered opinion of this Council that the Commission should accept the offer gratefully and sincerely. 
The televising of such events would eliminate a few of the continual repeat shows televised by the Commission, which after the second repeat are completely useless in the viewer's opinion and an utter waste of time. 
The Commission does have direct televising of some golf and other sports and has films of many others so why must it take the attitude of sour grapes over the good fortune of Commercial Stations. 
It is requested that you.  Sir, assert  through the Federal Parliament, that the Commission accept its responsibility and televise to the people of Australia such International Sporting Events and so allow us to enjoy our leisure hours instead of having to suffer the viewing of repeat after repeat of shows, some thirty years old, or alternatively switching off our Television sets. 
Thank you in anticipation of your complete support in this matter. Your faithfully, 
Scrimgeour, 
Shire Clerk 
The Channel 7 football telecasts to which the Winton Shire referred are of the series of rugby league tests between Australia and England and between Australia and France. The first two Australia versus England tests were played on 2 1 October and 5 November. The third is to be played on 18 November. The two Australia versus France tests are still to be played, the first on 26 November and the second on 10 December. These tests are shown through the Seven network and then later through certain commercial television stations in country areas. I am informed that in Queensland television stations in Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton and Townsville have accepted the programs for later transmission. The cricket which was attributed to Channel 9 in the Winton Shire Council 's letter is the World Series cricket. I believe that the tennis referred to was the Wimbledon championships. The World Series cricket will be shown on Australian television in December this year and January next year. The Wimbledon championships were shown in July this year. The letter from the Winton Shire Council stated that the Seven network offered its football program to the Australian Broadcasting Commission for transmission in inland areas. I tried to check this today but was unable to obtain definite confirmation. All I can do at this stage is accept the Council's assertion and the assertion of the State member for Gregory.I have no reason to reject that information. 
I was able to establish today that the Nine network did offer the Wimbledon championships to the ABC for screening in rural areas but that the ABC did not accept the offer. In Queensland there was some coverage of the Wimbledon championships on commercial television in areas outside Brisbane. These areas were 
Maryborough and Townsville. Those who are aware of the difficulties existing between World Series cricket and establishment cricket would not be surprised to learn that the Nine network did not offer World Series cricket to the ABC. So far, however, it has been accepted for showing in Rockhampton in Queensland. The information which has been made available to me, therefore, is that there were and will be significant sporting events which could have been shown by the ABC in remote areas. For some reason the ABC has chosen to deny country viewers the opportunity to enjoy these events. 
What was the reason for doing so? Honourable senators will recall that today  Senator Martin  asked a question on this matter during Question Time.  Senator Chaney  in reply seemed to suggest that financial considerations precluded the ABC from accepting the commercial networks' offers. After looking at the two Appropriation Bills which are under consideration I find it quite conceivable that financial considerations were the cause. The vote for the ABC in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) in constant money terms is 3.8 per cent less this year than it was last year. It is from this vote that payment would have to be made to the commercial networks for the sporting programs I have mentioned. It may be that this direct cut in funds for the ABC resulted in people in remote areas being deprived of the opportunity to view significant sporting events. If this is so, as it appears to be, it is shameful. I hold that there is no reason why citizens who live in remote areas of Australia should be deprived of the opportunity to view significant sporting events. The isolation in many parts of Australia is sufficiently real without the deliberate withholding of interesting, educational and entertaining programs from people in these areas. 
I recognise that the ABC is independent in its programming and rightly so. Nevertheless I have a perhaps old fashioned view that the ABC should provide a service for the people of Australia. That service should not be confined to the capital and regional cities. Country towns and rural communities deserve similar consideration to that given to their city counterparts. Perhaps the ABC will take some action as a result of my comments this evening. Nevertheless, I urge the Government to use what influence it has to make sure that the necessary funds are made available to ensure that the ABC investigates the possibility of televising to the remote areas of Australia the sporting events to which I have referred this evening. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
Are details similar to those given in answer to Question No. 448 (Senate  Hansard,  9-10 June 1978; page 2822) now available for the financial year 1977-78; if so, what are they, if not, when will they become available. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 26 September 1978: 
1 ) What authority enables searches of passengers' hand luggage, and articles carried on passengers, at airports in Australia. 
What action is taken if a passenger refuses to submit himself or herself to a search. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
Were any motor vehicles carried by RAAF aircraft in relation to the visit of Princess Alexandra to Australia; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
Is there a definite risk of collision at Archerfield aerodrome, as stated in an article in the  Sunday Mail,  8 October 1978, headed 'A double Check for Air Safety'; if so, what steps are being taken to rectify the situation. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
Which Federal departments and authorities have adopted the recommendations on the standard: (a) fire hose coupling; and (b) hose sizes, which the Fire Board made at its meeting on 4 to 5 May 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
What were the 'over fifteen potential customer countries' to which the model bilateral safeguards agreement referred to in the Minister's answer to Question No. 689 (Senate  Hansard,  10 October 1978, page 1 178), was distributed. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
1 ) Did  Dr Judith  Wright, an Australian poet, comment, in the  Courier-Mail, 22  August 1978, that she was 'starving' and blamed an unfeeling education system and 'a pirate photocopying machine'? 
Can anything be done to protect the rights of Australian authors against the abuse of photocopying facilities outlined by  Dr Wright? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
Has the Minister discussed a work-sharing scheme with the  President  ofthe Queensland Confederation of Industry.  Mr A.  Willis; if so, (a) has the Minister or his Department investigated the scheme: and (b) what are the results of anysuch investigation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
1 ) In which newspapers did the advertisement 'Telecom dispute- Communications Crisis ' appear. 
What was the cost of the advertisement in each case. 
Did the advertisement appear in any place other than newspapers; if so, where did it appear, and what was the cost in each case. 
What was the total cost of placing this advertisement in newspapers or other media. 
Were there any costs other than those mentioned in (4); if so, what are the details of those costs. 
To what budget vote or appropriation did Telecom charge the cost of this advertisement. 
Did Telecom offer funds to the Australian Telecommunications Employees Association to similarly advertise its side of the dispute. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs aware that an additional premium of 20 per cent is payable by Queensland residents insured under the defence service homes insurance scheme but that an additional premium is not payable in any other part of Australia? Is it a fact that in Queensland for the year 1977-78 the excess of premiums received over claim payments was $607,472? Is it also a fact that in 1 977-78 Queensland had the second lowest ratio of all six States in terms of claim payments to net premiums? In view of the fact that in the past three years there has been an excess of premiums paid over claim payments in Queensland, when can Queensland residents expect the discriminatory additional premium of 20 per cent to be discontinued? 
Entering this debate after 11.15 p.m. I will be brief. I enter the debate to state my own position and to make it clear why I will vote the way I shall. Before mentioning that I say publicly that I am thankful to those people who wrote constructive letters to me. I started to reply to them but the sheer volume of the letters after a while exceeded the facilities of my office and I could not reply to them all. Like most of my colleagues in the Senate today I have listened to the debate with great interest. I entered the debate with an open mind and was prepared to listen to the arguments carefully to see which way I should vote on the matter. Of course, I had a certain philosophical background to the way I feel about the abortion issue. I will mention that shortly. But perhaps there was more to it than that. Therefore, I listened to the debate carefully. I must admit that when 1 listened to the legal advice first from one side and then from the other I was a little confused to hear the legally qualified people giving different views. At one stage during the day, thinking of the technicalities, I formed the opinion that I would support the motion to disallow the Ordinance. That is not now the case because I have listened carefully and, using the background of my experience, I am forced to believe that I cannot support the motion. 
Let me outline my personal opinion on the matter of abortion. As I have said, I had certain philosophical views on it. Personally I am opposed to the idea of abortion. That is just a personal view. I would not like to see the process of abortion carried out on a member of my family, for instance. Perhaps I would accept it if it happened but philosophically I would not like it. But I do acknowledge that there are others within the community who will seek out the facilities for an abortion and they will seek them out with their own conscience clear. Because of this I will always support the need for facilities for an abortion to be available in a community, provided those facilities are safe facilities. 
I think I am explaining my position clearly. Personally, I would not like to have a member of my family involved in the process of an abortion. On the other hand, I know that there are people who will seek out these facilities therefore they should be available because if they are not available these people will seek out facilities that are unsafe, which of course would be dangerous to their health. One has only to go into an establishment in Brisbane which refers people from Queensland to some parts of New South Wales were facilities are available for the termination of a pregnancy to understand that there will be a demand for such a service even if the facilities are not available. When one looks at the map on the wall in the office of this establishment in Brisbane one can see that people have travelled to New South Wales from the very north of Queensland to have a pregnancy terminated. 
Despite the cost involved, the demand is still there. 
Like most honourable senators. I have had some experience with people who have found themselves faced with the task of making a decision as to whether to continue with a pregnancy or have it terminated. Probably the most regrettable situation that I have experienced occurred when I was teaching in a secondary school. I saw students who were only about 15 or 16 years of age who had to seek facilities for an abortion. If those students were not able readily to obtain a service- where I was teaching they had to travel to Sydney- they would have obtained it in some other way. We probably all know of people who have tried unsafe methods of termination of pregnancy. From my background I have a fair understanding of the needs of some people for these facilities. Although I am opposed to abortion, I accept that the facilities must be made available and when these facilities are made available the decision is up to the conscience of the individual. I think that my personal view can be best expressed by a slogan that I once saw, and I think how true it .is: Abortion is a right but contraception is a responsibility. 
As far as I can see the facilities are available in the Australian Capital Territory for the termination of a pregnancy. This evening two honourable senators have quoted from report No. 26 of the Legislative Assembly Standing Committee on Education and Health. I will not quote from it at length because  Senator McAuliffe  has quoted significant parts of it. Not too long ago  Senator Douglas  McClelland quoted quite extensively from it. The part that interests me, the part that sways me in deciding the way I will vote this evening, is at page 38, paragraph 84, which points out that 1,106 applications were received by the Terminations Committee to 21 March 1 977. Of these, 24 applications were withdrawn, 49 were not approved and the rest were approved. As far as I can tell from this report, these terminations were carried out in Canberra at the Woden Valley Hospital. 
The honourable senator probably realises that usually I do not respond to interjections. As he probably knows, the reason I do not respond to interjections is that I am hard of hearing and I cannot hear them very often. I heard the honourable senator's interjection quite clearly so I shall respond to it. Yes, I am concerned about the 49 applications that were not approved, but at this stage I do not know why they were not approved. I imagine that they were not approved for some very sound reasons. Like the honourable senator, because we have to make a decision on this matter, I would like to know why they were not approved. The fact that so few were not approved seems to suggest to me that in those cases there must have been quite sound reasons for not approving them. So the facilities are available in the Australian Capital Teritory. In part, the Ordinance which the motion before us seeks to disallow states: 
A registered medical practitioner shall not carry out treatment for the termination of pregnancy otherwise than at a hospital conducted by the Capital Territory Health Commission. 
If we repealed that Ordinance theoretically it would mean that terminations of pregnancy could be carried out in places other than hospitals. I listened very carefully to the debate today. I was not in the chamber at all times, but 1 think I missed only very little of the debate. The part which I would have missed would have been when I was travelling from my office to this chamber because when 1 was not in the chamber I was listening to the debate on the intercom. I was not in the chamber when  Senator Baume  was speaking, but I did hear the whole of his speech. I was very impressed by the argument he put forward. I concede that  Senator Baume  has far better qualifications than I have for making a medical judgment on whether terminations should be carried out in hospitals or not in hospitals. I will have to make a decision when I vote on this issue in this chamber tonight. I must say that at this stage I cannot accept that it would be safe to terminate a pregnancy in a place other than a hospital. Because I cannot accept that, I cannot accept that this Ordinance should be disallowed. If it were disallowed the possibility of pregnancies being terminated in places other than hospitals would arise. 
In some respects I find myself in a very awkward position in having to say that I will vote against the disallowance of this Ordinance. I find myself in an awkward position not because I am following my conscience- that is not an awkward position for me. I am in an awkward position because I fully realise the zeal with which and the direct and sound way in which  Senator Ryan  has brought this matter before the Senate. I congratulate her for doing so. At this stage I cannot support the proposition. 
-I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That leave be given to introduce a Bill for an Act to alter the Constitution so as to enable a person holding an office of profit under the Crown to be chosen as a senator or as a member of the House of Representatives. 
I wish to make just one more comment and then follow that up with a question. During the course of the Committee proceedings, a number of questions were asked by members and we were advised that answers would be forthcoming. I notice from the transcript of proceedings that a number of questions that I asked have not yet received answers. Could we be assured that the answers will be forthcoming? 
During the proceedings of Estimates Committee A, I asked a question in relation to advertising at the Australian National University. I made some comments about advertising which was carried out when  Mr Whitlam  wished to advertise for a research assistant. It was stated in an answer that advertising for  Mr Whitlam  's research assistant was limited to the  Canberra Times  to ensure that the cost of filling the post was kept within the total sum allocated for  Mr Whitlam  's fellowship. Could I find out at this stage what the total sum was for  Mr Whitlam  's fellowship and whether any foresight had been used in relation to the fact that advertising was probably required for a position. Could I also be told whether a sum had been set aside within that fellowship for advertising? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
Has Qantas made any approaches to carry internal passengers from Brisbane, Sydney or Melbourne to either Darwin or Perth. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
Did a group of 22 young Queensland people undergo psychological tests at Canungra as pan of a selection procedure for 'Operation Drake' as outlined in the  Sunday Sun  of 1 October 1978; if so, were any Army personnel involved in the selection procedure and for what reason was the Canungra Army Training Centre used for the selection. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
Has the Minister had any investigations made of complaints in the  Sunday Mail  of I October 1978, by residents near the Archerfield airport of 'planes flying too low and too late in the evening, and about the dangers of formation flying'. 
I follow the comments of  Senator McLaren  and  Senator O'Byrne  in relation to the funds that were used by this Government to advertise its tax changes earlier this year. On 7 November I asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  this question: 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether taxpayers' funds were used to mount a publicity campaign earlier this year to explain income tax reductions. If taxpayers' funds were so used, does the Government plan to employ public funds to outline to the Australian people how it has now increased income tax rates? 

 Senator Carrick, in his reply, said in part: 
With regard to the first matter which  Senator Colston  raised, I remind him that he received full and detailed explanations on that matter. If he needs to have his mind refreshed, I draw his attention to the  Hansard  record of Estimates Committee A of which he was a member. 
Of course I was well aware, when I asked the question, what was in the records of Estimates Committee A. But the Minister decided not to include the particular figures in his answer. So I want to put the record straight with regard to the amount of money that was used by this Government to publicise its campaign to explain income tax reductions earlier this year. They were public funds that it used.  Senator McLaren  mentioned a figure of about $300,000. That $300,000 that he mentioned was made up of direct advertising and the cost of pamphlets and other publicity material. I wish to refer only to the direct advertising. During the course of the Estimates Committee proceedings, I sought a full list of the actual newspapers that ran the advertisements, the cost of each of the advertisements, the actual television and radio stations that ran the advertisements and the cost for each. This material has now been supplied to me. The total cost of the advertising, which used public funds to outline the Government's income tax reductions came to $236,148.25. So almost a quarter of a million dollars was used. 
It is interesting to look at the actual amounts spent with each of the newspapers throughout Australia. Honourable senators who decide to study the amounts will find it interesting as regards the particular area they represent. I should imagine that members of the House of Representatives would be interested in particular newspapers in their electorates. Let me just mention some of the costs- these are only some of the costs- in the area I represent which is in Queensland. On 31 January 1978, an advertisement appeared in the  Courier-Mail  in Brisbane. The cost of this was $1,111.32. In the Brisbane  Sunday Mail  on 29 January 1 978 there appeared an advertisement, the cost of which was $1,353.24. This is the type of money which was spent out of taxpayers' funds to publicise the income tax reductions. 
-The Government has not publicised those. I shall come to that point shortly. There were further insertions in the  Courier-Mail,  which cost an extra $1,534. The insertions in the Brisbane  Telegraph  cost $1,2 14. There was another one in the  Sunday Mail,  which must have been a rather small one as the cost was $171 
I now turn to the provincial Press in Queensland. There we see that there were insertions- and therefore costs- in the Bundaberg  News-Mail,  the Cairns  Post,  the  Queensland Times  at Ipswich, the Mackay  Daily Mercury,  and so we could go on. I have not counted them, but there must be about 20 provincial papers in Queensland in which there were insertions and therefore costs. There are pages and pages more of them, which I am sure will interest honourable senators from other States and also members of the House of Representatives when they see the money that was expended in their areas. Those who are interested could see how much was expended on radio in their areas. 
-I had thought that I would seek leave to incorporate it, but I shall not do so because I presume that these documents are incorporated in the proceedings of the Estimates Committee as they were given to me as replies. So they are public documents at the moment and therefore honourable senators will be able to refer to them, as will members of the House of Representatives. 

 - Senator McLaren says that nobody reads them. 
-One of the reasons why the public does not see them is that these sorts of things are not brought to the attention of the public. One of the reasons why I am relating this tonight is so that it is brought to the attention of honourable senators, members of the House of Representatives and the general public that over $250,000 of taxpayers' money was spent. That is the answer to the first part of the question that I asked. I did not receive a proper answer from the Minister. I am answering to the Senate tonight on his behalf, to illustrate how much money was spent. 
Honourable senators may remember that I asked a second question. This was alluded to by  Senator Douglas  McClelland a short time ago. The second question was: If taxpayers' funds were so used- and they were- does the Government plan to employ public funds to outline to the Australian people how it has now increased income tax rates? If we look at the reply  Senator Carrick  gave to me, we see that there is no reply to that second question, which indicates quite clearly that taxpayers' funds are not going to be used. This is a double standard. If we employ taxpayers' funds to show how income tax rates have been reduced, surely the same sort of thing must happen when income tax rates are increased. They have been increased as from this month. I would rather have seen what has happened now happen last February, with the Government being honest and using its own funds to publicise what it thought were income tax reductions. However, seeing that the Government did use public funds then, it should use them now. It is for this reason that I outlined why I think it was important for  Senator McLaren  and  Senator O'Byrne  to outline the points that they outlined. The fact is that over $250,000 was spent in February; but suddenly everything becomes very quiet when income tax rates are increased and not one cent will be spent to outline the fact that this Government has increased income tax rates in this Budget. 

 - Senator McLaren mentioned the possibility of a one per cent error in some employment statistics. I am beginning to wonder whether this error could not be even higher than one per cent. During the meeting of the Estimates Committee I asked some questions in relation to the 1976 census of population and housing. It is well known now that all the forms that were filled out might not have been considered by the Australian Bureau of Statistics when the compilation of that census was being carried out because apparently only a sample of those forms was considered. During the meeting of the Estimates Committee I asked what sort of error there would be if only a sample were considered and part of the information that was given to me in relation to sampling errors stated: 
The huge sample size (in excess of 6.5 million persons) used to derive figures for the 1976 Census ensures an adequate representation of all components of the Australian population and guarantees the production of reliable estimates for the many minority groups of interest to users. For example, given an estimate of 1,000 persons aged 15-64 years in a particular area there is a 95 per cent chance that the actual number is within the range 950-1050. 
It seems to me that this indicates the possibility of an error of at least 5 per cent even though there were 6.5 million persons in the sample size. I wonder whether the - 
Plus or minus 5 per cent which is the same as saying that there is a possibility of a 5 per cent error- either way. I am wondering whether in fact the money that was saved, in comparison with the money that already had been spent on the 1976 census, was worth while saving when we take into account this possible error of 5 per cent. Of course, this provides a 95 per cent surety, and if one wanted to bring it up to 99 per cent which is, I presume, another benchmark that one can use in statistics, the error could be greater. However, let us leave it at a 5 per cent error and look at the amount of money that was saved. The total expenditure attributable to the 1976 census was $14.8m. Collection took $8.2m, processing took $6.1m and other expenditure, including publicity, took $0.5m, giving a total of $ 14.8m. Only in respect of processing was there a saving and it was brought about by the sampling technique that was used. The savings brought about by processing only 50 per cent of schedules was approximately $2m, which is about 12 per cent of what the total cost would have been if all the information had been processed. 
Sometimes one wonders whether savings that are made in this way are really worth while and I am wondering whether this saving was worth while in this situation. The saving of $2m when $ 14.8m was spent has resulted in our not having accurate statistics from this census. The information that was given to me in response to the question which I asked about this matter contained the following sentence: 
The ABS has released a detailed technical information paper SAMPLING ERRORS ASSOCIATED WITH CENSUS ESTIMATES (Catalogue No. 2129.0) for users of census data (copy attached). 
I point out that the copy was not attached to the information that was given to me. 
The Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  spoke in terms of honesty and awareness. In light of that fact, I remind him that he spoke of a surcharge of 1.5 per cent. It is my understanding that the surcharge was 1 . 5 cents in the dollar on every rate of income tax. This means a greater rate in terms of percentages than 1.5 per cent. It depended greatly on the number of deductions a person had, the size of his income, the size of his family and so on. I have seen increases in tax ranging up to 10 per cent. The mean increase seems to be somewhere about 4 per cent. Let us just set the record straight. It is not a 1.5 per cent increase; it was an increase of 1.5 cents on every rate of tax that was applicable before the surcharge was introduced. 
I seek leave to move the second reading of the Bill forthwith. 
I move: 
That leave be given to introduce a Bill for an Act to alter the Constitution so as to enable a person holding an office of profit under the Crown to be chosen as a senator or as a member of the House of Representatives. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill presented, and read a first time. 
The Committee will now proceed to the consideration of the votes in group D. Is it the wish of the Committee that we take the votes of group D together? 
-I present the following petition from 355 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble Petition respectfully showeth: 
That the decision of the Australian Government to depart from its 1975 election promise, a promise re-affirmed during the 1977 election campaign, that pensions would be increased twice-yearly in line with increases in the C.P.I-, will seriously add to the economic burdens now borne by those citizens who are wholly or mainly dependent on their pensions. 
Your petitioners are impelled by this fact to call upon the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to review the abovementioned decision, and to determineThat pensions will be increased twice yearly in line with rises in the C.P.I, as promised by the Prime Minister in his 1975 policy speech. 
Your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. By way of preface, I mention that my question is prompted by an actual incident involving a recipient of unemployment benefit. Are persons receiving unemployment benefit who have had a win at the races or who have collected prizes at bingo or on poker machines obliged to record their win in statements of income required fortnightly by the Department of Social Security? If so, how many people does the Minister expect will lose their unemployment benefit because they backed Arwon last week in the Melbourne Cup? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on  25  October 1 978: 
Did a report in the Sunday  Sun,  22 October 1978, claim that confidential Social Security documents were being dumped at Inala, Queensland, in a hessian litter bag, accessible to the public. 
Has the matter been investigated. If so, what are the results of the investigation. 
-I present the following petition from 41 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble Petition respectfully showeth: 
That the decision of the Australian Government to depart from its 1 975 election promise, a promise re-affirmed during the 1977 election campaign, that pensions would be increased twice-yearly in line with increases in the CPI, will seriously add to the economic burdens now borne by those citizens who are wholly or mainly dependent on their pensions. 
Your petitioners are impelled by this fact to call upon the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to review the abovementioned decision, and to determineThat pensions will be increased twice yearly in line with rises in the CPI as promised by the Prime Minister in his 1975 policy speech. 
Your petitioners, as in duty bound, will every pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. He would be well aware of the fact that in many rural areas telephone subscribers do not have access to subscriber trunk dialling facilities. I ask: Will the new economy rate, which will apply after 26 November to STD calls made between 9 p.m. and 8 a.m. every day, also apply to booked long distance calls? If not, will the Government consider requesting Telecom Australia to introduce the equivalent reductions for booked long distance calls made from areas where STD is not available? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
Did Trans-Australia Airlines (TAA) receive any requests from the Commonwealth Police during the period 1976-78 for passenger lists or names of passengers; if so, what has been TAA's response to the requests. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
Have Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia each grounded a Boeing 727-100 series aircraft in anticipation of a passenger slump, as stated by Greg Hartung in the Australian, 1 October 1978. If so, is the Minister satisfied that both airlines have sufficient capacity of aircraft in use to provide adequate service to the public. 
I present the following petition from 524 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble Petition respectfully showeth: 
That the decision of the Australian Government to depart from its 1975 election promise, a promise re-affirmed during the 1977 election campaign, that pensions would be increased twice-yearly in line with increases in the CPI, will seriously add to the economic burdens now borne by those citizens who are wholly or mainly dependent on their pensions. 
Your petitioners are impelled by this fact to call upon the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to review the abovementioned decision, and to determineThat pensions will be increased twice yearly in line with rises in the CPI as promised by the prime minister in his 1975 policy speech. 
Your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to an information brochure for Medibank Private dated November 1978, which states, amongst other things: 
Benefits on the 100 per cent medical table may be reduced to 75 per cent and benefits on the Extras tables may be refused, for a pre-existing condition. 
Does this mean that Medibank Private may refuse membership of its 100 per cent table and its Extras table? If this is so, does this action have the blessing of the Minister for Health? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
Has the Prime Minister stayed overnight on Thursday Island since 1 1 November 1975. If so: (a) when; (b) where; and (c) what was the cost of the Prime Minister's accommodation. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
1 ) Which members of the Federal Parliament attended a discussion in the Papua New Guinea- Australia border region during the week ending Saturday 4 November 1978. 
What was the itinerary of these members from 30 October to 3 November 1978, including their mode of transport and place of accommodation. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 November 1978: 
Is sickness benefit paid to patients in certain wards at Wolston Park Hospital, Queensland. If so, to patients in which wards is sickness benefit (a) paid; and (b) not paid. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
Which clauses in the Air Navigation Act 1920 and/or the Air Navigation Regulations made under the Air Navigation Act: 
permit searches to be made at Australian airports of hand luggage and articles carried by passengers; and 
allow carriage to be denied if a passenger refuses to submit to a search. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
Has the Australian Housing Corporation reported for the financial years 1975-76, 1976-77 and 1977-78. If not, when is it expected that it will report for these years. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
Has the Minister investigated a suggested scheme whereby the Queensland State Government Insurance Office Building Society may issue credit cards for its customers (The  Sunday Mail,  22 October 1978). If so, what are the results of the investigation. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
Can a mother lose $14 from her first family allowance cheque because her baby was an 'odd number', as indicated in a report in the  Sunday Sun,  22 October 1978. If so, what are the conditions of payment of family allowance which cause this to occur. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
Has the Federal Government warned Queensland employers that 'industrial rot has set in here because of the apprenticeship drought,' as stated in the  Sunday Sun,  1 October 1978. If so, what recommendations have been made to Queensland employers in relation to the engagement of apprentices. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1 978: 
What criteria are used by the Department of Social Security to determine whether two persons of the opposite sex who are living together are living on 'a bona fide domestic basis analogous to that of a husband and wife'. (See answer to question 682, Senate  Hansard,  19 September 1978, page 734) 
-I direct a question to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity either as Minister for Education or as the Minister representing the Treasurer. I ask: Is it correct that postgraduate awards from non-Commonwealth sources are exempt from income tax? If so, does the Government intend to remove that tax exemption just as it did in this year's Budget for Commonwealth postgraduate awards? Does the Government expect that if the present differential system remains a number of students will try to relinquish their Commonwealth postgraduate award in order to go into a university-funded scheme? 
-by leave- Most of us who were members of the parliamentary delegation that visited Japan went there with some preconceived ideas about the Japanese, their way of life and their economy. Some of those preconceptions were confirmed but others were not. I think that two weeks certainly is insufficient time in which to become an expert on another country, but it was sufficient time for us to gain some insight into the various aspects of the Japanese way of life. I am sure that the members of the delegation who made this visit in July of this year will continue to have a long association with our major trading partner as a result of this visit. I am sure also that the association between the members themselves and Japan will continue. I would like to quote just one part of the report and comment briefly on it. The part that I would like to quote is concerned with the recommendations on page 27 of the report. One recommendation reads as follows: 
The Australian Government, in conjunction with the State Governments, should determine and provide the additional facilities and resources necessary to ensure the much wider teaching of the Japanese language and other Asian languages in Australian schools. 
I am very firmly of the opinion that we in Australia should make a great effort to encourage language teaching- not necessarily in the languages that traditionally have been taught in Australian schools, but especially in South East Asian languages, and amongst those I include the Japanese language. I think, too, that we should have a look at providing these teaching facilities not only in the secondary schools, where traditionally languages have been taught, but also in the primary schools, where children are very adept at learning languages if they are given the proper opportunity. 
Let us look at the official figures on language teaching in Australia. For the information of those honourable senators who are interested, I point out that a report termed 'Teaching of Migrant Languages in Schools' was recently before this Parliament. On pages 17 and 38 of that report there are some firm statistics which show how we in Australia are lagging in providing opportunities for students to study the languages of our near neighbours. We see from those tables that both in primary schools and in secondary schools the languages that are taught the most are the traditional languages of French and German. There is also fairly extensive teaching of other European languages such as Italian, but very little of the languages of South East Asian countries and very little of the Japanese language. 
The hospitality that was shown to the delegation by our Japanese hosts was almost overwhelming at times. It was hospitality which one could not fault. I take this opportunity to thank our Japanese hosts for all that they did for us. I trust that some day I will have the opportunity to return the hospitality which was shown to the delegation. 
We are debating the Queensland Grants (Special Assistance) Bill 1978. 1 pointed out last year when we were debating a similar Bill that as a Queensland public servant I assisted in the preparation of cases that were put before the Grants Commission. These cases were considered by the Commission when it was deciding what, if any, financial assistance should be made available to the State of Queensland. On one occasion, I appeared as a witness before the Commission. Because of my association with the Commission as a Queensland State public servant both in the preparation of cases to go before the Commission and as a witness before the Commission, I have taken a special interest in the Commission's activities. As the 45th report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission has specifically referred to Queensland, the State that I represent, I have even more interest. 
The main purpose of the Queensland Grant (Special Assistance) Bill 1978, now being debated by the Senate, is to authorise payments to Queensland of $2 1 .7m in special grants. These grants are in accordance with the recommendations set out in the 45th report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I have already made passing reference to that report. At this stage I mention that the Grants Commission was appointed on 17 July 1933. It made its first report on 25 July the following year, covering applications made by South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. The fact that the Commission has been in existence since 1933 makes the record of the Parliament's acceptance of its recommendations remarkable. It is well to recall some words of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in his second reading speech. He said: 
The Commission's recommendations in relation to the special grants arrangements have been adopted by the Parliament each year since the Commission's inception and the Government considers that they should be accepted on this occasion. 
The fact that the grants have been adopted each year by the Parliament is a remarkable achievement and one which we should continue to follow unless exceptional circumstances occur. As a senator for Queensland, I certainly support the payment of this grant, but if I were a senator from any other State or, if this grant were for another State, I would still support it because of the way in which the grants are determined. Perhaps on some occasions we have reservations about the payment of a sum of this magnitude. Indeed, at a later stage, I shall mention some of the reservations that I have. But we must remember the basis on which the Commission makes its recommendations. Once we do that, and study the Commission's current report, we realise that the recommendations should be accepted. 
The existence of the Commonwealth Grants Commission acknowledges the fact that some States suffer financial disabilities by comparison with New South Wales and Victoria, often referred to in this context as the two standard States. In other words, it acknowledges the fact that within our Federal system, there is financial inequality among the States. The general principle of the Commonwealth Grants Commission is to investigate that financial inequality when a request is made for it to do so. It is accepted that its recommendations will strive to ensure that the people in the State investigated will enjoy similar services to those provided to their fellow Australians in the standard States of New South Wales and Victoria. 
One of the great strengths of our Federation is that we can minimise the inequalities among the States using, amongst other measures, the Commonwealth Grants Commission. On the other hand, it is difficult for the Commonwealth to minimise inequalities within States. It is easy to understand why Queensland is at a disadvantage in relation to the two standard States. I shall outline some of the reasons. If one examines the population of Queensland and the populations of New South Wales and Victoria, one will immediately see a disadvantage. The population of Queensland at 30 June 1978 was 2.1 million; the population of Victoria was 3.8 million; and the population of New South Wales was 5 million. One disadvantage that occurs as a consequence of the lower population in Queensland in comparison with Victoria and New South Wales is that Queensland has access to less taxation revenue. 
Queensland not only has a smaller population but also has a larger area. It is the second largest State in the Commonwealth. The area of Queensland is 1.7 million square kilometres, that of Victoria 0.2 million square kilometres, and New South Wales 0.8 million square kilometres. In some respects, it is easier to provide services for a smaller population, But when that population is distributed over a large area, the cost of providing those services becomes greater. Additionally, it is well to recognise that Queensland is a highly decentralised State. There are major centres of population extending from Brisbane to Cairns. To mention just a few by way of illustration, such centres are Maryborough, Bundaberg, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville. It is worth while noting that there are also some reasonable centres of population north of Cairns. 
The vast distances in Queensland are a function of the State's large area. If one travels by air from Brisbane to Cairns one travels 1,435 kilometres. This is a long distance when compared with distances in the standard States of New South Wales and Victoria. One can go from Brisbane to another major city in Queensland and travel even further than the Brisbane to Cairns distance which I have just mentioned. The distance from Brisbane to Mount Isa by air is 1,580 kilometres. Recently I travelled from Brisbane to Thursday Island, and even this does not take one close to the northern border. The air distance for this journey was 2, 185 kilometres. 
The fact that such vast distances are involved in moving to the major centres of population in Queensland put it at a disadvantage in providing services equivalent to those provided in the standard States. When the Commonwealth Grants Commission examines these factors it draws attention to the fact that some States must have their income supplemented because of what are termed 'revenue needs 'or 'expenditure needs'. 
Part of the 45th report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission refers to these two types of need. Paragraph 1.5 states: 
To enable a claimant State to function at a standard not appreciably below that of other States without having to levy taxation and other charges of greater severity than in those other States, its revenue needs to be supplemented because of: 
Its lower capacity to raise taxes and other revenue; and 
Its need to incur higher costs in order to provide comparable governmental services. 
These ate referred to as revenue needs and expenditure needs respectively. 
The Commonwealth Grants Commission, in determining these revenue and expenditure needs, conducts hearings at which it is able to elicit information about relevant disabilities which confront those who administer the State. Naturally, the Commission also uses statistical data available to it. In determining these needs the Grants Commission compares the claimant State with the two standard States. Queensland is now the only claimant State to the Grants Commission. On 30 September 1971 Queensland applied for a special grant for the year 1971-72 and it has been a claimant State ever since. 
It is relevant to mention the other nonstandard States and indicate when they ceased to be claimant States. South Australia ceased to be a claimant State on 1 July 1975. This was as a result of an agreement between the Commonwealth and South Australian governments in relation to the transfer of the non-metropolitan South Australian railway system. Tasmania made, but later withdrew, applications for special grants for 1974-75 and 1975-76. In reality, Tasmania ceased to be a claimant State in 1 974. Tasmania 's withdrawal as a claimant State was the result of other additional finances being made available to Tasmania. That State has now applied for special assistance in respect of 1977-78 and the matter has been referred to the Commission- The only other non-standard state which I have not mentioned is Western Australia. It was last a claimant State in 1 968-69. 
Earlier, I mentioned that the Grants Commission determines revenue needs and expenditure needs for a claimant State. What the Grants Commission assessed to be the revenue needs for Queensland for 1976-77 is shown in its 45th report. Queensland's revenue needs were grouped under three main headings- taxation, land revenue and rnining revenue. Under the heading of taxation, the Grants Commission assessed the revenue need for Queensland as being $ 108,724,000. 1 refer chapter 4 of the 45th report to those honourable senators who are interested in how this figure was determined. 
With land revenue and mining revenue there are significant differences. The Grants Commission considered that in these two cases there was a negative need. In other words, Queensland had an above standard revenue capacity for land and rnining. Its capacity to raise finance in these two areas was higher than that of the standard states of New South Wales and Victoria. For land revenue there was a negative need of $8,508,000. For mining revenue the negative need was even greater, namely $44,956,000. So from the assessed taxation revenue need these two negative needs were subtracted. The assessed revenue need for Queensland thus was a net $55,260,000. 
The expenditure needs for Queensland were also grouped under a number of headings. These were social services, business undertakings, debt charges and another group called other net expenditure. The assessed expenditure needs were all positive; that is, Queensland was at a disadvantage in all four cases in relation to the two standard States. 
The total assessed expenditure need for Queensland was $110,458,000. The revenue needs and the expenditure needs are added to determine the total needs. But that total is not the grant which is recommended by the Grants Commission. From that total has to be subtracted the amounts made available by way of other Commonwealth Government assistance. This was done in the case of Queensland to determine a total need of $23. 7m. It is on the basis of the $23.7m that this Bill is before the Parliament. An advance grant of $ 18m had been paid some time before. This meant that a total completion grant for 1976-77 of $5.7m is payable. 
I mentioned earlier that the total amount recommended for payment by the Grants Commission was $2 1.7m. The $16m difference between the $5.7m which I have just mentioned and the $2 1.7m consists of an advance grant for 1978-79. Before proceeding with some other general comments, I indicate that I am pleased to be able to support this recommendation of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I am especially pleased that the recommendation is for a grant of $2 1 .7m to Queensland. 
Last year when the Queensland Grant (Special Assistance) Bill 1977 was being debated, there were some outrageous statements on both sides of the chamber about Queensland's right to receive funds following the Commonwealth Grants Commission's 44th report. I am convinced that those statements would not have been forthcoming if a detailed study of the Commission's report had been made. Certainly, one can criticise the administration of the Queensland Government, and before I conclude today I intend to do so. But that administration should, as I shall shortly argue, be regarded as something quite different from the grant being debated. I invite any honourable senator who this year intends to criticise the payment of this $2 1.7m to Queensland to make a detailed study of the 45th report before he or she does so. I am convinced that if any objective study of the report is made, criticism will not be forthcoming. 
During last year's debate to which I referred a minute or so ago, there was a suggestion that Queensland, in receiving assistance under the Commonwealth Grants Commission was not pulling its weight in the Federation. In case a similar suggestion is made today, I outline the contribution which Queensland makes to Australian export earnings. Although Queensland represents only 15.2 per cent of Australia's total population, it contributes 22.9 per cent of Australia's export earnings. I do not intend to pursue this matter in detail but to illustrate my argument I simply seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table entitled 'Queensland's Overseas Exports Compared to Australian Total 1977-78' which shows in greater detail the export contribution made by Queensland. This table was prepared for me by the statistical section of the Parliamentary Library. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="079232197811244_55_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Senate. As I read the 45th report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission I was interested to see that Queensland was credited with an allowance of $ 1.99m for special difficulties in the provision of police services. This allowance probably attracted my attention because I once worked in the Queensland Police Department and I have some knowledge of the special difficulties which are associated with the provision of police services in Queensland. Earlier I mentioned that I had some reservations about the $2 1.7m grant. Certainly they are minor reservations, but reservations nonetheless. Those reservations were evoked because of this $ 1.99m allowance for police services. Along with other honourable senators, I have some concern that the funds provided to the Queensland Government from this Government are used responsibly. I am absolutely certain, however, that the Queensland Government is being totally irresponsible in its spending of funds in relation to the Queensland Police Department. As we all know, the Premier of Queensland has continued to use battalions of police to control- 'harass' may be a more apt word- protesters who believe that they have the right to march when voicing their protest. Recently he admitted that his use of the police to confront protesters had probably cost about $lm. This raises in my mind the question whether we should be providing funds when they are squandered in this way. In some respects, however, this may not be a question to which we have to pay great attention. I am certain that if the Premier of Queensland continues to act in this way the electors of Queensland will provide him with such a rebuff that he will no longer be Premier. When that occurs the assistance provided under the Grants Commission will have the opportunity to be spent much more wisely. It is with pleasure that I announce that I support the Bill. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make an alteration to section 44 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia. The alteration will enable persons holding an office of profit under the Crown to be chosen as senators or as members of the House of Representatives. Before discussion the purpose of this Bill, it is pertinent to examine the provisions of section 44 of the Constitution. Under the heading of 'disqualification', section 44 reads: 
Any person who- (i.) Is under any acknowledgement of allegiance, obedience, or adherence to a foreign power, or is a subject or a citizen or entitled to the rights or privileges of a subject or a citizen of a foreign power or (ii.) Is attained of treason, or has been convicted and is under sentence, or subject to be sentenced, for any offence punishable under the law of the Commonwealth or of a State by imprisonment for one year or longer, or (iti.) Is an undischarged bankrupt or insolvent: or (iv.) Holds any office of profit under the Crown, or any pension payable during the pleasure of the Crown out of any of the revenues of the Commonwealth: or (v.) Has any direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any agreement with the Public Service of the Commonwealth otherwise than as a member and in common with the other members of an incorporated company consisting of more than twenty-five persons: shall be incapable of being chosen or of sitting as a senator or a member of the House of Representatives. 
But sub-section (iv) does not apply to the office of any of the Queen's Ministers of State for the Commonwealth, or of any of the Queen 's Ministers for a State, or to the receipt of pay, half pay, or a pension, by any person as an officer or member of the Queen's navy or army, or to the receipt of pay as an officer or member of the naval or military forces of the Commonwealth by any person whose services are not wholly employed by the Commonwealth. 
The Constitution Alteration (Holders of Offices of Profit) Bill 1978 relates to sub-section (iv) of section 44. An effect of sub-section (iv) is that any member of the Commonwealth or State public service who seeks election to the Federal Parliament must resign his Public Service appointment prior to nomination. If the public servant does not resign, he continues, of course, to hold an office of profit under the Crown. Thus, if he is successful in the election, he runs the risk of being declared ineligible to sit in the Senate or in the House of Representatives. 
Very few would argue that a public servant should be eligible to sit in either the Senate or the House of Representatives. The holding of an office of profit under the Crown is a traditional form of disqualification for membership of houses of parliament established on the British pattern. It is quite conceivable that employment by the Crown or in the Public Service could affect the independence of a member of parliament. 
On one hand, the practice that a public servant should not be eligible to sit in the Senate or House of Representatives is a sound one. It prevents a degree of potential conflict of interest from arising. On the other hand, it does restrict the ability of the public servant to contest a Federal election. Other Austraiian adults enjoy the freedom of nominating for political office without being required, by virtue of constitutional provisions, to resign from their current employment. The public servant, however, is required to resign his position before contesting a federal election. Thus one of the basic tenets of Australian democracy, namely the freedom of the individual to offer himself for public service in the Parliament, is severely limited for public servants. 
One important consequence of this situation is that there are probably many highly qualified public servants who could make a significant contribution to this Parliament but who choose not to seek election because of the possibility of losing their livelihood in merely attempting to enter Parliament. It is all too easy to say that the public servant who desires to serve his country in Parliament should accept the risk of losing his employment. But responsibility tugs hard at the person with a family and spouse to support. The prospect of throwing away job security and all that means for one's family must be too daunting for many public servants even to contemplate a possible parliamentary career. 
I have previously outlined in this Parliament the limited opportunities for re-appointment to the Commonwealth and State public services for public servants who have resigned to contest a federal election. For a more detailed discussion of this topic, I refer honourable senators to Senate  Hansard  of 29 May 1 978, pages 20 1 9 and 2020. At this stage, it is simply sufficient to say that in the Commonwealth Public Service or the public service of any State or Territory there is no right of re-appointment. Certainly the public servant in Australia who unsuccessfully contests a federal election may be re-appointed but it is important that the word 'may' be stressed. It is clear that there is no automatic right of reappointment. I am convinced that this Parliament is all the poorer because many highly capable public servants do not, due to the restrictions of section 44 of the Constitution, even consider the prospect of standing for Federal Parliament. 
In terms of justice for public servants themselves, it is necessary to do something about a system which fetters their right to nominate for Federal Parliament. In terms of the contribution that Parliament can make to the democratic process, it is important that each person in Australia should, as far as humanly possible, be able to contest a place in the national legislature. Thus we must ensure that public servants are not deterred by unnecessary constraints from offering themselves for parliamentary service. 
This Bill is aimed towards that end. It allows a person who holds an office of profit under the Crown to be chosen as a senator or a member of the House of Representatives. The Bill further provides, however, that a person who holds an office of profit under the Crown and who has been chosen as a senator or member is not able to receive any allowances or to sit in the Parliament. In other words, he must resign his public service appointment before becoming eligible to take a seat in the Parliament and to draw salary and allowances as a member of Parliament. 
The question could be raised about what would happen if a public servant was elected and did not resign his public servant appointment. It appears that sections 20 and 38 of the Constitution would cover such a situation. Under these sections, the place of a senator or member becomes vacant if, without the permission of his house of the Parliament, he fails for two consecutive months to attend Parliament. 
The alteration to the Constitution as outlined by this Bill would require amendments to some existing Commonwealth and State legislation. These amendments will be necessary because some existing legislation is based on the assumption that public servants cannot be elected to the Federal Parliament whilst still holding their public service appointment. These amendments, however, may be made readily by the Commonwealth and State parliaments. No further constitutional changes are required to allow the necessary complementary legislative amendments to be made. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 21 November 1978: 
Is a subsidy paid to a helicopter service in Torres Strait If so: (a) what are the details of the subsidy; and (b) what priority is given to calls on the helicopter service. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
When may I expect to receive advice in relation to the question I asked in the Senate on 15 November 1978 concerning the obligation of unemployment benefit recipients to record winnings in statements of income  (Hansard,  page 2013). 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Why is sickness benefit not payable in some areas at Wolston Park Hospital when it is payable in other areas (see answer to Senate Question No. 1010). 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
When does the Minister intend to make the statement, relating to unemployment benefit and family allowances, to which she referred when answering a question without notice on 1 1 October 1978 (Senate  Hansard,  page 1 197). 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Are unemployment benefits withheld from people who move to an area of poor employment opportunities. If so, which areas in Queensland can be said to have good employment prospects and to which areas in Queensland could people on unemployment benefits move in search of work without the risk of losing their unemployment benefits. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Are any benefits other than sickness benefits payable under the Social Services Act 1947 to patients in certain wards at Wolston Park Hospital, Queensland. If so, (a) what are these benefits; (b) to patients in which wards are the benefits (i) paid; and (ii) not paid. 
If the benefits are payable in some wards but not in others, what are the reasons for this. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
1 ) Is it now possible for the Administrative Appeals Tribunal to hear appeals against decisions made by Social Security Appeals Tribunals. 
If not, when is it likely that the Administrative Appeals Tribunal will be able to hear such appeals. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
Are RAAF aircraft used to assist State Police forces to apprehend persons suspected of having committed criminal offences. If so: (a) who authorises such use; and (b) is a charge made for the use of the aircraft and the RAAF personnel involved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
Did  Dr N.  A. Breitkreutz claim in a letter published in the  Sunday Mail,  29 October 1 978, that the Medibank computer was inactive for various periods due to deliberate action on the part of some medical practitioners. If so; (a) does the claim have substance; and (b) what are the details of any such interference with the operations of the Medibank computer. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
Are passengers departing from Cooktown on Ansett Airlines flights permitted to check in their luggage at Cooktown Airport. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
What conditions must be fulfilled by residents of Papua New Guinea to enable their entry to Australian islands in the Torres Strait. 
Are these conditions currently being complied with. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Did the Minister and each member of his party of six officials pay the Departure Tax when they travelled from Weipa to Daru on 2 November 1978. If so, where and when was the tax paid. If not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
1 ) Which post offices have opened in New South Wales since 1 January 1 970, and on what date did each office commence operations. 
Which post offices have permanently closed in New South Wales since 1 January 1970, and when did each closure occur. 
Which post offices in New South Wales have been renamed since 1 January 1970; what was the original name of each office; when was each office renamed; and what is its new name. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
Which post offices have opened in the Australian Capital Territory since 1 January 1970, and on what date did each office commence operations. 
Which post offices have permanently closed in the Australian Capital Territory since 1 January 1970, and when did each closure occur. 
Which post offices in the Australian Capital Territory have been renamed since I January 1970; what was the original name of each office; when was each office renamed; and what is its new name. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
1 ) Which post offices have opened in Western Australia since I January 1970, and on what date did each office commence operations. 
Which post offices have permanently closed in Western Australia since 1 January 1970, and when did each closure occur. 
Which post offices in Western Australia have been renamed since 1 January 1970; what was the original name of each office; when was each office renamed; and what is its new name. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
1 ) Which post offices have opened in Queensland since 1 January 1 970, and on what date did each office commence operations. 
Which post offices have permanently closed in Queensland since 1 January 1970, and when did each closure occur. 
Which post offices in Queensland have been renamed since 1 January 1970; what was the original name of each office; when was each office renamed; and what is its new name. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
1 ) Which post offices have opened in South Australia since 1 January 1970, and on what date did each office commence operations. 
Which post offices have permanently closed in South Australia since 1 January 1970, and when did each closure occur. 
Which post offices in South Australia have been renamed since 1 January 1970; what was the original name of each office; when was each office renamed; and what is its new name. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
1 ) Which post offices have opened in Victoria since I January 1970, and on what date did each office commence operations. 
Which post offices have permanently closed in Victoria since I January 1970, and when did each closure occur. 
Which post offices in Victoria have been renamed since I January 1970; what was the original name of each office; when was each office renamed; and what is its new name. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
1 ) Which post offices have opened in Tasmania since 1 January 1970, and on what date did each office commence operations. 
Which post offices have permanently closed in Tasmania since 1 January 1970, and when did each closure occur. 
Which post offices in Tasmania have been renamed since I January 1970; what was the original name of each office; when was each office renamed; and what is its new name. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 12 September 1 978: 
1 ) Which post offices have opened in the Northern Territory since 1 January 1970, and on what date did each office commence operations. 
Which post offices have permanently closed in the Northern Territory since 1 January 1970 and when did each closure occur. 
Which post offices in the Northen Territory have been renamed since 1 January 1970; what was the original name of each office; when was each office renamed; and what is its new name. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 26 September 1978: 
1 ) When was the post office at the Monument, Queensland opened. 
Was this date the first day of issue of the Christmas 1976 stamps; if so, were any Christmas stamps specially cancelled on that date with a postmark designated 'The Monument'. 
If so, how many were cancelled on the following types of envelopes: (a) 'General Purpose' Australian Post Office Philatelic Covers; (b) 'Official Post Office Cover'-First Day of Issue; (c) 'Australia Post Cover'- Christmas 1976; and (d ) any other type of cover. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
Has the Office of the Commissioner for Community Relations taken any action in relation to a report in the 'Sunday Sun ' of 8 October 1 978, headed ' Hinze Blasts Pom Stirrers '; if so, what action has been taken. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
Was a 'secret' report submitted by a senior Medibank executive to the Federal Government in 1978, as claimed in  The Sunday Mail,  22 October 1 978; if so, will the Minister table the report. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
1 ) Does Toowong Post Office in Queensland issue service covers and/or first day covers. 
Is Toowong Post Office regarded as a Philatelic Post Office. 
Why were some customers not able to purchase the imperforate minisheet of the Famous Australian Aviators stamps at Toowong Post Office on the morning of the first day of issue. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
1 ) What work remains to be carried out before a radio service is available to residents of Thursday Island. 
When is it anticipated that a radio service will be available on Thursday Island. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
What circumstances led the Australian Electoral Officer for Queensland to direct the Divisional Returning Officer for Fisher not to institute proceedings against  Dr Fowles  because of his failure to vote (see answer to Question 894, Senate Hansard, 25 October 1978, page 1639). 
Did  Dr Fowles  state, as reported in the Sunday Sun. 5 November 1978, that 'the Government has said no Australian is to vote if he doesn't want to vote' and 'I wish to thank  Senator Chaney.  As he has condoned my stand he will now have to condone any other Australian who decides not to vote': if so. is  Dr Fowles'  statement an accurate representation of the Government's attitude. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 16 November 1 978: 
1 ) Will a 30 per cent quota for Australian music on Australian Radio come into effect next May. 
Does the Government intend to increase further the 30 per cent quota; if so, by how much, and over what time period, will the quota be increased. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
1 ) How is it possible to offer a free call to telephone users throughout Australia, as the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs indicated would be offered to persons telephoning Customs officials in Canberra. 
Could a similar system be introduced for rural people who have a need to ring Government Departments, but who cannot ring for the cost of a local call. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
How many and what personnel comprised the Immigration Task Force, referred to in the Minister's answer to Question No. 1746 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  21 November, page 3 146). 
Do the patrols to islands in the Torres Strait visit all populated islands in the Torres Strait. 
Are persons from Papua-New Guinea able to arrive on Thursday Island ' for the purpose of working at an occupation' or stay on the Island without documentation from their own country. 
What training is given to Quarantine personnel to carry out adequately the aerial surveillance two or three times each week. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
To whom has the Secretary to the Department of Transport issued a direction that passengers shall submit themselves and their hand baggage to a search if required (see answer to Question No. 1012). 
What is the text of the Secretary's direction. 
3 ) When was the direction issued. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
1 ) What Federal financial assistance was provided to the Thursday Island State School for its 1 978 Dance Tour. 
What was the contribution made by the Queensland Department of Aboriginal Affairs to the School for the same Dance Tour. 
Were all admission charges paid by students in Queensland schools to hear and view the Thursday Island State School's songs and dances paid to the Dance Tour; if so, what were the total receipts; if not: (a) what were the Dance Tour's net receipts for admission charges; (b) what percentage of the total admission charges did the receipts represent; and (c) to whom was the remainder of the admission charge paid. 
4 ) What was the total cost of the 1 978 Dance Tour. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
Is Medibank Private permitted to refuse membership of its 100 per cent table, and of its 'Extras' table, as implied by the statement in the Medibank brochure dated November 1978 that 'Benefits on the 100 per cent medical table may be reduced to 75 per cent, and benefits on the Extras tables may be refused, for a pre-existing condition'; if so, does this action have the approval of the Minister for Health. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
1 ) How many Australian flags were purchased by the Commonwealth Government in 1977-78, and what was their cost. 
What other national Baes were purchased by the Commonwealth in 1977-78, and what was the cost of the purchase. 
-Does the Minister representing the Prime Minister recall that in the 1975 election campaign the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  promised to provide jobs for all? Does the Minister also recall that in the 1977 election campaign the Prime Minister forecast that unemployment would fall from February 1978 and then keep falling? In view of the fact that the number of registered unemployed has increased by 230,000 since the Fraser Government has been in office and that the number is now 6 1 ,000 above what it was in February last year, does the Minister agree that in 1975 and in 1977 the Prime Minister misled the people of Australia? 
This afternoon we are debating an urgency motion which has been moved by my colleague  Senator Grimes.  It reads: 
That in the opinion of the Senate the following is a matter of urgency: 
The restoration by the Government of twice yearly indexation for all pensions and benefits under the Social Security and Repatriation systems. 
This motion arose because last year the Government removed the twice yearly indexation of pensions. That removal was embodied in legislation which we debated in this chamber last year. I recall that when we were debating the Social Services Amendment Bill, the Bill which eventually took away the twice yearly indexation provision, something pertinent was mentioned by the  speaker  who then preceded me in the debate. She said- she was speaking from the Government side- that she did not like the legislation. I recall, too, that when I spoke about the legislation I said that for the first time she and I agreed because I did not like the legislation at all. 
Since that legislation was placed in our statute book I have found that the people of Australia have expressed their dislike of the legislation as well. The more knowledge they have of what it has meant for the pensioners of Australia and its effects, the less they like the legislation. They can see certain things in it which should not be seen in legislation affecting the pensioners of Australia. For a start they can see the political implications. They can see the promises that were broken and, despite the comments of the previous  speaker, Senator Scott,  they were broken. I shall elaborate on these shortly. They see also serious implications for the pensioners of Australia because of the lack of money that they will have at their disposal. They can see a serious erosion of the value of their pensions. Some people also have looked at the economic implications of that social security legislation of last year. They can see that there will be a lack of purchasing power by the pensioners due to the fact that they will not receive the May increase they were expecting. They will have less money at their disposal. They will circulate less money throughout our economy. I think that most people would agree that any extra funds that pensioners receive are usually spent, that they are not saved. The spending of this money helps to create the type of economic climate that we want at the moment. 
Let me mention now the broken promises. As I have said,  Senator Scott  disputed that there were broken promises, but there were. Many of the promises made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  have been broken. But the breaking of the promise concerning pensions was particularly shameful. The removal of the twice yearly indexation, as happened last year, was the most amazing about face and the most barefaced breaking of a promise that I have seen since I have been a member of this chamber. Let us look at the promises that were made. In 1975, in the Liberal Party's policy speech,  Mr Fraser  said: 
The real value of pensions will be preserved. 
He said later: 
These benefits will be protected against inflation. 
That was in 1 975 before the election of that year. In 1977, just before the election which was called 1 2 months early,  Mr Fraser  said: 
We have taken politics out of old age pensions and all other social welfare and repatriation pensions by increasing them automatically in line with inflation. 
The implication was that the system prevailing at that time, which allowed twice yearly indexation of pensions, would continue. The Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  added to that statement during the election campaign in 1977 in an advertisement in which she featured. She was quoted as saying: 
We believed it was important to take politics out of pensions and that's why we altered the legislation ... we said that when we came into government we would have an automatic increase. We've done that and whilst the Act remains as it is there is, every six months, an automatic increase to take account of the cost of living. I 've had lots of people say to me 'You've given us dignity because you do not argue about our rises every six months'. 
We certainly do not argue about our rises every six months now because they are not there. I wonder whether there was a hint of what was coming in that 1977 promise by  Senator Guilfoyle.  She said atone stage: 
. whilst the Act remains as it is there is, every six months, an automatic increase . . . 
But the Act did not remain as it was for very long. It was changed in the legislation which I referred to earlier. It is perhaps significant that that was mentioned in that policy document. The legislation which we faced last year, which we debated and which the Opposition most vigorously opposed, removed the promise on which pensioners in Australia have hung their hopes for their future security. Pensioners do look towards security. They do look towards their financial security after they have worked for a lifetime. 
I wonder whether this Government should so readily cast aside the promises that it makes. Should it not perhaps give a lead to the community by keeping a promise when it is made. We should look at what happens in the home with regard to promises. I know that in my home as- I am sure happens in homes throughout the nation- I teach my children that if they make a promise they should keep that promise. It is something they should live up to all of their lives. I can remember that even at a very early age one of my own children sang a song which began 'If you give a promise then keep a promise'. Throughout all of the homes in Australia people believe this. Should we not also believe it in government? Are we not to expect that the Government should keep its promises just the same as we teach our children in our own homes. Why should this Government continue to breach promises and thus give a sorry lead to the rest of the community? I would like to see a return to honesty in government; a government which once having given a promise will keep that promise. As an initial step to such a return to honesty in government I believe that this Government should immediately announce that it will revert to a six monthly adjustment of pensions because this is what the pensioners of Australia expected after the 1975 and 1977 election campaigns. 
It is well to remember how many persons in the community are affected. The motion that we are discussing this afternoon mentions benefits under social security and repatriation systems. In the time that I had at my disposal before this motion came before the Senate, I had the opportunity of finding out only the number of people who receive pensions and benefits under the social security systems, not the repatriation systems. But even this is worth looking at. There are 1.2 million age pensioners in Australia. There are 50,000 people who are receiving a supporting parent's benefit. There are 140,000 widowed pensioners and 240,000 people in the community who are receiving an invalid pension. A significant number of people were affected by the legislation last year. A significant number of people in Australia are listening carefully to what is being said in this chamber this afternoon. It is well worth remembering that in these groups I have mentioned each person is not a statistic. Each person has the same hopes and the same fears as any other person in the community. 
One thing which has happened since the Parliament rose last year is that an increase in the consumer price index has been announced. Since pensions were increased last November the consumer price index has increased by 2.3 per cent. Pensioners are already behind. They are lagging behind by 2.3 per cent. They now will not receive an adjustment as they had expected in May. Why should they have to wait until November 1979 to receive an adjustment for this 2.3 per cent increase? There will be further increases in the consumer price index between now and November. Do these pensioners not have to buy their groceries, their bread, their milk and their tea or their coffee? Do they not have to buy clothing and pay for the heating of their homes in winter time? Do they not have to provide accommodation? Some of them have to rent accommodation. Of course they must provide these things. Should they not also be allowed to have some luxuries from time to time, at the time of their birthday or at Christmas? Of course they should, but they cannot if the present attitude of the Government of not providing increases to keep in line with the consumer price index continues. 
Last year we were told why the practice of adjustments on a twice yearly basis was discontinued. We were told that there had been a reduction in inflation and that therefore the increases on a twice yearly basis were not required. A number of us on this side of the chamber last year pointed out what a spurious type of argument this was, because inflation was perhaps running at 7 per cent to 8 per cent but in 1971 and 1972 when inflation was running at a rate of about 5 per cent the McMahon Government decided that it should increase pensions on a twice yearly basis. Either the McMahon Government was wrong or the present Government was wrong last year when it announced that there would not be an adjustment on a six monthly basis. Clearly the Government was wrong last year. It put a misleading argument. I believe that the real reason was to save funds. By not providing indexation for pensions last year the Government will save $27m this year. It will save $60m in a full year. I believe that this afternoon when the Minister for Social Security was speaking she clearly suggested that it was mainly an economic consideration; that was the Government's prime motive last year in removing the twice yearly indexation. 
If the Government does not honour its promises as it has not honoured its promise in this area it is misleading the Australian people, just as I suggested earlier this afternoon that it misled the Australian people by its inability to provide more employment in the community. I further believe that if it cannot honour its promises one more step should be taken. This Government should say that it requires a new mandate. It should say to the Australian people, 'We cannot have twice yearly indexation of pensions as we said we would at the 1975 election and the 1977 election. Because we cannot do this we want a mandate from you to have an increase of pensions only on a 12 months basis.' So it should go to the people and ask for this mandate. We in the Labor Party would accept such a challenge from the Government. I am sure that if the challenge was issued and the Government went to the people the Labor Party would win. I support the motion that has been moved by my colleague  Senator Grimes  this afternoon. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
When may I expect a reply to the question I asked in the Senate on 9 November 1978  (Hansard,  page 1834), concerning the Defence Service Homes Insurance Scheme. 
My question is directed to the Minister who represents the Minister for Transport. I preface my question by stating that I asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 15 August 1978 the following question: 
Does Trans-Australia Airlines have any plans to withdraw any port of call on the Mount Isa to Townsville route? 
On 14 September 1978 I was provided with the following answer: 
No. Trans-Australia Airlines has no plans to withdraw any port of call on the Mount Isa to Townsville route. 
On 28 October 1978 the  Courier-Mail  reported that Trans-Australia Airlines and Bush Pilots Airways Ltd had been to see the Premier of Queensland about TAA pulling out of services in Queensland, including the Mount Isa to Townsville route. Subsequent reports confirmed that the  Courier-Mail  report was correct. I therefore ask the Minister whether I was deliberately misled on 14 September. If I was not, at what time did TAA decide to pull out of the Mount Isa to Townsville route? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Was consideration given to the inclusion of a  Senator for  Queensland in the party which attended discussions in the Torres Strait region concerning the Torres Strait Treaty during the week ending 4 November 1978; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; it not, why not. 
-I ask the Minister for Science and the Environment a question which complements a question asked earlier today by  Senator Maunsell.  I refer to an editorial in the Sun of 22 February 1979 which stated: 
Shopkeepers who advertise food and household items in imperial units will soon face prosecution by the Metric Conversion Board. 
Can the Minister advise whether the statement in the  Sun  in fact is correct? If it is correct, can the Minister advise whether there have been recent innovations to assist the public and shopkeepers to understand what the  Sun  has referred to as a metric monster? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate is of the opinion that the Government should take immediate steps to remove the discrimination directed at certain Queensland residents whose property is insured under the Defence Service Homes Insurance Scheme. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) What are the current rates of compensation for Commonwealth Government Employees. 
When were these rates last adjusted. 
When will these rates again be adjusted to take into account increases in the cost of living. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not why not. 
-I present the following petition from 27 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That the decision of the Australian Government to depart from its 1975 election promise, a promise re-affirmed during the 1977 election campaign, that pensions would be increased twice-yearly in line with increases in the CPI, will seriously add to the economic burdens now borne by those citizens who are wholly or mainly dependent on their pensions. 
Your petitioners are impelled by this fact to call upon the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to review the abovementioned decision, and to determine: 
That pensions will be increased twice yearly in line with rises in the CPI as promised by the Prime Minister in his 1975 policy speech. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether her attention has been drawn to an article in the  Australian Liberal  of February this year in which  Mr Eric  Robinson, the Minister for Finance, states, amongst other things: 
. there are a number of young people in this country who decide not to work. I see examples in my own electorate. Down on the beach they are fit and tanned and look well. They are getting unemployment benefits and life is quite easy. 
Can the Minister advise whether her Department has made attempts to locate these fit and tanned young people who do not want to work, but who are receiving the unemployment benefit? Has  Mr Robinson  given any information which would assist the Department of Social Security to identify these allegedly indolent young people? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
When we receive information in the Parliament we expect that information to be correct. One way that I know of receiving information that is often helpful to a member of the Opposition is to ask questions on notice. If we receive incorrect information as answers to questions on notice the whole basis of trust in those answers will fall. I refer to a question that I asked of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  on 2 1 February and the answer which I received tonight. The question read: 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
The answer that I received this evening reads as follows: 

Yes. 
In other words the answer was that the Foreign Minister had left Australia once since 24 October 1978 and on that occasion he paid his departure tax. Last year I asked a question of the Foreign Minister, on notice. It and the answer supplied read: 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Did the Minister and each member of his party of six officials pay the Departure Tax when they travelled from Weipa to Daru on 2 November 1978. If so, where and when was the tax paid. If not, why not. 
Yes. I, and each of the six officials accompanying me, paid the Departure Tax in Weipa on 2 November 1978. 
In other words the Foreign Minister has replied and said that he left Australia and visited Daru on 2 November. I also have a copy of an article from the  Australian  of 26 January this year. The article is headed 'Peacock's absence' and the first sentence reads as follows: 
A deal of sound and fury has been whipped up around the fact that the Cabinet decision to suspend its aid to Vietnam was made during the absence overseas of the Foreign Minister,  Mr Peacock. 
Obviously  Mr Peacock  was also absent from Australia in January this year. I have information which suggests that  Mr Peacock  left Australia at least on two occasions since the date in question, 24 October 1978. There does seem therefore to be a discrepancy between what I have outlined and the information that was given to me tonight. Honourable senators might ask: What is the difference between  Mr Peacock  going overseas once or twice? It may have been even more. The fact that it is such a small difference really does not matter. The fact is that it seems that incorrect information was given to me in answer to a question that I placed on notice. If we start to receive incorrect information in answer to questions on notice we cannot trust information that is given to us any more. It seems that we will have to look at answers carefully to see whether the information can be used for the purpose for which we asked for it. I would like to be informed at some time in the future- I hope next week- the correct answer to the question that I asked on 21 February 1979. Was the Minister away once? Was he away more than once? If so, how many times was he away? If incorrect information was given to me in answer to a question upon notice, I would like to know why. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
1 ) Did an item in the  Sunday Sun,  29 October 1978, state that experienced barmaids are being employed as ' trainees '. 
Has the claim been investigated; if so, what are the results of the investigation. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 20 February 1 979: 
1 ) How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1978: 
How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Is the number of 'near collisions' or 'near misses' involving civil aircraft over Australia recorded; if so, what are the figures for each year from 1974 to 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) What was the result of the inquiry into the crash of an RAAF plane carrying Santa Claus, as reported in the  Courier-Mail,  14 December 1978. 
Did Santa Claus sustain any injury; if so, has he been paid any form of compensation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 21 November 1978: 
How many: (a) Trans Australia Airlines; and (b) Ansett Airlines of Australia, scheduled aircraft were ruled unserviceable in each month since January 1978. 
What is the breakdown, by type of aircraft, of the aircraft ruled unserviceable. 
-I present the following petition from 73 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble Petition respectfully showeth: 
That the decision of the Australian Government to depart from its 1975 election promise, a promise re-affirmed during the 1977 election campaign, that pensions would be increased twice-yearly in line with increases in the C.P.I., will seriously add to the economic burdens now borne by those citizens who are wholly or mainly dependent on their pensions. 
Your petitioners are impelled by this fact to call upon the 
Australian Government as a matter of urgency to review the abovementioned decision, and to determineThat pensions will be increased twice yearly in line with rises in the C.P.I, as promised by the Prime Minister in his 1975 policy speech. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Over recent years there has been much debate on the erosion of civil liberties in Queensland. Tonight I intend to outline to the Senate a personal incident which adds something to that debate. Even though the incident involved a member of this chamber, namely me, it had not originally been my intention to bring it to the notice of the Senate. However, as the Queensland Police Department took  2½  months to show me the courtesy of informing me what had occurred following a complaint I made I decided to outline some of the details to the Senate. 
Last year on Thursday 7 December a protest rally was held in Brisbane. It was a protest against the current Queensland street march legislation. The protest took the form of a rally in King George Square followed by a march through city streets. Although I had, and still have, sympathy with the motives of those who participated, I did not join in the actual street march. This was a conscious decision on my part- a decision which I am ready to debate if necessary at an appropriate time. Nevertheless I did stay while the march proceeded so that I could observe what occurred. There were two principal reasons for this. First, when recent marches had been held in Brisbane I was cut of the city and thus unable to observe what had occurred. I subsequently viewed violence on television but I had not been on the scene to observe what actually did occur. Secondly, I can recall demonstrations in Brisbane some time ago when I observed illegal actions by police officers. On these occasions I was a public servant attached to the Queensland Police Department and thus I was not able to make any public statement about my observations. I wanted to see for myself whether similar police behaviour still existed and, if it did, make some record of it. For this purpose I carried writing material and a camera. 
At one stage I was standing on the footpath in Albert Street between Queen and Adelaide Streets. On the road itself both police officers and demonstrators were pushing and shoving. Most of the 346 people taken into custody on that day were arrested at this stage. At one stage I noted a young police officer using what I considered to be undue force against someone whom he had no intention of arresting. Because of my lack of photographic skill I was not able to take a photograph of his action. The melee made it impossible to do so. I did, however, record the police officer's number. Another police officer saw me record the number and called it out. From the way the officer whose number I recorded then moved it appeared obvious that he realised that I had information which would record his identity. He moved towards me. 
I was still on the footpath. He commenced to push me vigorously and ordered me to move on. It was almost impossible to obey his order because of the pressure of the crowd. I told him he had no right to push me around. He countered by asking why. I checked a natural impulse to inform him that I was a member of the Federal Parliament- I thought there would be no easier way of ending up in the watch house. I simply told him I was not a participant in the demonstration.  His  vigorous pushing continued. At one stage he actually held on to me and ordered me in no uncertain terms to move on. I did so. I had an important family engagement that evening and I had no intention of spoiling my plans because of a belligerent police officer. I do point out however that technically I was assaulted. In case I have not made myself clear, I state clearly that the assault was not feather duster treatment. I have a witness who can confirm that parts of my body were still marked from the assault the next day. If I had done to that police officer what he did to me, the full weight of the law would have been brought down upon me. From his actions, however, it appears that he believes he is above the law. 
I reported the incident and made a formal complaint about three minutes later to a senior member of the Force, a person whom I had known personally while working in the Queensland Police Department.  His  initial response was that I must be joking. When he was assured that I was not joking, he took details, including the police officer's number and said that my complaint would be passed on. I think, but I am not certain, that he suggested that someone would call on me to obtain further details. Perhaps naively, I expected a call the following day, Friday. This, however, did not occur. I did not expect to be approached on Saturday or Sunday but by Monday afternoon when no approach had been made I rang the office of the Commissioner of Police. I was connected to the office of the  Deputy  Commissioner who, in no uncertain terms, told me that my complaint was due to political bias and unless I had supporting evidence nothing would be done. 
It was obvious to me that if I had not telephoned no action would have been taken on my complaint. The clear message which came from the Deputy Commissioner was that his police officers could do no wrong. Finally, at my insistence- reluctantly on his part- the Deputy Commissioner agreed to send an inspector to see me. The inspector duly arrived. I outlined what had occurred and said that I did not want trouble for the police officer concerned. However, I did want an assurance that this young police officer would be counselled and would be told clearly that the behaviour that he had exhibited was not acceptable. One of the reasons I have not mentioned the young police officer's name or number is that I do not want his identity revealed unless that is the wish of his superiors. 
It would have been an easy matter for me to obtain the officer's name but I did not consider that necessary. I simply wanted him to be informed that Queensland citizens do have rights and that a police officer has no right to enter into unlawful physical contact. I was assured that this would occur, that the police officer would be counselled and that I would be advised accordingly. It was only last week that I was advised that the police officer had been spoken to. If I had been waiting for an apology I would have been disappointed. No apology has yet been forthcoming. 
When I was speaking to the inspector who came to see me I thought that there may be some photographic evidence of the incident. I was not able to offer it to him because at that time I had not had the opportunity to seek it out. However, I was later able to obtain a photograph which was taken by a photographer from the  Australian.  Thanks to his quick reflexes I now have a photographic record of the particular police officer holding me. I do not think that the police officer can be readily identified by this photograph. Thus, I intend to seek leave to table it. In that way, it will become part of the record of this chamber. Incidentally, I did send a photocopy of the photograph to the Commissioner of Police, the Deputy Commissioner and the police inspector who came to see me. The photograph shows quite clearly that I was held and it also illustrates the crowd to which I referred earlier. I seek leave to table this photograph. 
Leave granted. 
-As I mentioned when I commenced speaking this evening, I have outlined this incident to the Senate to illustrate what can and what does occur in Queensland. Not only was the young police officer at fault, so too were those people who were prepared to cover up the incident because of my supposed lack of evidence. If by revealing the circumstances of the incident I happen to curb some of the illegal tendencies which are exhibited by some members of the Queensland Police Force, my report to the Senate this, evening will have been worth while. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
I must admit that this evening I am gravely disappointed that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  is not able to be in the chamber. I say that because today a matter regarding social security arose which I believe requires an answer before we rise this evening, as we will not be here next week. If we were going to be here next week, when we could discuss this matter, I suppose that my disappointment at the Minister for Social Security not being able to be here would not be as great as it is tonight. But I have the old fashioned belief that Ministers should be in the chamber when we are sitting. 
I raise this matter because it is of significant importance. Yesterday in the Senate,  Senator Grimes  asked a question, followed by a supplementary question, on pensioner telephone concessions. The answers given to his questions did not reach any finality. After I heard the questions being asked, I noticed an article in the Brisbane  Telegraph  which was written by  Ms Erica  Parker. I think it is worth while my mentioning parts of that article in view of what I plan to say about issues that arose today. The article was headed 'The Phone Concession Reviewed- A check by Social Security ' and read in part: 
Social Security is tightening up on one of the most prized fringe benefits of all- the telephone rental concessions. 
In a blanket mailing, pensioners are receiving a questionnaire requiring them to re-establish their eligibility. 
Failure to return the completed form, they are warned, will result in automatic cancellation of entitlement. 

 Ms Parker went on to detail what the concession is and to mention some of the conditions of eligibility, which include: 
Additionally, a condition of eligibility is that (as Social Security puts it), the person who claims the concession must be living alone or with other people who can get the concession or with another person whose income does not exceed $79.70 a week. 
One of the questions I want to ask- I hope that the Minister for Social Security will be able to answer it within the next day or so- is how this amount of $79.70 is arrived at. In addition, does the Minister's Department determine the amount of $79.70, or does the Australian Telecommunications Commission determine it?  Ms Parker's  article yesterday went further and quoted a section of the questionnaire. She then detailed some parts of a conversation which she had had with Telecom and with the Department of Social Security. She ended her article in yesterday's  Telegraph  this way: 
It's my tip that review of the telephone fringe benefit will be only the first of on-going reviews instigated one by one as Social Security can cope with them. 
All inspired by the scathing  report  of the Auditor-General last September when, as I seem to remember, he estimated that, overall, over-payments in social benefits could have hit $58,700,000. In round figures. 

 Ms Parker had an ankle published in today's  Telegraph  which is even more revealing. In fact, as one reads that article the whole exercise appears to be something that has come from the mad hatter's tea party. I shall read parts of her article in this afternoon's  Telegraph,  which is headed 'Troubles with that phone quiz'. I think you will excuse me,  Mr Deputy President,  if I quote a significant pan of this article because it is quite important that we follow the flow of it to get the full story that she outlined. She stated: 
Oh dear, oh dear ... in its rush to weed out pensioners enjoying telephone rental concession without true entitlement Social Security has just about met itself coming back. 
It just didn't print enough of the quiz forms- or, if it did, it failed to supply anything like an adequate number to Queensland. 
The upshot? Some pensioners received the questionnaire and some didn't because they couldn't- and so what has happened to them? 
Why, they're getting a sort of after-thought notice which, in effect, asks them to go hunt up a questionnaire for themselves! 
Says that second Social Security notice (I shared the gist of that original questionnaire with you yesterday): 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
Recently pensioners receiving the Telephone Rental Concession were sent questionnaires by this Department, reviewing their eligibility for the concession. 
IF YOU RECEIVE THE CONCESSION but did not receive a questionnaire, please contact your nearest office of this department so that arrangements may be made for you to complete one. 
Should you decide not to complete and return a questionnaire, it will be taken to indicate that you no longer wish to be considered for the concession. ' 
In other words, if you were left out of the 'lucky lot' who got the quiz (and the reply-paid envelope), you'd best now hop to it to ring, write or personally call in for your copy or- 
Like the little boy who fell out of the balloon, when your concession 's wiped out- you won 't have a leg to stand on 
She went on to outline the guidelines, some of which I have mentioned already. Later on her article states: 
But to get back to where we came in- which is to the subject of the 'shortfall' in the questionnaire print and the issuing, instead, of those secondary notices . . . 
There must, of course, be some logical explanation, but until any such is forthcoming, I only can go on wondering as you must be wondering, too- 
Why, oh why instead of printing that special follow-on didn't they simply get cracking in printing more of the original quiz. Exactly as it was and is- 
And that way save any risk of the feeble and ill being among those who missed out and now have to go chase one. 
The whole situation is becoming most confused for a group in this community which find it difficult enough to eke out a living without having bureaucratic nonsense like that foisted upon them. It is significant that a number of people on the other side of the Senate think the whole thing is a joke. If they think it is a joke they should come into my office and answer people who are ringing up and wondering where they are situated. 
The Minister for Social Security could not come into this chamber to answer what is actually happening. The people of Australia are being confused by what is happening and they are not being given any proper explanation. One person who rang my office this afternoon is in this situation: He is an invalid pensioner, and his wife receives the wife's pension. He has a 14- year-old son to put through school.  His  daughter has just started work and she is living at home. This pensioner tells me that he cannot afford to lose the concession that he has and he is wondering whether he should be honest about the present circumstances of his family. I cannot condone someone saying that he is not going to be honest about a situation, but I can understand what is happening when we get this silly nonsense that I have outlined here this evening being foisted upon people- people who find it difficult, enough to deal with bureaucratic forms at any time. 
As I said, I am disappointed that the Minister for Social Security is not here so that she could outline what is actually happening. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the Senate will not be sitting next week. This means that it will be about a week and a half before we can expect to receive any explanation in this place. That is really not good enough. What we should have tonight is an explanation from some Minister about what is going on. The people of Australia should be told what is going on. It will be a bad state of affairs if we cannot get an explanation from a Minister tonight. However, if that is the case I would expect the Minister for Social Security to come clean about this whole matter as soon as possible. Even if Parliament is not sitting she should explain to the people of Australia what her Department is doing to the pensioners of Australia. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
What was the total cost of production and printing of the document  CSIRO Research Program Objectives  1978-79. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
1 ) How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
1) How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) What curfew arrangements prevail at Brisbane Airport. 
Was the curfew broken during the period from 1 December 1978 to 31 December 1978; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Has a standing committee been set up to approve courses in non-Government Business Colleges; if so: (a) who are on the committee; (b) what is their remuneration; and (c) what administrative assistance and staff have been provided for the committee. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Has the Department of Health carried out any investigations in relation to the contents of 'Ma Evans' hair restorer' and the claims made about the 'restorer' in the  Courier Mail,  14 December 1978; if so, what are the results of the investigations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Has the Federal Government investigated alleged defects in certain steel-belted radial tyres, as suggested in the  Sunday Mail  10 December 1978; if so, what has been the result of the investigations. 
-I will be brief tonight. I will be very brief because the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  to whom I wish to direct some questions, is not in the chamber. On 8 March last I raised some matters in relation to social security. I had made it known that I wished to speak on a social security matter on 8 March which was the last day before we rose for the week's recess. I was informed then that the Minister was not able to come into the chamber because of a prior arrangement. Nevertheless, I set forward what I thought were some points which needed to be brought before the chamber on the day before we were due to rise. I had hoped that during the recess some answers to the questions I posed on that day would be provided either to me or to the Senate. Unfortunately, as far as I can see, this did not happen. 
I therefore said to my Whip tonight that I wished to raise on the adjournment a matter dealing with social security. I believe that this request has been passed on. Yet I still do not see the Minister for Social Security in the Chamber. There may be quite a valid reason. I have not been told why the Minister is not in this chamber. It is pointless for me to raise the matters which I wish to put before the Senate tonight if the responsible Minister is not in the chamber. I will therefore give notice that I will again attempt tomorrow night to raise the same matter that I wished to raise tonight. I hope that then the Minister will be in the chamber so that she may be able to give some answers to me and the Senate on the points that I raise. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
1 ) What was the 'survey of migrants' information needs' mentioned on page 37 of  The Courier-Mail,  9 December 1978. 
In which cities or areas was the survey conducted. 
3 ) When did the survey take place. 
Which organisation or organisations conducted the survey and what was the cost to the Minister's Department. 
Was any Commonwealth authority approached to carry out the survey; if so, what was the response; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
1 ) How many Commonwealth cars in Queensland carry a Queensland number plate. 
To which Departments are such cars allocated. 
Do any of the Commonwealth cars with a Queensland number plate have some other identification which shows that they are Commonwealth vehicles. 
What Queensland registration fee is paid for Commonwealth cars which carry Queensland number plates. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Is a brochure available on the Domiciliary Nursing Care Benefit; if not, is it proposed  to  publish one in the near future. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Did: (a) a 'jumbo' jet narrowly avoid disaster when it took off from the runway at Melbourne Airport; (b) an Ansett Boeing 727 have to change course to avoid an RAAF 'Hercules'; (c) a 'Tri-Islander' take evasive action because it was too close to another aircraft; (d) a near miss occur in July 1978 when a Boeing 747 delayed complying with descent instructions over Sydney; and (e) a Boeing 747 over Cowra have to take evasive action when a DC9 came too close to it, as reported in the  Sunday Sun,  4 February 1979; if so, what are the details in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Was an investigation carried out into an incident involving an Army 'Kiowa' helicopter and a Trans-Australia Airlines DC9 jet in Townsville, as reported in the  Townsville Daily Bulletin,  2 February 1979; if so; (a) what was the incident; and (b) what was the result of the investigation. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Did an article in the Brisbane  Telegraph,  19 February 1979, report a claim by Professor Ralph Doherty that the University of Queensland ' might be forced to cut the number of medical students as a result of initiatives from the Tertiary Education Commission'; if so, has the Tertiary Education Commission made any suggestion to the University of Queensland that the number of medical students should be reduced. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 25 February 1979: 
Did an article in the  Courier Mail,  3 February 1979, report the National Parry Member for Mount Isa in the Queensland Parliament,  Mr A.  Bertoni, as saying, amongst other things, that 'The Aboriginal Legal Aid Service is a well-known leftwing organisation, heavily involved in polities'; if so, has the Minister found it necessary to check the accuracy of  Mr Bertoni  's statement. 
-I think that my question is properly directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to recent reports about the possibility of adopting measures in Australia to reduce petrol consumption. I also refer to reports that President Carter recently asked Congress for authority to order petrol rationing coupons such as existed in World War II. Has the Government any plans for petrol rationing in Australia or for the imposition of any other measures to reduce petrol consumption such as the weekend closure of service stations or the reduction of maximum speed limits? 
On the day we rose for a week's recess I raised the issue of the current review of eligibility for the telephone rental concession. I do not inlend to canvass the issues I raised when I last spoke. Even though the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  was not in the chamber at the time, I am sure she has studied the  Hansard  record of what I said. However, I emphasise that the sudden, almost secretive, introduction of the review left many people quite confused, particularly the elderly. Even today I had a telephone call at my Brisbane office from a distressed elderly lady who was about to lose her telephone rental concesion because she has been quite ill and has been obliged to ask a working relative to come to live with her. 
At this stage I wish to pose some questions to the Minister. Firstly, I hope that the Minister will comment on the confusion caused by an apparent shortage of forms in Queensland; I outlined details of this in the Senate on 8 March. My second question arises because some pensioners will lose their telephone rental concession as a result of the current review.  Ms Erica  Parker in her column in the Brisbane  Telegraph  last week reported she had been informed by the Department of Social Security that pensioners would not be required to repay any concession incorrectly received by them in the past. So that there can be no doubt on this matter I would be grateful if the Minister confirmed that no pensioner need worry about receiving a demand for a refund of the concession which he or she previously received incorrectly. Could the Minister now inform the Senate how the figure of $79.70 was arrived at when fixing the cut-off for another person who is living in the pensioner's house? Is this amount set by the Minister's Department or by the Australian Telecommunications Commission? 
In conclusion, I reiterate that I am disappointed that the confusion which faced the pensioners of Australia did occur. Given proper planning and an humanitarian approach, a great deal of heartburn would have been prevented. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Did an article in the  Sunday Mail,  24 December 1978, state that a winner of the Distinguished Conduct Medal had his service pension reduced because of a £10 payment he received with his award, if so, has the incident been investigated: if it has been investigated, what was the outcome of the investigation. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
How many times has the Attorney-General left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Attorney-General pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 20 February 1 979: 
Are the students in the external non-qualifying course provided by the Darling Downs Institute of Advanced Education counted for funding or other purposes for that Institute. 
The Senate is debating the first readings of the Poultry Industry Levy Amendment Bill 1979 and the Poultry Industry Assistance Amendment Bill 1979. 1 am using the provisions of Standing Order 190 to speak of a matter not pertaining to these two poultry industry Bills. I mention this because on occasions people who have listened to my speeches and others who have taken the opportunity of reading them in  Hansard have  commented to me wondering why I have not spoken about the particular Bill. I state at the outset that this is a way of allowing us to speak on subjects which we think need to be brought before the Senate. We do not have to speak to the subject matter of the Bill before the Senate. 
Each day most people in our society wish to communicate with one another. We have developed a number of methods of communication. For example, we speak to one another or we write letters. In some cases we employ a system of signs or signals. Possibly the most important aspect is not how we communicate, but how well we do so. It is important that we understand what each person is attempting to convey. In other words, it is important that we are really communicating, not merely using the methods of communication but failing to use them well. When we communicate, it is not necessary that we agree with one another. If we agreed all the time, it possibly would be a dull world. Nevertheless, if we are to make any progress in our quest to communicate, it is essential that we really do understand one another. 
For a number of years I have been interested in one important aspect of our ability to communicate by use of the written word. This particular aspect is the readability or level of difficulty of a piece of prose. Honourable senators would be well aware that reading material varies greatly in its ease of comprehension. Certainly, the better our reading skills, the less likely this is to bother us. Yet, the ease or difficulty of a given piece of written material is an important factor for school children. For some adults with limited reading skills it remains an important factor throughout life. Some writing, of course, can be so difficult that it can tax even the very good reader. 
Before there were any widespread attempts to quantify the level of difficulty of particular written work, experienced educators were able to grade written material with some level of success, using, I suppose, a type of rule of thumb. A study I carried out on some Queensland primary school readers over 10 years ago suggested that these readers were well graded in their level of difficulty. Those who compiled the books had most likely not heard of methods of determining readability levels. Even if they had heard of these methods, I doubt that they would have used them. What is more likely is that through experience they had developed certain techniques which allowed them to grade their material in a satisfactory manner. 
To achieve clear, concise writing- prose which permits us to communicate with a minimum likelihood of error- it is not necessary to have a sound knowledge of formulae for determining the difficulty level of written English. It is, however, necessary to understand some basic writing techniques. In general, the shorter the sentence, the less the reading difficulty. As well, simple words are preferable to more complex ones, provided, of course, that the shorter word amply carries the meaning which one wishes to convey. There are a number of other techniques which one may employ. However, I do not intend to work through these, as my basic purpose this afternoon is far different. 
The matter I intend to discuss this afternoon is some written material which is compiled by public servants. I have seen sent by government departments to the public too much writing which is almost beyond comprehension. Indeed, some of the writing could lead one, perhaps cynically, to believe that there was a deliberate attempt to confuse. Yet, I would not accept such a conclusion. More often than not, a public servant takes a great amount of time to give a full explanation of a problem posed to his department. Too often, failing to use even some basic writing techniques, he produces a jargon-filled piece of officialese. The result is a total lack of communication. I do not wish to imply that this always occurs. I have seen departmental writing which is crystal clear. But too often public servants write in their own jargon, against their own middleclass background of experience, and completely fail to convey their meaning to the public. This is not done wilfully, but it certainly happens. 
I was prompted to speak on this matter because of a particularly bad letter a constituent received from a government department. By bad', I mean that it was most difficult to read. Rather than put it aside as just one more piece of bureaucratic prose, I decided to have its readability level calculated. Before I quote the letter, however, I shall mention something about the particular formula which was used on this letter to determine its level of readability. A number of formulae are available, but the one which was used on the piece of prose that I shall read shortly was the Flesch reading ease formula. I refer those people who wish to obtain detailed information about the Flesch formula to the  Journal of Applied Psychology,  June 1948, pages 22 1 to 233. 1 shall give a brief summary of some of the main points of Flesch 's formula. 
The formula rates reading ease as a figure between 0 and 100. The range of scores is outlined as follows: A reading ease score of 0 to 30 may be described as very difficult. A score from 30 to 50 is difficult. A reading ease score between 50 and 60 is described as fairly difficult. Flesch describes the 60 to 70 score as standard. A score from 70 to 80 denotes fairly easy reading; from 80 to 90, easy; and from 90 to 100, very easy. So that the points I will outline may be more easily understood, I seek leave of the Senate to incorporate in  Hansard  the table outlining these reading ease scores and their description. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="080232197903270_22_0.jpg"></graphic>

-One of the advantages of using Flesch 's formula, as opposed to one of the many other formulae which are available, is that, having established a reading ease score, one may compare a piece of prose with the readability of some Australian newspapers. This perhaps gives a better indication of the relative reading difficulty than by reference to the table which I have just mentioned. In 1966, Jonathan 
Anderson published in the  Australian Journal of Psychology  the results of calculations which he made of the reading ease of nine Australian newspapers, using Flesch's formula. Jonathan Anderson was at that time at the University of Queensland. He is now Professor of Education at Flinders University. 
At this stage, I shall read the letter which prompted me to say something about the letter's level of difficulty. With the indulgence of the Senate, I ask that the letter be printed as it was received by my constituent. In that way, it may be seen that in the fourth paragraph the word dependant' is incorrectly spelt. As well, the word 'lease' is used instead of, I presume, the word 'leads '. This in itself is sloppy work to emanate from a Commonwealth government department. The letter states: 
Dear  Sir 
INCOME TAX 
Your letter of 24 July 1978 in which you requested an amendment of your income tax assessment for the year ended 30 June 1 978 has been received. 
You were concerned with the application of the health insurance levy at family rates within your assessment, pointing out that both you and your wife were in receipt of income and that you elected to pay a single levy while your wife elected to obtain private hospital and medical cover. 
In determining the applicable levy ceiling and in considering whether a person has taken out sufficient private insurance to qualify for exemption from the levy, it may be relevant whether the person has 'dependants'. A person will be free of the levy otherwise payable if he or she and all of the person's dependants are covered by appropriate private health insurance for the whole of the year. 
For levy, purposes, a person is a 'dpendant' of another if he or she is a resident of Australia to whose maintenance the other person contributes. A person will be taken to have contributed to the maintenance of another person during any period which they reside together. This lease to the result that a husband wife residing together, who are each in receipt of income, are for levy purposes both to be treated as a person who has a dependant . . . 
Rather than continue to read this letter it might be preferable if it is incorporated in  Hansard  and I seek leave to do so. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Dear  Sir 
INCOME TAX 
Your letter of 24 July 1978 in which you requested an amendment of your income tax assessment for the year ended 30 June 1978 has been received. 
You were concerned with the application of the health insurance levy at family rates within your assessment, pointing out that both you and your wife were in receipt of income and that you elected to pay a single levy while your wife elected to obtain private hospital and medical cover. 
In determining the applicable levy ceiling and in considering whether a person has taken out sufficient private insurance to qualify for exemption from the levy, it may be relevant whether the person has 'dependants'. A person will be free of the levy otherwise payable if he or she and all of the person's dependants are covered by appropriate private health insurance for the whole of the year. 
For levy, purposes, a person is a 'dependant' of another if he or she is a resident of Australia to whose maintenance the other person contributes. A person will be taken to have contributed to the maintenance of another person during any period during which they reside together. This lease to the result that a husband wife residing together, who are each in receipt of income, are for levy purposes both to be treated as a person who has a dependant- each is to be viewed as a dependant of the other. Here the relevant ceiling is $300 and the levy is apportioned; the husband will be charged levy on the basis of his own taxable income and the wife will be charged levy only to the extent (if any) necessary to bring the combined levy up to the ceiling level. 
Thus, in your case, as you are considered to be a dependant of your wife and you do not have appropriate private health insurance cover, your wife is also not free of the levy otherwise payable. 
The health insurance levy applicable to you has been calculated as follows: 2.5 per cent of your taxable income of $9,187 which equals $229.67. The levy payable by your wife is $70.32 to bring the total levy payable to $299.99 which is the family ceiling payable for the 1 977-78 year. 
Trusting this satisfies your query. 
-I thank the Senate for allowing me to incorporate this letter in  Hansard.  Those who read the text of the letter in  Hansard  will agree that it is a very difficult letter to read. Not only is it a very difficult letter to read but also it is a very difficult letter to comprehend. When I first read the letter I found it very difficult to comprehend and I am sure that the person who received this letter from the Department was more confused after reading it than when he initially queried the Department about his problem. I did not read all the letter so I therefore should point out that the letter finishes with this very clear and concise sentence: 
Trusting this satisfies your query. 
The last sentence probably was the most readable part but it stood in stark contrast with the remainder of the letter. I asked the Parliamentary Library to calculate the reading ease score of this letter. Its score, using the Flesch formula, is given another table which I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard.  If leave is granted, I will speak about the table. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="080232197903270_24_1.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank honourable senators. The table that I have incorporated in  Hansard  is headed ' "Reading Ease" Score of Letter and a Number of Australian Newspapers'. I shall outline these scores, progressing from the easiest level of readability to the most difficult. The readability level of the Australian newspapers came from the article written by Jonathan Anderson which appeared in the  Australian Journal of Psychology.  The  Sunday Mirror  headed the list in terms of easiness with a reading ease score of 63. The  Sunday Mail  in Brisbane came next with a score of 58, followed by the  Daily Mirror  with a reading ease score of 55. The  Sun  in Melbourne, the  Telegraph  in Brisbane and the  Courier Mail  in Brisbane each had a reading ease score of 54. The reading ease score of the  Age  in Melbourne was down to 46- it was more difficult to read- and the  Australian  also had a score of 46. The  Sydney Morning Herald  was the most difficult to read of the nine Australian newspapers sampled. It had a reading ease score of 45. 1 repeat for honourable senators that the lower the reading ease score the more difficult the paper is to read. So the  Sunday Mirror  with a reading ease score of 63 was easier to read than the  Sydney Morning Herald  with a score of 45. However, using the same formula the letter had a reading ease score of 22 which, incidentally, was in the highest level of difficulty referred to by Flesch when he produced his formula. 
I remind honourable senators that the reading ease scores for these nine newspapers were published in 1966 and I concede that since then there may have been some movement in the level of reading difficulty of those newspapers. Nevertheless, they are a good guide and certainly something with which this letter may be compared. The comparison that I have just made shows how dreadful was this letter if it was a genuine attempt to convey information to a member of the public. It was far more difficult to read than any of the nine newspapers and within the range which Flesch described as 'very difficult'. In fact, it was far more difficult than the most difficult news category in Anderson's study. Anderson not only looked at the nine newspapers that I outlined but also categorised news items. He found that the most difficult category was 'world news'. It had a mean reading ease score of 44. 
The plain fact is that the letter should not have been sent in such a difficult form. It is obvious that a great deal of time was expended in drafting the letter. Without additional care being paid to the ease with which it could be read, much of the original drafting time became wasted effort. I am certain that honourable senators could find ways in which the readability of this letter would be improved. With just a little care it would be possible to redraft the letter and put it into the range of scores for the nine newspapers. Perhaps at some future Public Service course this letter may be taken as a sample of difficult writing to be improved by redrafting. If it is, I would be pleased to know what level of reading ease is accomplished. 
Let us not leave the story there for what lesson can be learned from what I have discussed this afternoon? The letter I quoted this afternoon was obviously one from the Australian Taxation Office. I have no evidence to suggest that, in terms of the reading difficulty of its correspondence, this Office is atypical. Until convinced otherwise, I expect that other offices and departments currently issue letters of similar reading difficulty. Clearly, when this occurs there is a lack of communication. The public servant spends part of his day drafting a letter and goes home satisfied that he has done a good day's work. Two days later, a member of the public stumbles through that difficult letter which he has received in the mail and remains as confused as he was before he wrote to the government department. No wonder the public sometimes feels frustrated. This type of situation cannot continue. There must be a series of training programs to ensure that those who write letters to the public fully understand how to communicate. These training programs need not be lavishly organised. For example, when I was a public servant in Queensland I found that I could conduct training programs within my own branch without significant disruption to the work of the branch. I am convinced that the long term consequences of these programs led to a much better work output from my staff. Although such training programs need not be lavishly organised, the training programs which I suggest must take place. The sheer waste which occurs due to the lack of communication is something which we cannot afford and obviously cannot condone. 
I also suggest that departments make regular random selections of the written work that they produce. No harm could result if they take some of their written work and actually calculate its level of difficulty or hopefully, to take the term from Flesch its reading ease. Departments must not remain so isolated from the public that they forget that their clients deserve the courtesy of prompt, accurate and easy to read replies to their letters. Certainly I would see any move by government departments to improve their communication with the public to be most commendable. 
Sitting suspended from 5.52 to 8 p.m. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1978: 
What is the scheduled Ansett direct fare Thursday Island to Cooktown. 
On which days each week is there a direct Ansett Thursday Island to Cooktown flight. 
What is the scheduled Ansett Thursday Island to Cooktown fare via Weipa. 
On which days each week is there an Ansett flight from Thursday Island to Cooktown via Weipa. 
5 ) On which days each week is an Ansett Thursday Island to Cooktown passenger obliged to travel via Cairns. 
What is the scheduled fare Thursday Island to Cooktown if the passenger is obliged to travel via Cairns. 
If there is any difference in the fares for ( 1 ), (3) and (6), what is the reason for the difference. 
-I present the following petition from 1,425 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the State/Territory of Queensland respectfully showeth: 
That compensation benefits payable to injured Australian Government employees and Defence Forces personnel under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 1971 should be increased as a matter of urgency in view of the financial plight of recipients, particularly those suffering long term incapacity and because of the significant increase in the cost of living which has occurred since compensation payments were last adjusted; and 
That statutory provision should be made for the automatic adjustment of compensation benefits. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport inform the Senate whether any study has been undertaken or is being undertaken to determine the feasibility or otherwise of an amalgamation of Qantas Airways Ltd and Trans-Australia Airlines, a takeover of TAA by Qantas or some other way by which the two airlines may be merged? If such a study has been undertaken, can the Minister give details of any progress which has been made? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Special Trade Representations, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
1 ) How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did (he Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Has any approach been made to the Commonwealth Government from the Queensland Government since 1 1 November 1975 to allow oil drilling or prospecting on the Great Barrier Reef. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
1 ) Did an article in the Brisbane  Telegraph,  9 February 1979, state that 'the Federal Government's delay in making available the Belmont rifle range as a Games site has thrown into turmoil the Commonwealth Games Foundation 's preparations and plans'. 
What is the current position in relation to the negotiations over the Belmont range. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications a question which refers to the economy rates for subscriber trunk dialling telephone calls which are made between 9 p.m. and 8 a.m. I point out that, when Queensland telephone subscribers wish to call telephone subscribers in southern States at times when daylight saving operates, the earliest a connection can be made at economy rates in the evening is 10 o'clock eastern summer time. This occurs because Queensland does not adhere to a system of daylight saving. Will the Minister ask Telecom Australia to investigate whether it will be possible to vary appropriately the times for economy STD rates in Queensland when daylight saving time next operates in the southern States? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Did the Trans-Australia Airlines timetable effective from 29 October 1978 indicate that on Sundays a BrisbaneBundabergGladstone flight would depart from Brisbane at 8.30 a.m.; if so: 
on which Sundays between 29 October 1978 and 18 February 1979 inclusive did this service not operate; 
why did it not operate on each of those occasions; and 
was an approach made to any other airline to provide a substitute service. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasion; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, is prompted by the situation in which a couple, both aged over 70 years, find themselves. They own a property, but they have been able to receive the full age pension because they have sustained losses over the last few years and have a current debt of about $40,000. They have now sold some cattle to take advantage of the current beef prices. It is likely, therefore, that they will make a profit this year. In applying the income test, will this couple's previous losses and their consequent debt be taken into account, or is the income test based solely on current income? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
Does the Department of Administrative Services pay the departure tax for all Ministers who leave Australia; if so, why, and does the same procedure prevail for other Members of Parliament; if not, why was the departure tax paid by the Department of Administrative Services for the Ministers for Trade and Resources, as indicated in the answer to Senate Question No. 1 1 43. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 20 February 1 979: 
How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Did a statement in the  Catholic Leader,  17 December 1978, indicate that a letter to the Minister on 27 October 1978 'had not even received a routine acknowledgement': if so, is the assertion correct: if correct, why did this occur. 
asked the Minister represent  ing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
When may I expect a reply to the question I asked in the Senate on 17 November 1978 in relation to economy rates for booked long-distance calls(Hansard, page 2 180). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
Which airports serviced by either Trans Australia Airlines Ltd or Ansett Airlines of Australia Ltd do not have a public telephone. 
-I present the following petition form 339 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
That compensation benefits payable to injured Australian Government employees and Defence Forces personnel under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 1 97 1 should be increased as a matterof urgency in view of the financial plight of recipients, particularly those suffering long term incapacity and because of the significant increase in the cost of living which has occurred since compensation payments were last adjusted; and 
That statutory provision should be made for the automatic adjustment of compensation benefits. 
And your petitioners as in d u ty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and refer to Question on Notice No. 1006 in which I asked: 
Which airports serviced by either Trans-Australia Airlines or Ansett Airlines of Australia do not have a public telephone? 
I received a reply which listed 1 1 Queensland centres including, incidentally, Thursday Island which does not have an airport. I ask whether only Queensland airports serviced by TAA and Ansett are without public telephone facilities or whether I was supplied with details for Queensland only. 
-Does the Minister representing the Prime Minister see any conflict in Queensland's receipt of an average of just over $20m each year for the past three years from the Commonwealth Grants Commission when it forgoes such traditional revenues as death duties and road maintenance tax? Does the statement of the Premier of Queensland in today's  Australian Financial Review  that 'we are a rapidly growing State and our revenue is increasing' suggest that the time has come for Queensland to stop crying poor and to cease to be a claimant State? 
This evening I wish to raise briefly an issue which is of concern to some Cleveland residents and nearby residents of the Cleveland area. For those who are not aware of the geography of Queensland, I point out that Cleveland is a suburb on the coast towards the southern end of Moreton Bay. The only reason that I find it necessary to raise this matter tonight is that the Cleveland residents to whom I have referred have tried to obtain information in relation to the Commonwealth Employment Service office in Cleveland and have been unable to obtain the information they require. Recently, an office of the Commonwealth Employment Service was opened at Cleveland. I am informed that prior to its opening the Wynnum office of the Commonwealth Employment Service attended to those problems which needed attention in the Cleveland area. One area about which the people of Cleveland are concerned is that it took such a long time to open the Commonwealth Employment Service office. I am informed that accommodation was leased perhaps six months or more prior to the Commonwealth Employment Service office being opened at Cleveland. The people were concerned that a great number of unemployed young people in the Cleveland area perhaps were not receiving the same attention they would have received had there been a local Commonwealth Employment Service office. It was all right in some respects for them to be looked after by the Wynnum Commonwealth Employment Service office, but that office is some distance from Cleveland. The people of Cleveland thought that if there was a nearby office their young people would receive greater attention than if they had to be looked after from Wynnum. 
It was also suggested to me by people in the area that some other office space is leased by the Commonwealth in the same building as the Commonwealth Employment Service office at Wynnum. There is no indication as to why this is leased or by what department it is to be used. The people who spoke to me about the establishment of the Commonwealth Employment Service office were concerned that a great deal of 
Commonwealth funds had been paid out for six months or more before the CES office was opened at Cleveland, and they are concerned now that money is being paid out for other accommodation within the same building that is not being used by the Commonwealth. It is not being used by anybody. I imagine that this has nothing to do with the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner).  I might be able to obtain some information from the Department of Administrative Services if it is paying for the accommodation that currently is not being used. 
Also of concern in the Cleveland area is the closure of the Community Youth Support Scheme office. Local residents claim that the CYSS did not get the official support that it deserved in Cleveland. That is possible because, again, the Wynnum office had to look after it. The CYSS office closed down, and some Cleveland residents think that perhaps there was a lack of foresight on the part of the Commonwealth Employment Service in not fostering this while they were waiting for an office to be opened at Cleveland. They think that if the Cleveland office had opened earlier the CYSS might have continued to operate efficiently. 
This evening I would like to pose some questions, and I am hopeful that the relevant department will be able to answer them in due course. I would not expect answers to be given in an adjournment debate. Perhaps the department could have a look at the questions and provide me with the answers. I would be able then to pass on the answers to the residents, who have a genuine concern. I ask: When were the premises that are currently being occupied by the CES at Cleveland first leased? What was the cost of the leased space while unoccupied? What is the cost of the other space being leased in the same building and for what will it be used? I realise here that it may be the Department of Administrative Services that will look at this particular question. A further question is: Why was there so much delay in establishing the Cleveland CES office when space was available? Finally, how much was spent on the CYSS in Cleveland and why was it disbanded? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
Has the Minister checked whether the Minister for Finance gave any information to the Department of Social Security about the unemployed persons to whom he referred in the February 1979 issue of the  Australian Liberal,  since her undertaking to do so in the answer to a question asked in the Senate on 1 March 1979 (see  Hansard,  1 March 1979, page 401 ); if so, did the Minister for Finance give any such information to the Minister's Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 March 1979: 
1 ) When was the curfew broken at the Brisbane Airport from 1 January 1 979 to 28 February 1979. 
What were the times of take-off or landing, as appropriate, in each case. 
3 ) What was the reason for the breaking of the curfew in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 March 1979: 
What were the times of take-off or landing, as appropriate, for the 26 cases mentioned in part (2) of the answer to Senate Question No. 1 141. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) Where in each State and Territory arc there full acoustic facilities at which pensioners may obtain a hearing aid service. 
In which centres in each State and Territory are full facilities made available on a part-time basis and what is the number of.days per year on which those facilities are made available. 
3 ) What has been the increase or decrease in (1 ) and ( 2 ) since 1 1 November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions: if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) How many times has the Prime Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Prime Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
Toward the end of last year I made a visit to Thursday Island. It was not the first time that I had been on Thursday Island. On the occasion that I visited it last year, I was informed by some local residents that a radio service was about to begin. I thought that this was very good news because the people on Thursday Island cannot normally tune in to mainland radio stations, especially during the day. This means that Thursday Island residents find it very difficult to keep up with current events. They cannot listen to news broadcasts very well. The information given to me that a radio service was about to begin seemed to be a forward step for Thursday Island. On my return from that visit last year,  I  asked a question in the Parliament to ascertain when the service would begin. I will quote the question that I asked and the answer that was given to me. I asked: 
1 ) What work remains to bc carried out before a radio service is available to residents of Thursday Island. 
When is it anticipated that a radio service will bc available on Thursday Island. 
I think that it is worth while recounting to the Senate the answers that I received. The answer to the first part of the question was: 
The following work in relation to the Thursday Island broadcasting station remains to bc carried out: 
Installation of transportable equipment shelter, with transmitters  pre-installed.  which will bc shipped to site in January. 
Construction of combining system, which is about to commence, and modifications to radiator schedule for January. 
The answer to the second part of the question that I asked, relating to when the radio service would be available to residents of Thursday Island, was: 
Completion of works mentioned in ( I ) should allow radio broadcasts to commence by the end of April 1979. 
During the parliamentary recess and after Easter, I visited Thursday Island again. It was not quite the end of April, which was the time suggested by the answer to that question that the radio service would be available but I took the opportunity of taking a small transistor radio with me in the hope that the radio service would be operating and that I would be able to obtain news broadcasts while I was on Thursday Island. I was most surprised when I stepped onto Thursday Island, because one of the first questions which was directed to me was: 'Where is your radio station?'. The question was put to me because apparently the radio station or the radio service is nowhere near completion at this stage. At least, it was not one week ago when I left Thursday Island. This does not surprise me greatly because there were major disruptions on Thursday Island and in the tropics in the early part of this year due to the weather conditions, lt may be because of those events that the radio service is not on schedule. 
Nevertheless, I sent a copy of the answer to the question that I had asked following my visit last year to the people on Thursday Island. Eventually, it appeared in the  Torres News.  The  Torres News  is not a widely circulated newspaper- it has a circulation of only about 600- but it is widely read in the Torres Strait area. It was because of the report in the  Torres News  that the people of that Island thought they would have a radio service by about now. But they see, of course, that it is not near completion. This evening I wish to ask some questions about this radio service. I do not expect immediate answers but I would ask for the answers to be supplied as promptly as possible so that the people on Thursday Island will know when the service may commence. My first question is: When will broadcasts begin from this service on Thursday Island? Secondly, will there be facilities for local broadcasts or will this radio service be a relay station? For the benefit of people who live on islands in Torres Strait nearby to Thursday Island I ask: What will bc the effective range of the broadcasts from this Thursday Island radio service? 
My reason for asking this question is that it may mean that some islands to the north of Thursday Island will also receive the service. I do not expect to receive answers tonight but I hope that they will be soon forthcoming so that the people of Thursday Island and people in the Torres Strait area north of Thursday Island will know what service they will get and when to expect it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Did the  Sunday Sun.  7 January 1979, report a statement by  Mr Trevor  Ives, a former director of the Community Youth Support Scheme (CYSS) at Redcliffe, that CYSS had become a 'coffee shop-type hideaway to keep jobless kids out of sight of the voters': if so. is there any evidence which shows that  Mr Ives'  statement is not correct. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Did the  Sunday Mail  10 December 1978, report a statement by a Trans-Australia Airlines (TAA) 'spokesman' that, for the Christmas Season, 'despite the extra services and larger aircraft, seating was still barely available'. 
) Was a TAA aircraft not in use due to a deliberate management decision at this time; if so, is the Minister satisfied that the aircraft should have remained withdrawn from service. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Is Qantas required to return the government a dividend not less than the long term bond rate, as claimed in the  Bulletin,  23 January 1979; if so, when was this directive issued; if not, what dividend return is required of Qantas. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 March 1979: 
Do Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia pay airport charges at every stop whilst overseas airlines do not, as stated in the  Gold Coast Bulletin,  8 March 1979. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 20 March 1979: 
Did the University of Queensland Vice-Chancellor's 1978 report state: 'We have acute accommodation problems in Psychology, Education, Law, Student Services, Computer Science and many other departments'; if so, when can the University of Queensland expect to receive funds to provide this necessary accommodation. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
Are members of the public able to operate cheque accounts on the Reserve Bank of Australia; if so, what conditions must be complied with before an individual person can operate a cheque account on the Reserve Bank of Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
Did Commonwealth Police at one time remove all  Dr White  's patient history cards, as claimed in the  Sunday Mail,  18 March 1979; if so, what measures have been taken to ensure that such an occurrence is not repeated, in view ofthe suggestion by  Dr White's  husband that 'these cards are a patient's private property, and their absence could have put a patient's life in jeopardy '. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
Have any Commonwealth Police vehicles carried a Commonwealth Police identification and also carried Queensland number plates since January 1979; if so: 
how many vehicles were involved and does this mean that part (3) of the answer to Senate Question No. 1242  (Hansard,  20 March 1979, page 792) was to some extent incorrect: and 
what is the point of issuing Queensland number plates to a vehicle which is clearly marked as a Commonwealth Police vehicle. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 29 March 1979: 
Are some Commonwealth vehicles supplied with a radio as standard equipment: if so, arc many of these radios removed owing to a policy that most Commonwealth vehicles should not have a radio. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 3 April 1 979: 
1 ) What are the current insurance rates under the Defence Service Homes Insurance Scheme in each State and Territory. 
What is the cost in each State and Territory, excluding fire brigade charges, of insuring a home for $30,000. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 3 April 1 979: 
1 ) For how long have separate details been available for the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory in relation to the information provided for the various States in the answer to Senate Question No. 448 (see  Hansard.  9-10 June 1978, pages 2822 and 2823). 
What arc the receipts and payments for(a) the Northern Territory: and (b) the Australian Capital Territory, in relation to the Defence Service Homes Insurance Scheme for the periods for which the information has been available. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) What non-Government Business Colleges in each State and Territory arc receiving or will receive grants in 1979. 
What arc the approved courses for which grants may be paid in each of these colleges. 
I direct a question to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as the Minister representing the Prime Minister although I acknowledge the fact that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs might rather give an answer. I refer to a statement in the  Courier-Mail of 27  April 1979 by  Mr Porter,  the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islander Advancement, that the supply of mains electricity in the Torres Strait area 'would always be a problem until the Federal Government made promised funds available'. Has the Federal Government promised funds for this purpose, and, if so, why have they not yet been made available? 
-This evening I wish to use the Senate as a forum to defend a person who was attacked unreasonably in this morning's edition of the  Courier-Mail.  I will be speaking about a Brisbane City Council alderman during my speech this evening, and I point out that Brisibane City Council aldermen hold positions which are almost similar to those held by State members of parliament. I should explain what I mean: Brisbane City Council aldermen, unlike a large number of aldermen throughout Australia, are full time aldermen. Their wards in Brisbane cover a little more area than State electorates and one can regard them almost as members of a small State parliament. Of course, they do not have the same rights and privileges as members of a State parliament. I outline this to indicate that the person about whom I am going to speak this evening should have sufficient political knowledge not to do what he did when he reported to the  Courier-Mail. 
The person to whom I refer is Alderman Olsen. He is a Liberal member of the Brisbane City Council. I believe that, in reporting to the  Courier-Mail,  what he did was to stoop low to tell a warped story in an attempt just to get some cheap political points for himself. I will read to the Senate the article to which I refer. It is headed: 'Council "jobs for the girls" claim'. Immediately below that heading is a photograph of  Mrs Eileen  Slack and Alderman Olsen. The article states: 
The Brisbane City Council apparently was finding jobs for Tailed Labor candidates in the March Council elections, Alderman Olsen. ( Lib., Camp Hill ) said yesterday. 
He said the failed Labor candidate for his ward,  Mrs Eileen  Slack recently was made a typist with the council's City Administration Department. 

 Mrs Slack had been given preference over a younger but adequately trained person, he claimed. lt was an example of 'jobs for the boys, or at least jobs for the girls.' he said. 
Many applicants for jobs with the council waited weeks for a reply, yet  Mrs Slack  had her appointment confirmed only two weeks after the announcement of her defeat in the election. Alderman Olsen said. 
This is what Alderman Olsen claimed. I claim that Alderman Olsen has twisted the facts to suit his own purpose. In fact, what he has said borders on being false. 
What are the facts? Last Monday  Mrs Eileen  Slack started working for Alderman Joe St Ledger.  Her  job was in his ward office. She was classified as a typist. Alderman Joe St Ledger is a new alderman. He was elected at the council election held in late March this year. The ward which he represents was previously held by another Labor alderman. Joe St Ledger is a Labor alderman and the previous alderman, Alderman Rowland, was also a Labor alderman. Alderman Rowland retired at the time of the council election and did not seek re-election. 
It was mentioned in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail  article that  Mrs Slack  had been given preference over a younger but adequately trained person. That is what Alderman Olsen said. A younger person did work for Alderman Rowland before he retired. She was on leave when Alderman St Ledger took over as alderman for the ward. Never at any time did this younger person to whom  Mr Olsen  referred work for Alderman St Ledger. After Alderman St Ledger was elected to the Brisbane City Council, he was subsequently elected by his fellow Labor aldermen to be  Chairman  of Works. This meant that he would have a work load heavier than that of most aldermen. He was appointed to a position which we, in our situation, would compare with that of a Minister. The work load, I should imagine, would not be anything like the work load for a Minister in this Parliament or in a State parliament, but certainly he would have an extra work load as  Chairman  of Works. 
Alderman St Ledger realised he would have this extra work load and would not be able to give as much attention to his ward as he would had he not been appointed  Chairman  of Works. Therefore, it was important for him to make sure that he had as his secretary in his ward an experienced person who would be able to look after problems that arose in his office during his absence while attending to his other duties, especially his duties as  Chairman  of Works. Because he needed such an experienced person, about one week after he was elected he approached  Mrs Slack.  Why did he approach  Mrs Slack?  I think that it is important to recount this episode. He approached her only because he realised that she was a person who had the experience to be able to help him greatly in his ward office. 
I know of at least two other positions which  Mrs Slack  held and how very well she performed in them. At one time  Mrs Slack  was secretary to  Mr Brian  Davis, who is a member of the Legislative Assembly in Queensland. She worked for  Mr Davis  for a long time and worked very well for him. Also, on occasions  Mrs Slack  has worked for me too as a relieving secretary. I could not have hoped for a better person to act as a relieving secretary in my office. I was in Canberra for most of the time that she was in my office as a relieving secretary and, for some reason, at that time we had an unprecedented workload in my office. She coped well with the workload and I could not have hoped for anyone better. 

 Mrs Slack's experience would have proved very helpful in working for Alderman Joe St Ledger in his ward office. That is why he approached her about the appointment. At that time,  Mrs Slack  had received offers of two other jobs, so she thought for some time about whether she should accept the position offered to her by Alderman St Ledger. She took one week to decide to accept that position. I reiterate that  Mrs Slack  had experience in that type of work she would have to do. In that position she would have come into contact with work similar to work she has handled before. I point out also that  Mrs Slack  has good secondary school qualifications. It is not as though Alderman St Ledger put into the job someone who did not have good qualifications. 
The job was not created for her. The job would be somewhat analogous to the job of secretaries to members of parliament. We have the opportunity to appoint our secretaries, to choose the person we wish to work for us. Alderman Olsen seems to suggest that non-successful election candidates should not be offered any work. That reminds me of something which happened to me when I was a State public servant in Queensland. 1 was a non-successful candidate on a couple of occasions and I found it very difficult to get work afterwards. Alderman Olsen should be a little more liberal. He should realise that people should not be barred from working simply because they are unsuccessful candidates. Alderman Olsen seems to suggest also that members of parliament or members of the Brisbane City Council should not be able to choose their staff. 
I simply state this evening that Alderman Olsen did not relate the truth when he made his statement to the  Courier-Mail.  He twisted the story to suit his own purposes. He should be ashamed of the conduct leading to his denigration of  Mrs Slack  in the article in the  CourierMail.  If he wants to get the facts- I think he would have them already- they are easily obtainable. I suggest that he should get all the facts at his disposal and see whether he then agrees with what was printed in the  Courier-Mail  this morning. I believe that an apology should be forthcoming from Alderman Olsen. If he continues to act as he has in trying to take cheap political tricks by running down a person who was a very good candidate when she opposed him in the last Brisbane City Council election, he will find that after the next election he will no longer be an alderman. I reiterate that I find the article offensive. 1 find it offensive because in it a person was attacked in a manner in which she should not have been attacked. She was attacked unfairly. I feel so strongly about the matter that I have used this forum to explain that  Mrs Slack  has done nothing out of the ordinary. She has done nothing of which she should be ashamed. Alderman Olsen should be ashamed of his conduct. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
Are there any comparative figures for vandalism and for conviction of vandals in relation to public telephones in major cities in Australia; if so. what are the figures available. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Does Australia Post have any plans to sell stamp albums and/or First Day Cover Albums; if so (a) what are the details of these plans; and (b) has any assessment been made of the adverse economic consequences such plans will have for Australian Stamp Dealers who now rely on sales of stamp albums and First Day Cover Albums to provide part of their income. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
) Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all occasions; if not. why not. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to an advertisement which appeared in the  Courier-Mail  on. 1 1 December 1975 headed 'You will get two pension rises a year! ' Amongst other things, the advertisement stated that the Liberals would automatically increase pensions every six months and urged readers to vote Liberal. Will the Minister refer this advertisement to the Trade Practices Commission as a blatantly misleading advertisement? If the Minister cannot refer this material to the Trade Practices Commission because of some aspect of the Trade Practices Act, will he seek an amendment to the Act so that the pensioners of Australia are not again deliberately misled by the Liberal Party? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
Does the Prime Minister understand that Senators for Queensland are parliamentary representatives for the Torres Strait area; if so, why was a  Senator for  Queensland not included in the party which attended discussions in the Torres Strait region concerning the Torres Strait Treaty during the week ending 4 November 1978, as indicated by the Prime Minister's reply to Senate Question No. 1 1 10  (Hansard,  27 February 1979, page 32 1 ). 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) Did an article in the  Sunday Sun,  4 February 1979, report that Queensland State Members of Parliament are having their electorate allowances taxed; if so: (a) are these allowances being taxed; and (b) are the electorate allowances of Members of other Parliaments being taxed or about to be taxed. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) How many times has the Treasurer left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Treasurer pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. Does the present mothers or guardians allowance for age, invalid and widow pensioners and for supporting parents beneficiaries currently stand at $4 a week, or $6 a week if a child is under six years of age or is an invalid child requiring full time care? Would it not be reasonable to expect that as a child becomes older greater expense is incurred by the guardian? If this assumption is reasonable, what is the reason for a $2-a-week reduction in the guardians allowance when a child reaches the age of six years? 
-by leave- I had intended to speak to the motion that the Senate take note of the statement, but the opportunity did not present itself. That is why I sought leave to speak. I must say at the outset that when speaking about Australian flags, I do not intend this afternoon to raise the issue of the Kingaroy School. But I do raise a few parts of the statement which has been put down. First of all, I would like to find out, through the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney),  whether the cassettes and the flags that are made available for distribution to schools are Australian made. I would hope that they would be. 
I think it is a valid question for any honourable senator to ask whether our Australian flags and cassettes that are on distribution to various organisations are, in fact, manufactured in Australia. I am very pleased to see in this statement that the Department of Administrative Services is now to supply flags in different sizes. This matter was brought to my attention recently by a group that wanted to have its flag installed inside a scout hall. It could not fit the normal sized flag in and, therefore, it wanted a smaller flag. 
I join my colleague from the other side,  Senator Jessop,  in deprecating these senseless remarks of some honourable senators who seem to be taking this as a jocular issue. The Australian flag is not a jocular issue. I support a comment that my colleague  Senator Georges  made a short time ago.  Senator Georges  said that it should be a practice for honourable members and honourable senators to be given an issue of flags so that when they are moving around they can present them without having to make a written application and then present them later on. I recently made a request along these lines. I visited a remote area of Queensland in which there were a number of small schools and youth organisations. I anticipated before I went that a number of these places could be presented with a flag, so I put in a request to the Department of Education, which at that time had the responsibility of issuing flags, to see whether 1 could take about 12 flags with me. I was told that this was outside the guidelines, and I was not able to do so. I did visit this area and, when I came back, I found I had to make an application for about 10 flags. It would seem to me that the suggestion which 

 Senator Georges has made, and which I will reiterate, is one that should be acknowledged by the Government. Perhaps in certain circumstances flags can be made available before an application is received from an organisation. I was about to say that as the debate had come back to a level which was not jocular, I should end my remarks. However, judging from the remarks of some honourable senators, the debate has come back to a jocular state, but I have finished my remarks anyway. 

 Senator CHANEY (Western AustraliaMinister for Aboriginal Affairs and Minister Assisting the Minister for Education)- by leave- I think that  Senator Button  has been adequately answered by the various speakers, including  Senator Georges, Senator Colston  and, from the Government side,  Senator Jessop.  I know that many honourable senators take the issue of flags and cassettes very seriously indeed.  Senator Mcintosh,  who is in the chamber now, is one honourable senator who takes the matter seriously. When I was Minister for Administrative Services and since,  Senator Mcintosh  has spoken to me about the question of flag issues and the issue of cassettes in very positive terms. 

 Senator Button's comments reflect the sort of concern which was expressed in the 1940s about the influence of  Boy's Own  paper and such things on the attitudes of children. There are some interesting points made which I think at some future time the Senate might be able to debate about the extent to which we should be encouraging nationalism and other such things. I think the statement which I put down on behalf of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  comes in response to the representations of many members of parliament, that they would like to have seen the old rules extended. I suspect that others such as  Senator Douglas  McClelland, who probably had the conduct of this area at one stage, would have received similar requests from senators and members. If honourable senators look at the list of organisations to which flags are to be issued, they will see that these organisations very properly might acknowledge some sense of nationality and use a flag in a way that all senators and members would think appropriate. The list includes service clubs, welfare organisations, the Red Cross Society, Legacy, homes for the handicapped, church and religious bodies, ethnic organisations and sporting clubs. I would have thought that it was in the national interest that these requests should receive proper attention from the Government and that this symbol of nationalism should be available to these organisations. 
I do not raise any large objections to this motion because I presume that there has been some agreement between the Whips and the leaders on both sides of the chamber. I point out that General Business matters were due to be debated tonight. In fact, page 3293 of the Notice Paper states that General Business is to take precedence of Government Business after 8 p.m. I think it is important that we do not lose sight of the fact that Thursday nights are the usual time set aside for General Business. Back benchers in this chamber have set aside for them certain ways in which they can raise issues which they think are important. We can speak on the adjournment debate at night and we can speak on first readings of certain money Bills. But if we have something of substance that we wish to move, we have the option of either moving an item of General Business or moving a private member's Bill. Items of General Business are an important avenue for back benchers to move issues which they think are important. 
I suppose I have some direct involvement in the motion that has been moved by  Senator Chaney  because the first notice of motion on the Notice Paper at the moment is one that I moved on 28 February this year. I am hopeful that it will be discussed before we rise for the winter recess. This is the issue that I wish to pursue when speaking to the motion. I notice that in yesterday's  Hansard  the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Carrick,  said: 
Tomorrow - 
That is today- 
I will move that Government Business take precedence of General Business after 8 p.m. We may have to consider similar action in the coming weeks also. 
It worries me that between now and the winter recess there will not be any time set aside for the debating of General Business. I make the point that even though the Government might be trying to get legislation through this chamber between now and the winter recess, it should consider that the back benchers are interested in pursuing particular courses of action. They are not interested in doing this just to hold up legislation of the Government. They are interested in doing so because they have a genuine interest in the matters. I have a genuine interest in this motion. I have had a great amount of discussions with various organistions throughout Queensland about this motion. These people expect me to move it. As I mentioned to my Whip during the week, they expect me to get a vote on it in this chamber. I just want to make the comment that I do not object to General Business being set aside tonight. But if we set aside General Business between now and the recess and my motion of 28 February this year cannot come on until the Budget session, I will be very disappointed indeed. I ask the Government to give this matter every consideration that it can. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 20 February 1 979: 
Was consideration recently given to re-siting a public telephone at Colinton, Queensland, if so, what was the reason for the proposed re-siting. 
Were opinions sought from any community organisations about the proposed re-siting, if so: 
what are the names of the organisations; and 
b) what was the response of any such organisations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) Was consideration recently given to re-siting public telephones at Lowood Post Office in Queensland; if so, (a) what was the reason for the proposed re-siting. 
Were opinions sought from any community organisations about the proposed re-siting; if so, (a) what were the names of any such organisations; and (b) what was the response of any such organisations. 
Only 13 days ago I was very disappointed that when there was an opportunity to debate in this chamber the Government's pension policy the Government cut short the debate. I refer to the debate we had when a matter of urgency was brought forward by my colleague, 

 Senator Grimes. I share with  Senator Harradine  the concern he expressed on a sitting day shortly before the Senate last rose, that the General Business item he has on the Notice Paper will not be debated before the next Budget session. I remind honourable senators that that General Business item reads: 
That the Senate calls on the Government to introduce sixmonthly indexation of repatriation and social security benefits, in particular, pensions and family allowances. 
I believe, as  Senator Harradine  believes, that it is important that this chamber has the opportunity to debate that motion and to express an opinion on it. As it is, we will not have an opportunity to do that until after the Budget is presented in August. That will be a little late for the Senate as a whole to express an opinion on this motion regarding the indexation of pensions. 
A great wave of resentment is sweeping this country in relation to the Fraser Government's treatment of social security recipients. If we in the Opposition did not report this resentment to the Parliament, and if we did not raise this matter in the Parliament, we would be derelict in our duty. This is one of the reasons for my speaking on this matter tonight. I can remember an occasion well before I became a member of this chamber when pensioners were given a miserly 50c a week increase in a Federal Budget. I can also remember the community's disgust with the Government's attitude on that occasion. That 50c a week increase was regarded at that time as nothing more than a cynical gesture towards the pensioner. Nowadays the same feeling exists throughout Australia. The public has quite clearly shown that it is disgusted with the Government's reneging on its indexation promises. Not many, if any, actions of this Government have created so much anger within the community. 
The indexation of pensions has been canvassed extensively in this chamber and in the House of Representatives. Therefore, I do not intend to canvass it at any great length today. That does not mean that the matter is unimportant; it is vitally important to a large section of the community. It is not an issue which should be brushed aside in a cavalier fashion, as  Senator Durack  did two weeks ago when I asked him a question on this subject. It is a matter that this Government will have to consider carefully- I believe it must consider it carefully- in its current Budget deliberations. Even though the indexation of pensions has been canvassed widely in this Parliament, I intend to mention two matters in relation to the Government's broken promises on indexation. 
On 27 April this year I attended by invitation a meeting of a pensioner group in the Queensland provincial city of Bundaberg. I should add that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who was in Bundaberg on that day was also invited to that meeting. I believe that a certain government senator was also invited to the meeting. Neither the Prime Minister nor that government senator accepted the invitation. I was quite happy to accept the invitation to go along to speak to the pensioners and to answer any questions they might have had. One of my colleagues in the House of Representatives also accepted an invitation to go to that meeting. 
-The Prime Minister was invited to that meeting, but even though he was in Bundaberg he would neither attend the meeting nor meet with a representative group of those pensioners. At the meeting the pensioners unanimously condemned the Government for its refusal to index pensions on a twice yearly basis. But the strength of their feeling was evident by the way in which they showed how very strongly they felt about this matter. At one stage, after condemning the Government's recent policy of not indexing pensions on a twice yearly basis, they spontaneously took to the streets of Bundaberg to voice their protest. As I watched those pensioners march I felt proud of them, and I was proud of the resolute way in which they voiced their protest against the Government. 
lt was quite a resolute way in which they did this, because the street march was not approved as  Senator Gietzelt  has suggested. Those honourable senators who know of the Queensland street march regulations know what these pensioners had before them, or thought they might have had before them, as a result of them marching in the streets of Bundaberg. 
They were taking a great risk, but they thought the risk was worth while because that was the way in which they wanted to voice their protest against the policies of this Government. I was very proud of them as 1 watched them march through the streets, and as they marched to the council chambers where they handed to the Mayor of the City of Bundaberg a protest which they asked him to forward to the Prime Minister- the Prime Minister who was in the city that day but who had refused to attend the pensioners' meeting or to meet a delegation of the people who had gathered there. 
The second matter which I wish to mention in relation to twice yearly indexation, concerns an incident which occurred when I recently visited Toowoomba. On Queensland Labor Day this year, which was 7 May, I went to the provincial city of Toowoomba. While I was there a pensioner approached me and said:  'Senator, can  you not do something for the pensions? With no rise in our pension our standard of living is dropping week by week. Each week there are more price increases and our pensions buy less and less'. This pensioner went on to tell me how difficult the situation had become. I believe that his plight is similar to that of pensioners throughout Australia. Why would the situation as he outlined it to me not be difficult? The last consumer price index increase which was taken into account for pensioners was that of June 1978- almost 12 months ago. Since then there have been consumer price index increases of 1.9 per cent in September 1978, 2.3 per cent in December 1 978 and 1 .7 per cent in March of this year. None of these increases, that is the 1.9 per cent, the 2.3 per cent and the 1.7 per cent, has yet been taken into account for the purposes of adjusting pensions. 
Today we had notice that there had been food price increases of an unprecedented size when compared with recent years throughout Australia. Today we were told that between March and April this year there had been an average of a 3.1 per cent increase in food prices throughout Australia. Of course, in some places it was greater than 3.1 per cent. In Sydney, it was 3.9 per cent. Here in Canberra it was 4.2 per cent. In my city of Brisbane there was a 2.4 per cent increase in prices. If there was a 2.4 per cent increase in the price of food in one month in Brisbane, then I imagine that this situation would be reflected throughout the whole of Queensland. We must remember that once we get out of Brisbane and into the rural areas of Queensland, food is more expensive. Yet the pensioners are faced with these sorts of increases. The same Bureau of Statistics publication which was issued today showed that the weighted average increase over 12 months for the six capital cities was 14 per cent. In my city of Brisbane, which happened to be the lowest, there was an 1 1 .4 per cent increase. Why do things not become difficult for pensioners when this sort of thing occurs? Yet now the pensioners will have to wait until November to catch up with these sorts of increases and with the sorts of increases which I mentioned just a few minutes ago in relation to the consumer price index. 
It is very easy for members of the House of Representatives and for honourable senators to sit here, to receive a comfortable salary and to imagine that the pensioners do not require indexation of their pensions. I am not too proud to admit that I know what their situation is like. Both my parents are age pensioners so I know the sort of thing that they are going through. As well, I had experience in the early 1970s of trying to live on $19 a week unemployment benefit while supporting a wife and child. It was not very easy at that time. But looking back, I am glad that I had that opportunity because I know what it is like for pensioners nowadays. Regrettably- I say that advisedly- many honourable senators on the Government side have not had such an experience and they would not know what it is like. Earlier this month- to be precise, on 6 May- I read the Sunday morning paper in Brisbane and I was dismayed to read an article which was headed: 'Savage welfare cuts likely in Budget'. Whilst this was some two weeks or more ago I shall read from some parts of the article. It stated: 
The Fraser Government is considering savage cuts in welfare spending, including a means test on family allowances and pensions for people over 70 . . . The Prime Minister  (Mr Fraser)  is believed to have told the Ministers to prune every cent possible, lt is understood the committee will examine proposals: 
To impose a means test on family allowances. 
Reintroduce the means test for pensioners over 70. 
That is part of the article. As I have said, although the article is some two weeks old it is quite revealing to read it. If what the article states is correct, then that is alarming news. However, I believe that since the article was written the Government may have received the message of the widespread dismay that there is throughout the community. If the Government does change its mind, let us not have the spurious claim which we had last year that the Minister for Social Security won a battle within the Cabinet. On this occasion if there has been a win, it is a win for the pensioners of Australia who have shown that they have the will to go against the sorts of policies that were announced in the last Budget and which have really come into being this month when the pensioners should have had an increase in their pensions. 
Those who are dependent upon the Government for their livelihood- I include the age pensioners, the invalid pensioners, the widow pensioners, service pensioners and those on supporting parents benefits- should not bear the brunt of what the  Sunday Mail  called savage welfare cuts. If belts must be tightened- this is debatable- social security recipients and low income families should be the last to be considered as targets for the Government's austerity measures. I ask the Senate to allow me to reiterate. I hold that the need to exempt social security recipients from the type of punitive measures which the Government is bringing forward is a matter at which this Parliament should look with great urgency. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 6 March 1979: 
Does Federal Government policy prevent the introduction of cheap domestic air fares, as stated in the  Gold Coast Bulletin, &amp; Match  1979. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
Which members of Parliament represented the Prime Minister at the 1979 Anzac Day ceremonies in Queensland, and at what places. 
I ask the Minister for Education: Is the Education Research and Development Committee offering research training fellowships for 1 980? If so, are successful applicants to receive a tax free living allowance? If such a tax free living allowance is payable, why are Commonwealth post-graduate award holders required to pay tax when other postgraduate students are not? 
-I second the amendment. This evening the Senate is debating the Prices Justification Amendment Bill 1979. I had in mind that one of my duties when I rose was to second the amendment of my colleague,  Senator Tate.  So I am glad,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that you brought to his attention the need to move it. I point out for the benefit of those who are listening to the broadcast that I am the third  speaker  from the Australian Labor Party in this debate today. The opposition to the Bill was led by  Senator Walsh.  We have just heard  Senator Tate  outline certain aspects of the Bill with which the Opposition cannot agree. Before proceeding to a discussion of some aspects of the Bill I shall take my memory, and, I trust, the memories of many other senators, back to 1975. During the 1975 election campaign, the then caretaker Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, indicated quite clearly that he would abolish the Prices Justification Tribunal. Let us remind ourselves of what he said back in 1975. He said: 
We will abolish the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
Lest I be accused of selective quotation, I shall quote in full the relevant part of  Mr Fraser's  policy speech. It reads: 
We will abolish the Prices Justification Tribunal. It has presided over the worst inflation in our history, lt has damaged jobs. We will use the restrictive practices machinery to see that we have fair prices by competition not bureaucracy. There are many ways of achieving fair prices other than by Government direction. We need to understand that profits are necessary for investment, and investment is necessary for jobs. Profits will no longer be a dirty word. 
I quoted that part of the speech in full for two reasons: Firstly, so that I could not be accused of selective quotation, and, secondly, so that I could point out the errors in the statement.  Mr Fraser  did not point out that the worst inflation in our history occurred under the Menzies Government. In 195 1-52 there was a 22.5 per cent rate of inflation. Also, in that speech  Mr Fraser  made his philosophy quite clear. He was going to rid himself, the Government and, one suspects, many of his wealthy supporters of the presence of the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
The fact that the Prices Justification Tribunal still operates despite that 1975 promise is not surprising. After all, did not  Mr Fraser  at the same time say that he would retain Medibank? He retained it in name only, for Medibank is virtually gone. He promised to take politics out of pensions and promptly reintroduced politics into that area. He pledged that he would provide jobs for all, but unemployment keeps growing. Therefore it is not surprising that an election promise to abolish the Prices Justification Tribunal was not fulfilled. This Government's track record on promises is very poor indeed. I was attracted this morning to a cartoon which appeared in one of the daily newspapers. I think it is worth describing the cartoon for the benefit of those who are listening to the broadcast and who have not seen it. It depicts Malcolm Fraser in four separate poses. In the first pose he is saying: 
I Ve made a promise. 
Secondly, he says: 
And I 'm going to break it! 
The third thing he says is: 
And that's a promise!! 
Finally, he says: 
So I wouldn't worry too much  if I  were you. 
This cartoon typifies the way promises have been broken by this Government. As I said, it is not surprising that the Prices Justification Tribunal has not been abolished. On the other hand, perhaps the Prices Justification Tribunal is close to being abolished. Maybe it can be compared to Medibank in that it is being retained in name only. As honourable senators will recall, the Government's announcement of the proposed abolition of the Tribunal, as outlined in the 1975 policy speech, produced strong reaction in the community. Representation was received from many quarters- trade unions in particular- that the Prices Justification Tribunal be retained. In late 1976 the Government announced its intention to retain the Prices Justification Tribunal, but in a modified form. Subsequent legislation introduced in late 1976 contained a number of significant amendments. My colleague,  Senator Walsh,  has outlined many of these already, but probably the most significant of them were the following two: Firstly, an obligation to notify price increases was made applicable to companies with a $30m turnover. Previously, the figure was $20 m. It was estimated that the reduced obligation would reduce by half the number of companies having to notify price increases. Also in 1976, the exemptions from the Act were broadened. Much of the bite was removed from the Prices Justification Tribunal in the 1 976 legislation. 
Certainly, the Government's lack of enthusiasm for the Prices Justification Tribunal is evident in the staff cuts suffered by the Tribunal. Recently I put on the Notice Paper a question in relation to the average number of persons employed by the Prices Justification Tribunal. It was only in today's  Hansard  that the answer appeared. I think it is worth while outlining the information contained in the answer because it shows the continual diminution in the number of staff employed by the Prices Justification Tribunal. If there are fewer staff, obviously the Tribunal is going to do less work, it is going to look at cases in much less detail than before and it is going to take longer to do the jobs that it has to do. Let me cite some of the figures that were released in the answer to the question I put on notice. The average number of persons employed by the Tribunal in 1975-76 was 138. We remember that we had a Labor Government until 1 1 November 1975. In the following financial year, 1976-77, that figure was reduced to 119. A further reduction, from 119 to 108, occurred in the following financial year, 1977-78. By 3 April this year the figure of 108 had been reduced to 85. The Government's lack of enthusiasm for the whole concept of the Tribunal is evident in the staff cuts that have been made. 
What other conclusions may be drawn from the deliberate wasting away of the Prices Justification Tribunal? One of the main provisions of the Bill is the one to repeal sections 4 and 5 of the Act. These sections specify the size of companies and their subsidiaries which are required to notify prices. This means that, given passage of this Bill, there will be no requirement for prior notification.  Senator Walsh  and  Senator Tate,  who spoke before me in this debate, outlined some of the important consequences of these two changes, but let me outline two important consequences of the Bill: Effective price justification will not now be possible. There is no mechanism for effective monitoring of price increases, before and as they happen. The Tribunal is flying blind, all because of a Government imposed blindfold. Secondly, the necessity for firms to give notification for price increases was an important form of discipline. It forced them to consider whether the reason for a rise could be justified. Now there will be no such restraint. The passage of this Bill will mean that there will be nothing but imperfect market forces to prod the corporate conscience to give any consideration to the consumer. 
I must emphasise the extreme lack of consistency on the part of the Government. It continually states that wage and salary earners must justify any increase that they seek before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Most responsible wage and salary earners agree with that approach. Most responsible union officials agree with the approach that they should go before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission if they are seeking an increase for the members of their union. They cannot agree with the proposition that, while they have to justify their increases, companies can increase prices without justification. This is what will happen with the passage of this amending Bill. Is this consistency on the part of the Government? I do not believe that it is consistency, and wage and salary earners and unionists throughout the country do not believe that it is consistency either. I quoted earlier from the 1975 election speech of the caretaker Prime Minister. I again quote what he said: 
There are many ways of achieving fair prices other than by government arbitration. 
Let him tell that to the Australian housewife who has to use all her budgeting skills to make ends meet. She, unlike the Government, cannot practise deficit budgeting forever. Tell that to the Australian pensioners who have received such poor treatment from this Australian Government. They will not believe that there are good ways in which to achieve price stability other than by having a regulatory system such as that of prices justification set out to be. 
The Liberal Party has been promising for some time what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  promised in 1975, but its track record is not all that good. Even though I was only 1 1 years old in 1949, I can remember reading in some of the magazines that my mother bought the election promises of the Liberal Government of the day. These promises remained in my memory because in 1949 there was a change of government. That change in government was due in part to the type of advertisement that was delivered through the magazines and the newspapers which were read by the people at that time, I can remember this very well. 
When we started to look at the possibility of debating this amendment to the Prices Justification Act I sought out some of the actual advertisements that I would have read as a lad of 1 1 years of age. I went to the  Women's Weekly.  I recall very well that this was one of the magazines that I read at that time. Let me just read from the Women's Weekly of 24 September 1949. One of the advertisements in that issue read as follows: 
The cost of living must be reduced. 
It continued with a few other buzz words and then down at the bottom of the page it said: 
The Liberal Party will reduce living costs and increase real wages. 
In a moment I will show that that was another promise-admittedly it was made back in 1 949- which was not fulfilled. I am pointing out that the track record of this Government has not been good, even as far back as I can remember. 
Before turning to another of these advertisements which is equally revealing, let us just continue with the one from which I was quoting because I think that it is rather quaint to look back to 1949 and see what the Liberal Party said at that time. It said: 
The Liberal Party will reduce living costs and increase real wages by . . . 
How did it intend to do that? First of all, it was going to encourage and reward increased production. Fair enough. That seems to be a reasonable way of reducing living costs and increasing real wages. But the second way in which it intended to do that was by outlawing the communists. The third way in which it intended to do that was by introducing the system of secret ballots for union elections and decisions. In other words, it ended up as a very emotional type of advertisement. Let us have a look at another advertisement which appeared in the  Women's Weekly  of that time. An advertisement in the 12 November 1949 issue was headed: 'Ten Sound Reasons why Every Woman should Vote Liberal on December 10'. The first sound reason was: 
Under Liberal Government: the cost of living will be reduced. 
The honourable senator says: 'Quite right'. What rot! Let us have a look at what happened after that. If we look at the figures we will see what happened after the 1 949 election. In 1950-51 there was an increase of 13 per cent in the cost of living; in 1951-52 there was an increase of 22.5 per cent in the cost of living. Admittedly, the situation was much better in the following year, but in the year following that there was an increase of 9.4 per cent in the cost of living. I suppose that that was better in comparison with what had happened before, but it is still a shocking record. I point this out to show that this Government has not changed one bit since that time. The Liberal Party- the majority party on the other side of the chamber- has not changed one bit in that time. 
I turn now to some of the price movements that have occurred over the last three years. I am now referring to the comment made in 1975 by the  Mr Malcolm  Fraser that he was going to make things better, that he was going to reduce inflation, that he was going to get things on to a better keel throughout Australia. Let us look at some of the price increases that occurred between 1975 and 1978. Figures of this sort are usually produced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. I have here a comparison between December 1975 and December 1978 prices in relation to items that people buy for their homes. In December 1975, milk bottled and delivered in two 600 millilitre bottles cost 43c. In December 1978- that is a span of three years- it cost 53c; an extra 10c. This represents an increase of 23.3 per cent. In the same period butter increased from 80.2c to 94c for a 500-gram pack. This represents an increase of 1 7 per cent. I could go on. 
Over that three-year period the price of bread increased by 15 per cent; sugar by 35 per cent; eggs by 13 per cent; rump steak by 32 per cent; potatoes by 48 per cent; the price of a 500-gram pack of a particular type of breakfast cereal increased by 25 per cent. These are the types of increases that have occurred since the time whenMalcolm Fraser said that he was going to stabilise the economy and to keep prices down. He said he was going to do these things by abolishing the Prices Justification Tribunal. The housewife of Australia knows full well that she has had to contend with those price increases. 
Let us not forget what happened yesterday. Yesterday the Australian Bureau of Statistics put forward statistics which showed what had happened to food prices throughout Australia in only one month. In that one month, which was between March and April of this year, we had an average 3.1 per cent increase in food prices throughout the community. The increase in food prices in some States was even worse than that. We had a 3.9 per cent increase in Sydney and a 4.2 per cent increase in Canberra. In my capital city, the increase in food prices between March and April of this year was 2.4 per cent. What is more revealing in the statistics that were released yesterday is, over one year, the increases in food prices. These range from 1 1.4 per cent in Brisbane and Adelaide up to 16.7 per cent in Canberra. 
Let us just remember that when we are talking about food prices, we are talking about the food prices that the ordinary housewife has to pay and the prices that the person who brings home an ordinary wage packet, has to contend with. The situation is illustrated not only by the sorts of increases that there were in the capital cities. Many people who live in Canberra and in the Australian capital cities quite conveniently forget sometimes that, if one moves outside the capital cities, one pays even more for basic foods. Let me just illustrate this example by referring to three places in Queensland again using Australian Bureau of Statistics figures which show how difficult it is to live in certain places in Australia. I refer to Cooktown, Thursday Island and Weipa which are still major centres in the north of Queensland. If we use Brisbane as a base of 100 we find that in Cooktown one will pay an extra 24 per cent for any foods that one purchases. In Weipa one will pay an extra 19 per cent. In other words, if the base is 100 in Brisbane it is 1 19 in Weipa. If one goes to Thursday Island one is really struggling because one is paying an extra 39 per cent. On a base of 100 in Brisbane, Thursday Island has 139 as its food price. 
Let us not forget that this is occurring when the Government is doing everything it possibly can to reduce the Prices Justification Tribunal to something which will have no teeth at all. We certainly need a price regulatory system of some type in Australia, but unfortunately the Prices Justification Tribunal no longer fills that role. I believe that what the Prime Minister said in 1 975 about the abolition of the Prices Justification Tribunal is coming to pass, not because it is being abolished by a piece of legislation saying that the Tribunal no longer exists, but because it is being done by stealth. The people who outlined this situation and lobbied against it so dramatically in 1975 and 1976 should realise that this stealth is occurring and that the Tribunal is being abolished. The amending of the Act will be a significant step to  Mr Fraser's  1975 pledge to abolish the Prices Justification Tribunal. In conclusion, let me reiterate that I support the comments that have been made by my colleagues  Senator Peter  Walsh and  Senator Michael  Tate. I support the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Tate,  the previous  speaker  on this side of the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 3 April 1979: 
When did discussions first take place with Trans-Australia Airlines and Bush Pilots Airways in relation to the possibility of Bush Pilots Airways operating on the Townsville to Mount Isa route. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
What has been the average number of persons employed by the Prices Justification Tribunal in each financial year since its establishment. 
How many persons were employed by the Tribunal at 3 April 1979. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
Did the Trans-Australia Airlines timetable effective from 29 October 1978 indicate that on Sundays a Brisbane to Maryborough flight would depart from Brisbane at 4. 1 5 p.m. and a Brisbane-Maryborough-Bundaberg-Gladstone flight would depart from Brisbane at 5.20 p.m.: if so: (a) on which Sundays between 29 October 1978 and 25 February 1979 did these services not operate: (b) why did they not operate on each of these occasions: and (c) what are the details of any alternative flights which were arranged. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 3 May 1979: 
Did an advertisement appear in the  Bundaberg News Mail  indicating that vocational counsellors would be in attendance at Bundaberg on 28 February 1979; if so, (a) did the advertisement state that rehabilitation service would be available to unemployed beneficiaries; and (b) was that statement correct. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 March 1979: 
1 ) Has the Department of Transport's notice been drawn to a statement by Maroochy Shire  Chairman,  Councillor E. D. De Vere, in the  Sunday Mail,  4 March 1979, that he expects that medium jet passenger aircraft may be operating at Maroochy airport within two years. 
Has any approach been made to the Department of Transport to operate such jet services. 
Would the introduction of jet services to the Maroochy airport require staff that are not currently available at the airport for air traffic control and fire services; if so, what are the details. 
On page 3412 of today's Notice Paper, under the heading 'General Business' there is a sub-heading which reads: 'To take precedence of Government Business after 8 p.m.'. In the last week that the Senate sat I outlined that back bench senators have certain avenues to which they may resort when they wish to raise matters. One of those avenues is the adjournment debate. Another avenue is the motion for the first reading of certain money Bills. We can also present private members' Bills- something that I have already done in this session of Parliament. We can also list items of General Business, which is what this motion this afternoon refers to. 
During this session of Parliament- I am not referring to a General Business item at the moment- I raised a matter concerning discrimination which is occurring towards certain residents of Queensland. No action has been taken as a result of the matters I raised although when I last raised them the Minister then at the table said that it was a very good argument and that the wrong should have been redressed. So that I could bring this matter to a head I placed a notion of motion on the Notice Paper. It went under the heading of General Business. 
-It is on page 3412. lt is one that would have been discussed first tonight. I will just quote the motion. I gave notice that I would move: 
That the Senate is of the opinion that the Government should take immediate steps to remove the discrimination directed at certain Queensland residents whose property is insured under the Defence Service Homes Insurance Scheme. 
Returned Services League branches throughout Queensland are looking forward to my moving this motion and its having, hopefully, a successful passage through the Senate. Although we are opposing the motion that has been moved today, I know that the Government has the numbers and will be able to get its motion passed. It appears that I will have to wait until the Budget session before I can move this motion. This means that I will have to notify those RSL branches which are quite concerned about this matter that I have been denied the opportunity to debate it in this session of Parliament and that it will have to wait until the Budget session. 
It may be that by the time the Budget session commences the Government will have removed this discrimination that I talk about in my notice of motion. If that is so, it will be a satisfying conclusion to what has been a sorry state of affairs with regard to this discrimination which has occurred in Queensland. If no Government action is taken by the Budget session, which is when I believe I will next have an opportunity to move my motion, I will pursue the matter at that time with all the vigour that I can muster. Because I will not be able to move my motion, of which I gave notice on 28 February this year, until the Budget session I will join with my colleagues in opposing the motion that has been moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick). 
Question put. 
That the motion  (Senator Carrick's)  be agreed to. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
-The Leader of the Government in the Senate will recall that after fewer than 500 days in office the Whitlam Government, which was elected in 1972, was forced to go to the polls, and that after the Whitlam Government was re-elected in 1974 only 579 days in office were possible before the Parliament was dissolved. Now that the present Government has been in office for 535 days since it last faced the people, is it now willing to go to the people once again to allow Australians to have the opportunity of voting out the disastrous Fraser Government? 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
Leave granted. 

 -Mr President, you will recall that at about 10.20 or 10.25 on Thursday night last a division was called in this Senate. At page 2 137 of the Senate  Hansard  for 24 May the names of those honourable senators who voted for the proposition are listed and the names of those honourable senators who voted no are listed also. Under the ayes the name 'Collard, S. J.' appears and under the noes the name Collard, S. J.' appears, I presume that  Senator Collard  did not vote both yes and no and that where the name 'Collard ' appears under the ayes it should read 'Colston, M. A.' I imagine that in the weekly edition of the Senate  Hansard  that will be corrected but, because it will be some time before the weekly edition appears, I wish to place this matter on record at this stage so that those people who read  Hansard  will know that I did vote in favour of the proposition. 
This evening I intend to expand on a matter which was raised by my colleague,  Senator Elstob,  during Question Time this afternoon. It is a matter which, I think, needs expansion and which ought to be put before this Parliament so that we can see something which is happening in Queensland. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and indeed the whole of the Government has made much recently of the need to prevent tax evasion. I recall that even last week mention was made of a crack-down on tax evasion. We on this side of the House support any move which results in tax evasion being successfully combated. Those people who suffer from tax evasion are the wage and salary earners of Australia who have no recourse to tax minimisation schemes. 
My purpose in speaking this evening is to make the Senate aware of a major tax fiddle being masterminded by the National Party in Queensland. It is a scheme that should be nipped in the bud by the Treasurer of this Government. It is typical of the arrogance and effrontery of the National Party in Queensland that it is attempting to bend the Australian Government's tax rules. As the Government coalition in Queensland becomes more shaky each day the National Party has ironically set up an institution labelled the 'Bjelke-Petersen Foundation'. Funds which are raised for this foundation are used to purchase real estate and the rents from that real estate are going to be used to provide campaign funds for the National Party and for mid-term measures directed against the Australian Labor Party and the Liberal Party. In an effort to entice companies to contribute to this foundation, the hierarchy of the National Party in Queensland, in particular party  President Sir Robert  Sparkes, has devised a shady system whereby donations to the funds would be tax deductible. That means that the taxpayer would contribute to the National Party funds. I wish to read from an article printed in last Friday's Brisbane  Telegraph.  This article shows quite clearly how the tax system has been fiddled by the National Party. I quote from an article which is headed 'Taxpayers to aid National Party'. It reads: 
Australian taxpayers are to contribute to the National  Party's  major fund-raising campaign through the BielkePetersen Foundation. 
This became clear today as the party, through its State  President, Sir Robert  Sparkes, solicited contributions from major Australian corporations and told them how to write off part of their contribution into a tax deduction. 
The foundation, set up early this year to raise $2.Sm to buy properties throughout Queensland for party regional headquarters is now well established. 
In his letter soliciting major contributions,  Sir Robert  told the corporation how they could donate to the foundation and writeoff" part of their contribution to tax. 
The party could grant advertisements in its newspaper  National Outlook  in return for donations. 
The corporations were told that such a procedure had been fully checked with lawyers and accountants. 
A High Court judgment said it was not for the court or the Taxation Commissioner to say how much a taxpayer ought to spend in obtaining his income but only how much he had spent. 

 Sir Robert told the corporations that as most companies paid 46 per cent of their profits in tax then the actual donation to the Bielke-Petersen Foundation would only cost them 54 per cent of the amount given. 
On this basis the taxpayer could subsidise the $2. 5m fund by just less than 50 per cent. 

 National Outlook . . . has a circulation of about 20,000. 
What happens? Suppose a company in Queensland is sufficiently misguided to donate $5,000 to the foundation. In return for its donation it receives an advertisement worth, say, $5, $50, or maybe even $500 in the  National Outlook.  One may legitimately query whether an advertisement in the  National Outlook  has any value, but that is another question. The cost of this $5, $50 or $500 advertisement is set at $5,000. The company pays $5,000 as a tax deduction. To my mind this is downright deception. To illustrate that this type of advertising technique is used I will read part of a letter which is sent to the people who have donated funds to the Bjelke-Petersen Foundation. A part of that letter reads: 
The Bjelke-Petersen Foundation gratefully acknowledges your financial support, and on behalf of everyone involved we offer our sincere thanks. 
Incredible though it may seem, despite the fact that our Party is battling to protect the free enterprise system in which individuals and companies have thousands of millions of dollars at stake, our capacity to combat the Socialists and Communists is impaired by a chronic shortage of funds. 
Therefore, your financial assistance will not only serve to honour a great Queenslander who has dedicated his life to the preservation of our free enterprise democracy, but it will also help to ensure the continued strength and effectiveness of a political organisation committed to the same great cause. 
The following arc the details of your intended gift. Please check and advise us if there is any variation. 
Five headings are listed which are used for check lists. The first one is 'Indicated Amount' and so on. The fifth one is: 'Advertising to be negotiated '. The letter is signed: 
With sincere appreciation, 
BOB SPARKES 
SIR ROBERT SPARKES  President 
BRIAN HALL Chairman 
My advice to those companies which received an invitation to donate is to avoid the invitation like the plague. Not only does the scheme appear to have a questionable legal basis but also it is morally indefensible. Not only will companies which donate be working against the Liberal and Labor parties, but also they will be involved in a slick and perhaps illegal deal which only the National Party could conceive. The ordinary worker in this country cannot escape paying his share of taxation. Why should companies be able to claim tax deductions simply because the National Party's bush lawyers in Queensland think they can get the taxpayers of Australia to aid its cause? In order that this scheme is nipped in the bud I call upon the Treasurer to give immediate notice that the Australian Government will not stand for the use of these shady National Party tactics. I ask the Treasurer to make an announcement so that the workers of Australia can be certain that they will not be indirectly contributing to National Party funds. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 20 March 1 979: 
Did the Prime Minister, in his policy statement for the 1977 election for the House of Representatives, announce that new arrangements would be made in 1978-79 for pensioner housing to help those who want to rent privately in their own neighbourhood: if so, what progress has been made in the fulfilment of this promise. 
-The Minister for Social Security would be aware of a report in the  Australian Financial Review  last week which contained extensive quotations from a letter that was alleged to have been written by  Mr Lanigan,  the Director-General of Social Services. Did this letter, in the terms of the  Australian Financial Review  report, specify methods of pushing unemployed off the benefit lists? In view of the fact that extensive quotations have been made, will the Minister make available to the Senate the text of the letter? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for.Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
Has a decision been made regarding land to be resumed at Nudgee Beach in connection with the acquisition of land for extensions to the Brisbane airport; if so, what land will be resumed and when. 
For those people who are listening to the debate, I outline that this afternoon we are debating an urgency motion which states: 
That, in view of the Prime Minister's complete and unequivocal guarantee that the Government would not allow drilling that would do any damage to the Reef, and in view of the Queensland Government's intention to allow drilling in the region of the Reef, the Commonwealth Government maintain full jurisdiction and control over the Great Barrier Reef region. 
For the last 25 minutes or so we have been listening to  Senator Carrick,  the Leader of the Government in this place, who yesterday took great pleasure in playing school master and handing out Brownie points for literacy and numeracy. On his performance this afternoon I would offer two Brownie points to him for his efforts at literacy. On the other hand I would offer him 10 Brownie points for his admission throughout the whole of his speech that this Government will not retain control of the Great Barrier Reef. As I speak to this urgency motion, I will outline the need for the maintenance of full control by this Government and how  Senator Carrick  outlined that the Government would not do this. 
A number of discussions have taken place in this chamber over recent weeks on the Great Barrier Reef. This is the first opportunity I have had of making a speech on this important matter during this session. As a senator for Queensland, I have a very special interest in the protection of the Great Barrier Reef. I do not speak this afternoon, as  Senator Carrick  has suggested, to throw some Aunt Sallys on this matter. It is a very important subject. The Reef extends for almost the full length of the eastern coast of Queensland. It stretches from the north near the mouth of the Fly River in Papua New Guinea to Lady Elliott Island. It stretches for a distance of 1,900 kilometres. The name Great Barrier Reef is a contradiction. It is not a single reef but a collection of coral reefs and islands. Indeed, the term Great Barrier Reef system has been suggested as a more suitable term than Great Barrier Reef. The extent of the Great Barrier Reef has been outlined on a number of occasions in this Senate. It is about twice the size in area of England. Whilst the Reef lies off the coast of Queensland it should not be regarded as Queensland's reef. It should at least be regarded as Australia's reef, a reef for the whole of our nation. As some would suggest, it should be a reef belonging to the entire world. 
Although I am a Queenslander and have spent most of my life in Queensland, it was not until my early twenties that I first actually saw the reef, which is not unusual for many Queenslanders. There are still many Queenslanders who have not enjoyed the reef. Since my early twenties I have spent a great amount of time on the reef. Certainly since I have been a senator for Queensland my duties have often taken me to the Great Barrier Reef, right from the most southern part - 

 Government senators interjecting- 

-Is it not amazing that honourable senators on the Government side regard the protection of the reef as a joke? They laugh and giggle. They think the Great Barrier Reef is something that they can let be destroyed and that would not hurt Australia at all. It is a pity that senators on the Government side, especially those from the southern climes who do not regard the reef as the prize that it is, do not listen to the arguments. It is a pity that Government senators laugh and giggle at the argument. I have never ceased to be attracted by the reef. It is a pity that some honourable senators opposite do not take a trip in a helicopter to see the beauty of the reef. It is something that they will never forget. The whole of the reef is being threatened. When this debate commenced this afternoon, I thought that we would have some concensus from honourable senators opposite. It was not until I heard  Senator Carrick  speak- all his efforts were directed towards a literary masterpiece without logic- that I realised that this Government was not going to retain control of the reef when that is so absolutely necessary. 
The Great Barrier Reef is threatened. It is at risk. This is because of the relentless drive of some companies to explore for oil. As the world 's supply of oil dwindles, it is inevitable that there will be an increase in the desire to search for new oil supplies, to stave off for a short time the inevitable lack of fuel- fuel on which we have become so dependent. Let honourable senators make no mistake. The reef is under threat. Oil and coral do not mix. Currently there are four companies which have oil exploration permits on the Great Barrier Reef. These were mentioned earlier by  Senator Wriedt  and  Senator Carrick.  The oil companies in question are the Australian Gulf Oil Company, the Texaco Overseas Oil Company, the California Associated Oil Company and Gulf Interstate Overseas Ltd. The latter company has recently been taken over by Offshore Oil NL. With the exception of that company, all are owned by the United States. The fact that they are United States owned is not pertinent to my opposition and the opposition of the Australian Labor Party to oil exploration on the reef. No matter who may undertake that exploration, we are opposed to the actual prospect of oil exploration taking place on the reef. 
Earlier,  Senator Carrick  mentioned with respect to the first part of the urgency motion that the Government has said that it will not allow drilling that would do any damage to the reef. He said that this was a common objective for all Australians. Unfortunately it is not. A number of people in Queensland do not regard this as an objective and would very much like to carry out exploration on the reef. The Queensland Minister for Mines, Energy and Police has made it abundantly clear that he would like to see oil exploration on the reef and in nearby areas. Clearly he would like to see his State have full jurisdiction of and control over the Great Barrier Reef region. 
Jurisdiction over and control of the reef are the matters pertinent to what we are discussing this afternoon. In December of last year,  Mr Camm  said amongst other things. 
Off-shore oil drilling has been going on throughout the world with no danger to marine life . . . technological developments in the last decade have virtually eliminated the possibility of a major spill. 

 Mr Ray Jones, the member for Cairns in the Queensland Parliament, whose electorate borders part of the reef and who is a colleague of mine, said that  Mr Camm  is risking his seat in Parliament with such suggestions.  Mr Camm  represents the electorate of Whitsunday. Terrible damage could happen to the reef bordering that electorate if oil drilling took place. The facts simply do not accord with  Mr Camm's  statement. The risk to the reef presented by oil spillage is far too great to permit oil drilling. 
Too often we read of oil spillage from oil rigs at sea. With all the goodwill in the world, accidents still happen. To date we still do not know what effect spillage of oil will have on the coral reef. The Premier of Queensland has done nothing to suggest that he feels any different from his Minister for Mines, Energy and Police. If this matter is left in the hands of the Queensland Government, the Great Barrier Reef could be dealt a death blow. The reef, as has been pointed out today, is a complex ecosystem which is not yet fully understood. To suggest with our current knowledge that oil will not harm it is extremely risky and borders on complete folly. We do not have to go back to the tragic foundering of an oil tanker on the northern part of the reef to understand the extreme danger to the reef. We need only consider various blowouts that have happened throughout the world to see that any oil spillage would be extremely dangerous to the Great Barrier Reef. 
I was attracted to an editorial in the  Australian  dated 26 April 1977 which outlined how a blowout in the North Sea had affected whole areas of sea along the north coast of Britain. Because each  speaker  is limited to only 15 minutes when debating urgency motions, I will not read the editorial. Even though it is 2 years old, I do commend to honourable senators a reading of that editorial on blowouts. With the exception of the prediction that any new discovery of oil will be offshore, the comments made 2 years ago are just as valid today as they were then. We cannot take risks with the reef, confident that it will not be damaged. Earlier, mention was made of the strong public opinion in Queensland against oil drilling on the reef. The opinions of those overwhelmingly against drilling on the reef reflect the argument in the editorial, which I commend to honourable senators. 
In view of the threat posed to the reef by the attitude of the Queensland Government, it would seem logical to look towards the Federal Government for an assurance that it will not support oil exploration on the Great Barrier Reef. It is not often that I find comfort when I look towards the current Federal Government but on this occasion until the debate began this afternoon I did. I found some comfort in  Mr Malcolm  Fraser 's assurance that there would not be oil drilling on the reef. On 22 May 1979, in response to a question directed to him,  Mr Fraser  said: 
I have already made it clear to the House that the Government will not permit any drilling on the Great Barrier Reef or any drilling or mining which could damage the reef. That is a categoric and absolute guarantee. 
Later he suggested that he would not allow drilling that was in the area of the reef and which would damage it. The expressed attitude of the Prime Minister that he will not allow drilling near the reef seems to be different from that of the Premier of Queensland who said that there is a tremendous amount of water where there is no reef. Apparently  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  does not understand that the Reef cannot be separated for exploration purposes into reef and water. The water and the reef are part of a complex system. Drilling near the reef is just as dangerous to the system as drilling on it. 
As a senator for the State of Queensland along whose shores the reef stretches, I see that, unless the Commonwealth Government maintains full jurisdiction and control over the Great Barrier Reef region, the reef will be in grave danger of suffering irreparable damage. For many years the reef's vast expanse led Australians to become complacent and to believe that nothing could cause it significant damage. Unfortunately, this attitude still persists in some honourable senators on the Government side who have now left the chamber. They were jeering and joking about the whole matter. No honourable senator should entertain any compromise on the issue of oil drilling of the Great Barrier Reef. Even if there is a remote possibility that any part of this complex system will be destroyed, there must be a complete moratorium on oil drilling. I support the motion that has been moved by my colleague,  Senator Wriedt. 
I direct a question to you,  Mr President.  My question is prompted by my concern for those Senate employees who had to work into the early hours of this morning. Can you provide details of those Senate employees who worked past 2 o'clock this morning and how many of them will be paid overtime for the full time that they worked? Can you also advise whether any Senate employees who worked past 2 a.m. and who were again on duty when the Senate met at 10.30 this morning are eligible for penalty rates because of the short time they had away from their work place? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
Where and when did the Prime Minister pay the departure tax personally, as indicated in his answer to Senate Question No.1142(seeHansard, 1 May 1979, page 1512). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Did a parrot escape from an Indonesian ship berthed at Kwinana grain terminal in Western Australia, as reported in  The Courier Mail,  9 December 1978; if so: (a) have steps been taken to ensure that this does not occur again; (b) did the escape pose a risk of the fatal Newcastle disease among Australian commercial poultry and other birds; and (c) was the parrot captured. 
This -This evening we are discussing two Bills cognately. They are the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Amendment Bill 1979 and the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Amendment Bill 1979. Before discussing these two Bills, I make one comment in relation to an assertion made by a previous  speaker. Senator Puplick,  in the course of his address, mentioned the assistance which was being given to non-government business colleges. He stated that mention is made of this matter in one of these Bills we are discussing tonight. That is quite correct. But, lest it be thought that this is a new initiative, I must mention that there has been assistance to nongovernment business colleges for some time. Prior to 1974, students in technical colleges were able to gain assistance from the Commonwealth technical scholarship scheme. This competitive scheme paid compulsory fees and a small means tested allowance. A few courses in nongovernment business colleges were approved under the technical scholarship scheme. It will be remembered that fees in tertiary institutions were abolished in 1974, and the tertiary education assistance scheme, or TEAS, as it is normally called, was introduced. When this scheme was introduced, non-government business colleges which operated under the previous Commonwealth technical scholarship scheme were approved on an interim basis, and a fee subsidy was paid to them. Assistance for nongovernment business colleges from then until the present date has traversed a rocky path. It is important to recognise that the present scheme has been evolving for some five years. For those honourable senators who are interested, I would commend to them the report dated October 1978 of the Tertiary Education Commission on nongovernment business colleges. That report outlines in full and in a very readable manner the history of the scheme. 
I move to some of the areas covered by these two Bills which I wish to discuss. Because the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Amendment Bill 1979, one of the two Bills we are discussing, provides grants to States for government and non-government schools in respect of cost increases, I am taking the opportunity to make some mention of primary and secondary education in government schools in Australia. There is a general opinion fostered by some parts of the media and, I suspect, by some sections of the Government that everything is satisfactory with regard to resources provided to education in Australia. Some suggest that sufficient resources are being provided for schools. Only last week I saw a media suggestion that too much is being provided to schools in Australia. This is the approach that obviously has been taken by the Cabinet. It has been suggested over the past couple of weeks- we will find out in the next two days or so whether or not it is correct- that we are to learn of some real cuts in education funding in the forthcoming year. It is easy to suggest that funds should be cut, or that they are at a sufficient level. But do parents in Australia agree that this is the case? Not often do they agree. Especially they do not agree when they are speaking about the schools that their children attend. 
The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has continually stated in this chamber that certain resource targets have been reached. I suspect that he will use this argument to justify the education cuts that he is predicted to announce this week. But his argument, which he has used for a long time, is simply quite spurious. Let us look at the funding for primary and secondary schools in an historical context. The Senate is aware that when the Whitlam Government was elected in 1 972 it appointed an Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission. In 1973 that Commission, or committee as it was called in those days, reported serious deficiencies in a great many schools throughout Australia. In speaking about the practicalities of overcoming the worst deficiencies in a reasonably short period, the committee reported as follows: 
In its view the minimum acceptable degree of improvement would require an overall average increase of at least 40 per cent in the use of recurrent resources per pupil in government primary schools and 35 percent in government secondary schools. 
The Interim Committee did not lay down specifications for desirable numbers of teachers, amount of equipment and so on. It expressed the belief that the allocation of additional resources was a matter for the schools and the schools systems concerned. Nevertheless, the Committee did set out an example of a configuration of resources which schools systems might be using by the end of the decade.  Senator Robertson  referred briefly to that configuration when he spoke a short time ago. Although the configuration which the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission set out is reasonably lengthy, I think it is pertinent and I shall read it so that we can remind ourselves of what the report of 1973 stated. It stated that the configuration should be thus: 
All teachers to have available one working week annually or a month triennially. for professional enrichment purposes, with their normal responsibilities taken care of by competent staff. 
Relieving staff to be provided immediately a teacher is absent from duty. 
The amount of time approved for the conduct of recognised administrative duties by teachers in schools to be the equivalent of about 10 per cent of staff working hours. 
One field consultant adviser to be provided for every 60 teachers in service. 
An expansion in the number of primary specialist teachers, which will enable the release of teachers from direct classroom duties for two hours a week. 
All new teachers to enjoy a 10 per cent reduced workload during their first year of service. 
A reduction in the maximum sizes of class groups to 32 pupils at primary and junior secondary levels and 25 students in the senior secondary forms. 
The numbers of ancillary staff and the amount of equipment to be increased, in terms of 1972 levels, by 100 per cent for primary schools and 75 per cent of secondary schools. 
The latest Schools Commission report, that for the triennium 1979-1981, which was published last year, showed the increase in recurrent resources for government schools for 1972 to 1976 as 37. 1 per cent for primary schools and 29. 1 per cent for secondary schools. That led the Commission to report that the system had attained or would attain the original targets by or earlier than 1979. I remind honourable senators that that 37.1 per cent increase for primary schools which I mentioned corresponded with the 40 per cent which the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission suggested in 1973 and the 29.1 per cent increase for secondary schools corresponded with the 35 per cent suggested by the Interim Committee. So certainly even by 1976 the money target was within sight and the Commission was quite right in stating in 1978 that the system had attained or would attain the original targets by or earlier than 1 979. 
If the resource standards have been reached, however, does that mean that we should stop at this stage; in other words, have we reached an acceptable level at this stage? The latest Schools Commission report suggested that we should not stop at this stage and that we have not reached an acceptable level. It pointed out quite clearly that the original targets had the limited goal of overcoming in a reasonably short period the worst school deficiencies. In other words, the original targets were not set at optimum levels. 
What the Schools Commission did in its 1978 report was to suggest that target resource standards should be such that an example it gave of a configuration was attainable. I think that as I read the configuration given as an example, most honourable senators will understand that that configuration mentioned in the 1978 report was not all that different from what was mentioned in 1973. The configuration mentioned in the 1978 report was as follows: 
teaching staff sufficient to ensure that- infant classes need nol exceed 25 students- primary or junior secondary classes need not exceed 30 students- senior secondary classes need not exceed 25 students; 
relieving teachers are available when teachers are absent from duty; 
10 per cent of the total staff working hours to be distributed among staff for recognised administrative duties; 
) enough additional primary teachers to allow release of teachers from direct classroom instruction for two hours per week; 
new teachers to have a 10 per cent reduced working load in the first year of service; 
f) an average of five days per year available for attendance at in-service programs aimed at professional development; 
classroom aides at the rate of one full-time equivalent per 250 students in primary and 1 SO in secondary; 
clerical assistance equivalent on a full-time basis to one per 400 students in primary schools and one per 200 students in secondary schools; 
specialist help from outside the school as necessary, but in any case at a rate, the full-time equivalent of which would be one professional per 600 staff in primary and one per 400 in secondary; 
sufficient cash resources to obviate the necessity for semi-compulsory fees in government schools and for the purchase of needed equipment and consumable resources. 
The Commission in its report of 1978 outlined how that configuration was not more than marginally different from previous target resource standards. In addition, it stated that those standards had not yet been attained by all schools and all systems. It is worthwhile to dwell on that statement that at that stage the standards set out in that configuration had not been attained in all schools and all systems. 
The Schools Commission referred in its 1978 report to standard costs which it believed to be sufficient to enable target resource standards to be attained. They were $845 per pupil for primary schools and $ 1 ,446 per pupil for secondary schools. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition when he spoke this afternoon, referred to those target resource standards. He actually indicated the amount of money they would represent in 1979 values. I have some doubts whether the figures which the Commission reported in 1978 are high enough. My doubts arise from the fact that it seems that the Interim Committee for the 
Commission did not estimate as well as it might have done. As I mentioned earlier, it set out certain resource targets. Although those targets have been reached in money terms, the concrete targets have not been attained. Perhaps the same has occurred again. 
Even if the standard costs are accurate, it can be seen from what is stated at page 37 of the Schools Commission report of 1978 that a number of States were below standard. I refer honourable senators to Table 3.9 at that page of the report, which shows the estimated expenditure for the various States. We see that New South Wales had an estimated expenditure of $835 per student in primary schools for 1977-78. That is below the target of $845 per pupil which was set by the Schools Commission. In secondary schools New South Wales is also below the target. The estimated expenditure is $1,415, compared with the target of $1,446. In Queensland the amount provided per pupil for primary schools is at a level above what the Schools Commission set but for secondary schools it is far below-it is $1,390 which is far below the $1,446 recommended. In Western Australia, which is the only other State where the amount being spent per pupil is less, the amount per pupil is $815 for primary schools compared with the $845 recommended. As a Queensland  Senator I  notice the stark fact that Queensland has the lowest expenditure per pupil for secondary schools. It is well below the target standards. Clearly the target resource standards determined by the Commission do not suggest that there should be a decrease in funding to schools throughout Australia. 
To back up the argument that I am proposing, that there are certain aspects of education in Queensland for which funds are needed, I refer honourable senators to a document entitled ' Report of the National Survey of Conditions in Schools by the Australian Teachers Federation 1978'. The Federation at page 30 of that report referred to the situation in Queensland. It stated: 
Queensland education is characterised by heavy teaching loads, very large infants classes and relatively large secondary classes. Children needing special assistance with remedial reading and remedial number work are less likely in Queensland to be receiving that help. This is particularly so in secondary classes. 
The report deals with student needs, classroom conditions, building works programs, the staffing ratio, class size and teacher workload. Part of its conclusion reads: 
Queensland needs to employ many more teachers to decrease class sizes, reduce teacher face-to-face teaching time and allow more time for preparation and marking and to provide the remedial number and reading help that so many students urgently require but Tor the main part do not receive. 
During the course of my comments this evening I have not mentioned capital funding. I do not intend to traverse the history of this subject at this time. However, the comments that I would make in respect of capital funding are similar to those which I am making this evening. I do not believe that this is the time to cut funding to schools. 
I conclude my comments this evening by mentioning three schools I visited this year that stand out in my memory. Whenever I get the chance I visit schools, particularly schools in Queensland, because I like to see what the standards are nowadays compared with the standards when I was teaching in schools. I like to keep a contact with the teachers in Queensland schools. One of the high schools which I visited is in the electorate in which I live. Some honourable senators might realise that I live in the electorate of Ryan in Queensland, which is not exactly an area which one would describe as lower class. 
-There was one in that area who happened to be elected to the Federal Senate. But apart from that person and his family 1 think for the most part one would call it a middle class area or an upper middle class area. One usually expects to find fairly good conditions in schools in those areas. However, the facilities in this secondary school were in urgent need of immediate upgrading. I will just mention those facilities which I can remember at the moment. The library was in a very cramped area. The students could not go into the library to carry out individual study of their own. It seems to me that it is vital to foster the use of a library in secondary schools because so much depends upon a child being able to use a library and developing a love of books. But the students of this school could not use the library because it was in such a cramped space. 
The manual arts block needed considerable upgrading. Nowadays a reasonable manual arts block has at least one lathe so that the lads can do some lathe work before they leave school. But it was just not possible to equip this manaul arts block with a lathe. The manual arts block was on the second floor of a building and if a lathe had been installed is would have gone right through the wooden floor. The school needed either a new building to house the manual arts block or the manual arts block needed to be shifted to the ground floor. The science laboratories for the junior part of the school were appalling. One laboratory was black banned by the teachers because they thought it was unsafe. I wonder how we can get a spark of enthusiasm for science when we have inadequate facilities like this? 
The two other schools which I want to mention are both in the Torres Strait area, which is a fair distance from the secondary school about which I have just spoken. When I go to the Torres Strait area I make a point wherever possible of going into the schools to see what the facilities are like. The level of educational facilities in the schools in the Torres Strait area can be described only as appalling. One would use a worse adjective than that if it were possible to do so. In saying this I make no criticism of the teachers or people such as teaching aides who are engaged in teaching activities. Rather, this is a criticism of the administration which allows such a thing to happen. In many cases the teachers simply are not trained. 
I should mention that the schools in the Torres Strait area, except for the schools on Thursday Island, are not under the control of the State Education Department; they are under the control of the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement. I am afraid that there is not much advancement in those schools. As a one-time teacher I believe that I can make a reasonable assessment of the level of attainment reached by the students in these schools. But the level of attainment was not satisfactory in the two schools I am about to mention. Why was it not satisfactory? For a start many of the teachers are untrained. Try as one must, if one is an untrained teacher, one cannot do as well- all other things being equal- as a trained teacher. In some of the schools trained teachers were in charge with untrained teachers to help them. 
I would like to mention one of those schools. Rather than identify the school and perhaps embarrass someone I will refer to the school as school A. This school had an untrained teacher as its principal. I think he may have received some tutoring from people who came around from time to time, but he was untrained as was his staff. I was taken by the school rules that were written on a chart on the wall of his school. I was taken by them for two reasons- firstly, because they were interesting schools rules, and secondly because they showed how untrained this teacher was in terms of lack of grammar and lack of spelling accuracy. I will quote the rules in full and then I will comment on them. I would like to record in  Hansard  the way in which they appear. The list was headed 'Our-school-rules'. They were as follows:  1.I must obey my teacher's word's. 2.I must not eat food in classroom. 3.I must not use bad, languag in school. 4.I must not throw stone in school area. 5.I mut get permission to live the classroom. 
Keep you classroom clean and tidy. 
Never sew sewing-gum in school. 
The first rule spelt the 'words' with an apostrophe before the s. It is a small thing perhaps, but one would not expect a trained teacher to do that. In the third rule the word 'language' was spelt without the final e. The fourth rule- 'I must not throw stone in school area' could perhaps have had the word 'the' inserted in it, but we will not quibble about that. In the fifth rule the word must' was spelt m-u-t and the word 'leave' was speltl-i-v-e. Rule No. 6 featured 'you' instead of your'. I presume that No. 7 should have been: Never chew chewing-gum in school'. I quote those rules to give an indication of the level of training or ability of the principal. With a teacher like that, if any of the children succeed they will succeed probably in spite of the teacher rather than because of him. I have no real criticism of the teacher because he was doing his very best there under very trying conditions and in a very poor building, but the administration that allows that to happen should take steps to ensure that better educational facilities are provided for the children. 
In what I will call school B the students have what might be called a marginally satisfactory school building, but when I arrived it was about to be demolished to make way for a new airstrip. If a new airstrip is to be put in and a school has to be moved somewhere else because it is on the site of the new airstrip, one would have thought that the new school would be built, the old one would be pulled down, the students would be taken into the new school and then the airstrip would be built. But what happened here is that it is was decided to pull down the school, to put up a temporary structure- which I will describe in a moment- to build the airstrip, then build the new school and move the children from the temporary structure into the new school. I will be happy to show photographs of the temporary structure to honourable senators. I actually photographed the erection of the temporary school using mangrove limbs of about 4 centimetres in diameter for the sides and the roof. Nearby were some Torres Strait Islanders who were cutting down palm leaves from coconut palms to place as a roof of the school. I imagine that this would be a lovely school in some respects on a tropical island, having mangrove twigs holding up coconut palms for the roof. It would be an ideal setting when the weather was fine and everything was going well. But we can imagine what is going to happen if a cyclone rips through that area. The palm leaves will go everywhere and the kids will be back in the open with no school. 
I have mentioned these three places- the secondary school and the two primary schools in the Torres Strait area- not because I think that the Bills which we are considering will provide funds for those areas but to illustrate that they are indicative of many things that are happening in schools throughout Australia where the facilities are not good but can be improved a great deal. Yet we still hear many arguments from people who say that we should have less funds for education. If we look at some of the facilities in schools we will soon realise that funds should not be cut. The Opposition does not oppose these two machinery Bills and we are quite happy to see them passed, but some of us have used the opportunity to outline what we consider should be the attitude of the Government when it is looking at the funding of education in the future, and some of the problems that exist in some of the areas we represent. 
-- Over recent months I have asked a series of questions of all Ministers in the Parliament in relation to the departure tax.  Mr President,  because of the absolute propriety of the Presiding Officers, I have not asked you or  Mr Speaker  the same question. On 20 February of this year I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  two questions in relation to the departure tax. The first question was: 
1 ) How many times has the Prime Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978? 

 Senator Carrick replied: 
Three. 
The second question I asked was: 
Did the Prime Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
The answer was: 
Under the terms of the Government's decision in respect of departure tax outlined in Parliament on 24 August 1978, persons leaving Australia, except in certain circumstances are required to pay a departure tax. 
Ministers are not exempt from this requirement. Ministers travelling on official business are fully entitled to have the charge paid officially. If they travel privately they would pay the departure tax as a personal charge. 
Although the visits referred to in ( 1 ) above were official visits I have as it happens elected to pay the departure tax personally on each occasion. 
I followed that up with another question because I wanted to be absolutely sure that the information given to me was correct. It was somewhat unusual to have the reply that the departure tax could have been paid as an official charge but the Prime Minister elected to pay it himself. In fact, this was the only occasion that such a reply came to me. So on 2 May I asked the Prime Minister this question: 
Where and when did the Prime Minister pay the departure tax personally, as indicated in his answer to Senate Question No. 1  42 (see Hansard.  1 May 1979, page 1512). 
Today I received an answer to that question.  Senator Carrick  advised me: 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I have nothing further to add to the answer I gave the honourable senator on 1 May. 
This may seem to be a small matter. However, I think that it is an important matter. I asked the question quite genuinely. I sought some information to be sure that all Ministers were paying this tax, which was imposed by the Parliament last year. If the Prime Minister thought that I was being impertinent in asking that question, as he had said that he had paid it personally, I think that the answer to the question could have been couched in such a manner that he thought I was being impertinent. If he thought that there was a genuine reason why he should not advise me where and when he paid his departure tax, he should have said: 'Because of such and such I have nothing further to add to the answer I gave to the honourable senator on 1 May'. 
At this stage I do not think there is anything untoward in the answer that was given to my question of 20 February. I accept that the departure tax was paid personally. But when I receive an answer such as the one I received today to a question I asked on 2 May I begin to have some sneaking suspicions that something is wrong. 
Again, I do not believe that there is anything wrong, but if the Prime Minister wants to foster an opinion that something is wrong he has given exactly the right answer. I ask  Senator Carrick,  who represents the Prime Minister in this place, to refer this matter back to the Prime Minister and inform him that I genuinely asked this question on 2 May, that it was not asked for the fun of it. I also ask him to ascertain whether the Prime Minister would be willing to give me an answer to the question that I asked. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 May 1 979: 
Are statistics now available which show the grounds for appeals in relation to unemployment benefits; if so, what are the statistics for each State and Territory for each quarter for which they have been available (see answer to House of Representatives Question No. 1218,  Hansard.  21 October 1976, page 2 1 76). 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I realise that the Minister may not have the information that I request, but if that is the case I ask that the information be made available before the parliamentary recess. I ask: Have visas been issued to Japanese entertainers to perform at the launching of the Yeppoon Iwasaki resort this month? Have visas been issued to any other Japanese citizens who will be employed at the Yeppoon launching? If so, how many visas have been issued, what are the conditions associated with those visas and was comment invited from the relevant trade unions before the visas were issued? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
.  Which inhabited islands in Torres Strait have airstrips. 
Who owns each of these airstrips. 
Are the owners responsible for the maintenance of these strips. 
What landing fees are payable for each of these strips and to whom are the landing fees payable. 
Which of the inhabited islands in Torres Strait do not have airstrips. 
Does each inhabited island in Torres Strait which does not have an airstrip have a constructed helicopter pad. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 29 March 1979: 
Did an article by  Mr Mike  Steketee in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  22 March 1979, state that, in return for greater access to United States markets, Australia agreed to lower protection levels on some industrial goods- mainly heavy manufacturing products- and tobacco; if so, has Australia agreed to lower protection levels on tobacco in return for greater access to United States markets. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
Are further cut-backs in the home-savings grants scheme envisaged, as was claimed in an article in the  Sunday Sun, 22  October 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) How many times has the Minister left Australia since 24 October 1978. 
Did the Minister pay a Departure Tax on all such occasions; if not, why not. 
-I withdraw General Business, Notice of Motion No. 1 standing in my name relating to the Defence Service Homes Insurance scheme. I seek leave to make a statement relating to the withdrawal. 
Leave granted. 
I wish to explain why I withdrew this motion this morning. I am delighted that changed circumstances have allowed me to withdraw the motion. I remind honourable senators that the motion which I was to move read as follows: 
That the Senate is of the opinion that the Government should take immediate steps to remove the discrimination directed at certain Queensland residents whose property is insured under the Defence Service Homes Insurance scheme. 
This matter refers to a special loading which was placed on Defence Service Homes Insurance scheme premiums in Queensland. My argument has been that this loading was discriminatory and unfair. I remind honourable senators that I made two major speeches on this matter last year. On the second occasion the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  conceded that I had a good case. During my continual efforts to have this unfair loading removed I received excellent co-operation from Queensland branches of the Returned Services League. The sustained pressure from branches of the RSL has been invaluable. I have now been advised by the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  that the additional loading on insurance premiums in Queensland will be removed. From 1 July 1979 a uniform rate will apply throughout Australia. This scheme will now operate fairly, just as it did before Queenslanders were penalised. Therefore the notice of motion is no longer necessary. That is the reason why I withdrew it this morning. 
Before I outline the subject about which I will speak this evening, I mention that we are speaking on the first reading of a money BUI. On the first reading of a money Bill in the Senate we are permitted to speak on matters which are relevant or not relevant to that BUI. I suppose that in some respects my remarks could be relevant to Supply BUI (No. 1) but I shall speak on matters that, in the main, are not relevant to the BUI. The matter that I mention this evening will not take long to traverse. To some honourable senators it may seem to be a very small matter and one perhaps not worthy of bringing to the attention of the Senate. I do think it is worthy of bringing to the attention of the Senate because even although it is a small matter, it is a very large matter for one person, who wrote to me about it. I imagine that there are other people in the community who find this to be a large matter in their lives. I will outline what I wish to speak about by reading the text of a letter which was written to me by a person in Queensland. The person is an aged pensioner who said how hard she was finding it to keep up with paying her rates. The letter states: 
Would you be able to help the plight of the aged pensioners' in regard to their town council rates. In Roma, a very ordinary house is rated  app.  $230 per year, we receive $25 concession allowance off this plus a discount if paid within a certain time. This still leaves over $200 for the pensioner to pay. Most of the aged pensioners have owned their homes for many years, and are now finding it very hard to meet the high rates levied in Roma. These old people like to live in their own homes as long as possible. We consider that we should be entitled to a concession of 50 per cent on our rates, which would help to ease the strain of trying to make our existence a bit happier . . . Trusting you could help us in our campaign to get a 50 per cent concession for aged pensioners, with lower council house and land rates. 
There are probably many people in the community who find themselves in this position. It is perhaps pertinent for honourable senators to look at the factors that this Government could take into account in relation to the matters raised by this type of letter. Looking firstly at local authorities, it is not always possible for local authorities to grant concessions to pensioners. As I travel throughout Queensland I find that there is a great disparity from council to council and from shire to shire in the amount that they allow to pensioners as a concession on their rates. This is understandable because in some areas the shires and councils do not have the same income as others. In some areas there is a high pensioner population and if large discounts were allowed on rates it would be beyond the local authority to assist to any extent. Despite the fact that the local councils are perhaps the arm of government closest to the people, unfortunately the councils do not have the income that they would like to have to be able to give these sorts of concessions to people such as pensioners. 
When senators receive letters such as this they should look not only at the direct plight so much but also the plight of local authorities throughout Australia- the plight in which they find themselves with little income to do the things that they would like to do and, if possible, to grant concessions to people like the woman who wrote to me. In other words, the Federal Government should look favourably towards local government. I realise that, at the moment, some money is flowing from the Federal Government to local governments, but perhaps it is not enough because these are the governments which are closest to the people and which provide the services that people need on a day-to-day basis. There are some constitutional problems in granting moneys direct to local governments but these can be overcome, and I believe have been overcome by previous governments. 
Perhaps there is a better way of solving the problem about which this person wrote to me, the problem of having to pay high rates and not being able to receive adequate concessions. I think the better way of solving this problem is to set pensions at a sufficient level so that pensioners do not need concessions. If pensioners had a level of pension whereby this type of bill did not worry them, they would have a great amount of dignity within the community, would be able to pay the same as others in the community and would not be looking for concessions on rates and all of the other concessions which pensioners have to receive. It seems a pity to me that the pensions that we do pay are not sufficient for pensioners to pay their accounts as other people do throughout the community and do not, therefore, have to look for concessions like this. 
I would just ask the Government to give consideration to the cases I have mentioned when it is having further Budget discussions. Six monthly pensions indexation has been widely mentioned in this place and outside. I again suggest that this should be given consideration so that people like the person who wrote to me find it much easier to pay the accounts that all people in the community have to pay. 
It is quite easy for us in the Senate to forget what it is like for the pensioners outside. It is quite easy if we do not go and speak to the pensioners or if we do not receive letters from them. It is for that reason that I brought the attention of the Senate to this letter tonight so that the Senate can understand the plight of some pensioners. If we keep this in mind I am sure that the pensioners of Australia, the people who really depend upon us for a happy and contented retirement will be much better off and will have that retirement that they are looking forward to. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. I refer to reports in today's  Courier-Mail  which state that a recent survey showed that parents of students in Queensland government schools paid $8. 5m from their own pockets to keep their schools running last year. I also refer to a statement in the Schools Commission report for the 1979-81 triennium that target resource standards for the triennium should be such that there should be, amongst other things, sufficient cash resources to obviate the necessity for semi-compulsory fees in government schools for the purchase of needed equipment and consumable resources. Does the Minister expect this element of the configuration set out by the Commission to be achieved in government schools throughout Australia by 1981? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 22 May 1 979: 
1 ) What are the aims of the Education Program for Unemployed Youth. 
When did the program begin. 
Where in Queensland have there been courses under this Program and what are the details of these courses. 
Has any evaluation of the Program been made to see whether the aims of the Program are being fulfilled; if so, what has been the result of the evaluation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
Who owned the predominantly white Boeing aircraft which was parked between the Ansett Airlines and TransAustralia Airlines terminals at Brisbane Airport on the evening of 25 April 1979. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
What amount of Government funds was spent by each Minister on the production and postage of 1978 Christmas cards. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
On what dates since 24 October 1978 has the Prime Minister left Australia. 
I  present the following petition from 48 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That further cutbacks in Commonwealth funding to State Schools and transferral of funds to wealthy independent schools as required under the guidelines to the Schools Commission announced by the Minister for Education in early June are of vital concern in that they mitigate against the interests of the great majority of Australian Children in State Schools. 
That Queensland State Schools have not reached the Resource Usage Targets set by the Schools Commission, and even at those financial levels will fall well short of actual provision standards envisaged by the Commission. 
That Queensland's effort in respect of Capital works is particularly of concern being less than half the per capita effort of other States. 
Your petitioners therefore call on their legislators to ensure: 
That Federal funding to State Schools is restored to at least 1974-75 levels; 
the independence of the Schools Commission to recommend the allocation of funds to schools on the basis of need, unhindered by Government directive; and 
that sufficient funds are provided to Queensland, appropriately tied, to ensure achievement of National standards in this State. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 3 April 1979: 
1 ) Why were brochures on Domiciliary Nursing Care Benefit not available in the Brisbane Office of the Department of Health before I asked Senate Question No. 1244 on 20 February 1979 (see answer in Senate  Hansard,  20 March 1979, page 793). 
Were the brochures that are currently available prepared by the Department of Health; if not, which Department prepared them. 
When were the brochures last printed. 
When is it expected that brochures will be reprinted. 
3 ) Are sufficient quantities of the brochure currently held by offices of the Department of Health for Members of Parliament to send to interested constituents. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
What was the departure time from Brisbane of the direct Trans-Australia Airlines flights between Brisbane and Bundaberg and between Brisbane and Gladstone on: 
10 December 1978; 
24 December 1978; and 
21 January 1979. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 May 1 979: 
1 ) Which inhabited islands in Torres Strait (a) do; and (b) do not, have full telephone facilities. 
When is it expected that full telephone facilities will be available at those inhabited Torres Strait islands which do not currently have these facilities. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
Does the settlement of Lockhart River in North Queensland have telephone facilities; if not, when is it expected that telephone facilities will be available. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
Was Qantas Airways Limited required to return the Government a dividend not less than the long term bond rate (see answer to Senate Question No. 1243,  Hansard,  1 May 1979, pages 1514-5), if so when was this directive issued. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
Was the erroneous statement that 'despite the extra services and larger aircraft, seating was still barely available' referred to in the answer to Senate Question No. 1241 (see  Hansard,  1 May 1979, p. 1514) corrected by TransAustralia Airlines Limited in the period between 10 December 1978 and Christmas Day; if not, why was this not done, so that intending passengers would have been spared the worry that they might not have been able to obtain seating during the Christmas season. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 31 May 1979: 
1 ) When was the curfew broken at the Brisbane airport during the period 1 March 1 979 to 3 1 May 1 979. 
What was: (a) the time of take-off or landing; and (b) the reason for the breaking of the curfew, on each occasion. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
Why did the Prime Minister indicate, in his answer to Senate Question No. 1579 (see  Hansard,  4 June 1979, page 2595), that he had nothing further to add to the answer he gave to Question No. 1 142 (see  Hansard,  1 May 1979, page 1512). 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer the Minister to that part of last night's Budget Speech which mentioned revenue lost due to tax avoidance schemes. I also refer the Minister to reports relating to the manner in which the National Party in Queensland is raising funds for the Bjelke-Petersen Foundation, and in particular to statements by the Queensland  President  of the Party,  Sir Robert  Sparkes, that donations to the Foundation can be made tax deductible by placing advertisements in the Party's magazine  National Outlook  at uncommercial rates. Will the Minister assure the Parliament and the Australian people that the Taxation Office will undertake a full investigation of these reports that the National Party is obtaining its donations for the Bjelke-Petersen Foundation by encouraging tax avoidance on the part of potential donors? Will the Minister also give an assurance that every effort will be made to ensure that donors to the fund make their donations in a way that does not relieve them of their responsibility to the Australian people to pay their rightful share of tax? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 June 1979: 
Did a report in the  Courier-Mail,  7 June 1979, state that television reports of the 1 982 Brisbane Commonwealth Games would be in jeopardy if negotiations with the Australian Broadcasting Commission were not completed in three months. 
What is the current state of the negotiations referred to. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to a question asked yesterday by  Senator Bishop  in relation to supplementary assistance and special benefit. In referring to special benefit, the Minister referred  Senator Bishop  to section 125 of the Act which relates special benefits to unemployment benefit or sickness benefit. As supplementary assistance is payable for a sickness beneficiary after six weeks, is it possible, under the Act, to pay supplementary assistance to a person receiving a special benefit? Further, if it is not possible, will the Minister have the matter investigated to see whether hardship is being experienced in this area by the current format of the Act? 
I accept what the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  said in reply to my query, although I must admit that I think it is a little quaint to notify pharmacists that a charge will be increased on a certain date before the appropriate legislation has been passed by the Senate, not that there was ever much chance that it would not be passed. But that is not my query now. My query relates to clause 3 of the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 2) which states: 
Section 84 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from the definition of 'prescribed maximum amount' in subsection ( 1 ) '$2.50' and substituting '$2.75 '. 
Without having the principal Act in front of me, it seems to me from that that the prescribed maximum amount will be $2.75. Does a part of the principal Act state that the prescribed maximum amount is the amount which must be charged? In other words, if a pharmacist charges less than the prescribed maximum amount, is he in breach of the Act? 
-I would like to raise what is perhaps a small but, I think, important matter. I hope that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  will be able to respond to my query, ls it correct that when this Bill is passed the maximum charge for a prescription under this scheme will be $2.75? If a pharmacist were to charge more than $2.75, he would be charging that amount illegally; but if he charged less than $2.75, would that be legal? In other words, come next Saturday, if a pharmacist charges $2.50 for a national health script will he be acting within the law? If so, which I suspect will be the case, will the Minister advise the Committee what steps will be taken to notify pharmacists of the increased charge? My worry is that some pharmacists in the community, especially in outlying areas where they do not have fellow pharmacists to speak to or are not in touch with the daily papers- that happens in a number of outlying areas- might not know on Saturday that the charge has been increased to $2.75. If they charge $2.50 and are still acting within the law, they will incur a loss. If all my assumptions are correct, can the Minister inform the Committee whether any steps will be taken to inform pharmacists that the new charge will apply from Saturday? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: 
When did discussions first take place between TransAustralia Airlines and Bush Pilots Airways in relation to the possibility of Bush Pilots Airways operating on the Townsville to Mt Isa route, as distinct from the discussions, held by both airways with the Minister's Department, referred to in answer to Senate Question No. 1515  (Hansard,  23 May 1979, page 2034). 
-We are debating the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 2), and I mention that because the previous  speaker,  in the 22 minutes for which she spoke, used only two minutes to speak on the Bill. I realise that when speaking on Bills of this nature it is possible to elaborate somewhat in order to make a point that is relevant to the Bill but which sometimes does not seem to be. However,  Senator Walters  seemed to speak for a great length of time on matters quite irrelevant to this Bill. I remind the Senate that  Senator Grimes  moved as an amendment to the Bill: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to provide for the provision of prescriptions free of charge for patients determined in an equitable fashion as being disadvantaged '. 
I am the only senator of those who have spoken this afternoon so far who is not intimately associated with the medical profession, although I must admit that at times before I entered this Parliament I was often mistakenly thought to be associated with it. That means that perhaps I will have a different approach from that of the first four speakers who spoke from the background of the medical profession. I am speaking from a background of a far different nature, and I will draw on my experiences and associate those with the Bill. Next Saturday many people in the community will do what they normally dc on a Saturday morning, that is, they will do their shopping. Indeed, I suppose that some of us in this chamber and in the other place will do the same thing. Many people who do their shopping next Saturday morning will have an unpleasant surprise. I daresay that some people in the community will go along to their pharmacist and will not know that the cost for pharmaceutical benefits has increased. I ask honourable senators to imagine the sorts of things that can happen. A mother may go along with a couple of prescriptions because she has a child with a chest complaint or a child with tonsilitis. Not wanting to get them tomorrow as it would be inconvenient, she will go to the pharmacy on Saturday and therefore pay an extra 50c for those two prescriptions. Somebody who is working but who needs regular medication may go along to his pharmacist next Saturday and pay an extra 25c. 
I wonder why this charge has been brought in so early. It seems that the people who are subjected to this cost on Saturday morning will come to one conclusion: This Government is very interested in getting extra revenue as soon as it possibly can. For some people who go to the pharmacist next Saturday the extra 50c for two scripts will not be of any real disadvantage. People on incomes like those of members of this chamber will not really worry. It will not affect their weekly budgeting, but it will be a worry to some people in the community. I refer to certain disadvantaged people, the people whom we are worried about. Concern for these people who will be disadvantaged by this extra cost next Saturday morning is the reason we have moved our amendment this afternoon. Some people will be hit very hard.  Senator Walters,  when speaking on the Bill, suggested that there would not be anybody who would be disadvantaged by the new charge which will be imposed next Saturday. Some people definitely will be disadvantaged. I am referring to those people who will receive pensioner medical benefit cards in November but do not have them now. I would like to quote one part of the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  In the section dealing with pensioner fringe benefits he said: 
The basic income test limits for eligibility for Pensioner Health Benefit Cards have not been altered since 1 973. This has resulted in the loss of this particular benefit by large numbers of pensioners. 
I interpose there and mention that I received a number of representations during the recess, just like other honourable senators, concerning certain people who had pensioner health benefit cards and therefore enjoyed some of the fringe benefits that are enjoyed by pensioners and who, because of an increase in other income, usually through a low superannuation payment, have lost their entitlement to a pensioner health benefit card. These people have pointed out the disadvantage. So the raising of the limit provided for in the Budget was quite warranted. 
-Senator Baume, I like to be honest in the debating points I raise. I hope that  Senator Baume  will realise that the points I raise are honest. This is different from  Senator Walters  who earlier accused all the people on this side of the chamber as being dishonest. What a person to call members on this side of the House dishonest! One has to consider only the promises that were broken by the present Government of which she is a supporter to realise that. I continue with the quote from the Budget Speech: 
As a consequence, the Government has decided to increase these limits as follows: from $33 to $40 per week in respect of single people; and from $57.50 to $68 per week in respect of married couples. 
These extensions will be effective from 1 November . . . 
As I said, these increases were quite warranted, but the nub of the whole matter is that the extensions will be effected from 1 November. So on Saturday morning some people will go along to the pharmacist and will be eligible to have a pensioner health benefit card in November when the legislation is introduced according to the Budget but will not have the pensioner health benefit card on Saturday morning and will have to pay the increased charge. In addition there are some extensions to the benefit. Again,  Senator Baume  will acknowledge that I am genuine when I say that these extensions should have taken place, and I welcome the fact that they will take place. I quote another section of the Budget Speech in regard to pensioner fringe benefits. It says: 
We have decided to extend eligibility for Pensioner Health Benefit Cards to supporting parents and their dependants. This means that supporting parents will be eligible, as are widows and other sole parents in similar circumstances, for certain fringe benefits, such as free pharmaceuticals. 
I think that all of us have come into contact, at some stage, with people who have been on a supporting parents benefit, especially mothers who have young children and who have not been able to receive free pharmaceuticals. It seems so illogical because supporting parents obviously have young children who at some stage will suffer some illness and will need medical care, yet up until now they have not been able to receive free pharmaceutical benefits. Again, this change takes place on 1 November. Some supporting parents will be eligible on 1 November for a pensioner health benefit card but, even though they will be on a small income on the first of next month- Saturday- they will not be able to get their pharmaceutical benefits free of charge. These are the people who definitely will be disadvantaged for all of September and for all of October. Granted, in November things will right themselves for them, but why should we introduce the charge on 1 September when the other changes which will make it easier for these people will not be made until 1 November? 
Some other people in the community are disadvantaged and under the current legislation cannot receive the prescriptions which their medical practitioners prescribe without charge. I refer especially to people on sickness benefits. As far as I am aware- the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  will be able to correct me, I am sure, when she replies to this debate if I am wrong- people on sickness benefits are not eligible to receive a pensioner health benefit card. If that is the case, does it not seem illogical? If people are on sickness benefits surely they need medication of some sort; but these people cannot receive a pensioner health benefit card. We realise some people are on sickness benefits for only a short period. Nevertheless even the Social Services Act includes appreciation that people go on sickness benefits for extended terms and provides for a person to receive supplementary assistance after six weeks on a sickness benefit, provided all other conditions of eligibility are met. We do realise that people can be on sickness benefits for extended terms, but as far as I am aware, they do not receive a pensioner health benefit card. 
These people, if they are not able to receive medication without charge, or at a reduced charge, will be disadvantaged next Saturday morning as will the unemployed, especially the unemployed with large families who cannot receive a pensioner health benefit card. I suppose that in times of full employment, or what we would have called full employment, this would not have mattered too much because if a person was unemployed it was quite likely that he or she would find employment in the near future. But that does not happen nowdays. If people become unemployed, especially people from two critical groups, namely, the young people and those people who are becoming elderly- not the elderly but those becoming that way- they find it very difficult to obtain a job. Therefore, nowadays people can be unemployed for extended periods. During those extended periods of unemployment there is still no way in which they can receive free pharamaceutical benefits, benefits which are geven to pensioners and other groups in the community. We have to ensure that these people are not further disadvantaged. 
Although it may seem a little out of place, I would like to quote from a short letter I received today at Parliament House. It is not particularly out of place for me to do that because the letter is about people who are disadvantaged and deals with bulk billing by medical practitioners. If the person who wrote this letter has given me the correct story, it would seem that unless something is done in the area of bulk billing, disadvantaged people might be further disadvantaged. I will explain that after I have read the letter. It states: 
A number of General Practitioners within our locality, have brought to our notice the fact that the 75 per cent payment on 'bulk-billing' on doctors' fees, is not being met by your Government properly. 
It is not really my Government. It should read the Government'. The letter continues: 
In our community, we have a great number of disadvantaged persons, the result of the present Government's economic policy. If our local doctors are compassionate sufficiently to treat these people, then surely the federal government is responsible enough to ensure that prompt payments are made to these doctors? 
Would you please attempt to rectify this matter as urgently as possible, thus enabling doctors to carry out their duties to the needy in our community? 
What should be drawn from that letter is that some disadvantaged people in the community are being treated by doctors for 75 per cent of the schedule fee, through bulk billing. In other words, people who are disadvantaged are receiving medical attention because doctors are acting and practising in accordance with the spirit of the legislation which passed through this Parliament. But the letter also highlights the fact that some medical practitioners are not receiving payment for those visits. If that is the case, how can that make the disadvantaged even further disadvantaged? It seems to me that if medical practitioners do not receive the payment to which they are rightfully due- that payment must come from the Government- some of them will decide that it is simply not worth while bulk billing patients for the 75 per cent of the schedule fee, even though those patients may be disadvantaged. I think that it probably would be worth while to have a more careful look at the letter at a later stage. I mentioned it because I believe it highlights the fact that there are disadvantaged people in the community who need to be looked after by this Parliament, not necessarily by this Government. We in this Parliament should ensure that legislation passed looks after disadvantaged people. 
I now mention the indexation of pensions, which was announced in the Budget. The reason for my doing so will become evident within a couple of minutes. It was quite obvious to most honourable senators, even in the last part of the previous parliamentary session, let alone during the recess, that the indexation of pensions would be re-introduced. Not many of us committed our belief to paper but it was stated today that  Senator Maunsell  did so. He committed to paper his conviction that indexation would be reintroduced. Indexation was re-introduced for a number of reasons. I guess that one of them was that the Government found that its stocks within the community were fairly low and it believed that if it re-introduced indexation for pensioners it might help to get them a little bit higher. But perhaps more importantly, there had been a great amount of agitation from pensioners throughout the community and from people associated with pensioner groups to make sure that indexation was re-introduced. The Government clearly saw that this was something which the community wanted. It was plain that if the Government did not re-introduce indexation it would be at peril at the next election. 
Although indexation has been re-introduced, it will not take effect until next May. It seems that if the Government really had the welfare of the penioners at heart it would provide indexation now so that pensioners would not have to wait until November for their first rise. It will be May next year before the new legislation, which has yet to come before this chamber, will take effect. Even with full indexation taking place in November- this is a point that I wish to highlight- some pensioners will still be living below the poverty Une. The latest poverty level figures that I have been able to obtain are for the June quarter. They show that at that time the poverty level for a single person was $69.70 a week. At the moment the pension for a single person is way below that poverty level. A single pensioner receives $53.20 a week, whereas the poverty level is $69.70 a week. When a rise occurs in November he or she will receive $57.90 a week, which still will be about $1 1 below the poverty level. It is granted that some pensioners may receive supplementary assistance, but that still will not bring their income up to the poverty level. Some pensioners, due to the fact that they have a health benefit card, may receive benefits which other people in the community do not receive. But even so, the pension we are giving those people is below the poverty level. 
As far as I have been able to ascertain from the latest figures available, the poverty level for a married couple is $93.30 a week. But again, the married pension, $88.70 a week at the moment, is below the poverty line. Following the rise in November this amount will increase to slightly above the poverty level. It will rise to $96.50, compared with the poverty level of $93.30. However, if the poverty level at June was $93.30, I wonder whether by November it will be up to what the pensioner is receiving after the increase then. Many groups within the community are not able to organise themselves in a way similar to that in which the pensioners organised themselves when they wanted to get the reintroduction of six-monthly indexation of their pensions. I refer especially to the unemployed and people who are in receipt of the sickness benefit. Although a great number of people receive the unemployment benefit and a great number of people receive the sickness benefit, by the very nature of their disability they cannot organise themselves as well as the pensioners organised themselves. 
According to the latest report from the Department of Social Security- these figures are probably about 12 months old- the number of unemployed was just over one quarter of a million people. That is about the same as the number of invalid pensioners throughout Australia. A quarter of a million is a large number of people. But because unemployed people are not unemployed for ever, unlike invalid pensioners, who probably are invalid pensioners for ever, they do not combine as well as the pensioners do. They do not have the same political influence as do people who, on a continuing basis, are able to put their case for greater benefits. Maybe that is why the unemployed are not receiving pensioner health benefit cards. I outlined that earlier when speaking about particular groups who do not receive health benefit cards. 
According to the report of the Department of Social Security which I mentioned previously, 34,000 people are on sickness benefit. I suppose that that is a small number when it is compared with the number of age pensioners, of whom there are 1.2 million. Even so 34,000 is a lot of people; but they are not sick forever. If they are, I suppose they eventually go on to invalid pensions. Because they are not on that benefit forever they do not seem to have the same sort of political influence in that they cannot combine into a group and put forward their case as well as they would like to. They should therefore be looked after by us in this Parliament. They should have their case highlighted so that we do not overlook them when this type of legislation comes before the Parliament. 
A number of current deficiencies in the Budget discriminate against people who are unemployed, people who have young children and who depend upon allowances for children, and people who depend on family allowances. May I mention just a couple of those. The benefit for the unemployed people in our community who are under 18 years of age has been pegged at $38 a week. They have not had a rise in that benefit for ages. If someone has no dependants, is an adult and is unemployed his benefit has been jammed at $51.45 a week. Probably about a quarter of a million people are in this category. These people are going to find things difficult when they go into a pharmacy and have to pay extra for their pharmaceuticals. Family allowances have remained unchanged, as have children's allowances and the supplementary assistance. All these benefits help the more needy in the community and have been unchanged, but the price of goods supplied on a medical practitioner's prescription- one of the necessities of life of the needy- is to be changed. 
I would like to outline briefly the history of the increase in the patient contribution to the price of pharmaceuticals. It is important that we look at this when deciding whether this legislation should be passed. Pharmaceutical benefits were introduced on a free of charge basis on 1 September 1950 and they remained that way until 1 960 when a nominal rate of 50c was introduced. From 1960 to 1971- a period of 11 years- that charge remained the same but it was then increased by 100 per cent to $1.  Senator Baume  is not in the chamber at the moment but I presume that he is listening. To show him that I am honest in my arguments I acknowledge that during the time when the Australian Labor Party was in government- on 1 September 1975 - there was an increase of 50 per cent in the charge from $1 to $1.50. On 1 March 1976, less than a year later, there was a 33  Vi  per cent increase from $1.50 to $2. On 1 June 1978 there was a 25 per cent increase from $2 to $2.50. Now we have a 10 per cent increase from $2.50 to $2.75. These charges can be afforded by some people- but, on the other hand, a great number of people in the community cannot afford these charges and, therefore, will be disadvantaged. 

 Senator Grimes spoke earlier in the debate. He probably knows the fact that I am about to elaborate on better than I do because as a medical practitioner he would have been in close contact with it. He said that he suspects that because of the increase in the charge for pharmaceuticals some people who go to medical practitioners will have prescriptions prescribed for them but will not go to a pharmacy to have them filled. I do not know whether the figures I have here lend support to the contention that that is going on, but there seems to be some indication in the figures that this might be so. I mentioned that in March 1 976 the cost was increased from $ 1.50 to $2 and then in July 1978 it was increased from $2 to $2.50. In 1975-76, 101 million prescriptions were issued under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. However, the following year, which would have been after an increase of a total of $1, the number of scripts dropped to 89 million. The following year the number increased slightly to 93 million, which was still below the peak of 1975-76. 1 concede that all sorts of other factors could have created that pattern. But there is evidence that fewer scripts are being written under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. There seems to be some circumstantial evidence that some people who needed scripts did not have them filled because of the cost. During the course of my comments this afternoon I have spoken about the further disadvantage which will be placed on those in the community who are already disadvantaged. This is the kernel of the argument that we are putting in our amendment, which reads: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to provide for the provision of prescriptions free of charge for patients determined in an equitable fashion as being disadvantaged '. 
I support the amendment. 
Over the past three years there have been a number of changes to health insurance schemes. These changes have received legislative backing from this Parliament. I do not intend to speak politically about the different health schemes this evening. Nevertheless I can say without being political that there was often confusion in the minds of the public about the full details of the Government's health proposals. One thing was quite clear, however, and that was that between 1 October 1976 and 31 October 1978, health insurance was made compulsory for the people of Australia. It is in relation to the compulsory nature of health insurance that I address my remarks tonight. Let me stress that I have no basic argument with the concept of compulsory health insurance. The Labor Government's Medibank was originally envisaged as a compulsory scheme. It was to be financed through a levy on incomes. Only the uncompromising attitude of this Senate made it necessary to drop that proposal and fund it through general revenue. 
When Medibank was introduced it provided compulsory universal health insurance in an equitable and simple package. In fact, there are strong arguments in favour of some form of compulsory health insurance. Without the compulsion, people may be inclined to gamble on their health and subsequently find themselves in serious financial difficulties. The benefit of compulsory health insurance is that every person in the community is guaranteed protection against ill health and accidents. That guarantee is surely the whole purpose of making health insurance compulsory rather than voluntary. Yet under the current Government's scheme- the scheme which operated between 1 October 1976 and 31 October 1978- there was no such guarantee. In fact, tonight I shall outline how people found themselves worse off under that scheme than if they had no insurance at all. 
I illustrate my case by referring to the circumstances of a man, whom I shall call  Mr Smith,  who came to visit me earlier this year.  Mr Smith  had been a contributor to the Hibernian Australasian Catholic Benefit Society. He had entrusted his health insurance, then compulsory under federal legislation, to this society. In August 1978 the Hibernian Society was voluntarily wound up. Until then, he had assumed that he and his family were protected against medical expenses.  Mr Smith  had contributed about $500 annually to the fund. At the time of the collapse he had unmet claims for medical expenses of around $450 and rightfully had assumed that his claims would be met. However, when the Society was wound up contributors received only 28.5 per cent of their entitlement on medical claims. In addition, if they had prepaid their medical contributions they had only 28.5 per cent of those prepaid contributions refunded. In other words, they lost 71.5 per cent of their money. 
When  Mr Smith  sought my assistance I immediately contacted the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  to seek an assurance that contributors such as  Mr Smith  would not be penalised because of the failure of the fund. For a proper understanding of the case I consider it necessary to read to the Senate both my letter to  Mr Hunt  and his reply. My letter read as follows: 
I wish to make representations on behalf of  Mr Smith  of a Brisbane address, who was a contributor to the collapsed Queensland Hibernian Medical and Hospital Benefit Fund.  Mr Smith  contributed around $500 annually to the fund, and at the time of collapse, he had un-met claims for medical expenses of around $450. 
Contributors have now been advised that they will only receive 30 per cent of their entitlement on medical bills. However,  Mr Smith  understands that the society is paying all hospital claims, business creditors and advance contributors in full.  Mr Smith  believes that this is unfair for those with medical claims, particularly large claims such as his. 

 Mr Smith points out that Governments are quick to aid failing building societies, but are reluctant to come to the aid of health benefit societies whose members seek health insurance, not profit. He informs me that the sum needed to meet medical bills of contributors is only around a quarter of a million dollars. 

 Dr Klugman, my colleague in the House of Representatives, recently claimed that the Federal Government had approved the fund's subscription rates as being viable and therefore had to share responsibility for its failure. In the absence of any convincing alternative argument, I can do nothing but agree with  Dr Klugman  's claim. 
I would be grateful if you could consider the matters I have raised in relation to the Queensland Hibernian Medical and Hospital Benefit fund and advise me in due course. 
Before referring to the letter that  Mr Hunt  sent me in reply, I should say that there were two small errors of fact in my letter. The first was that 1 said that contributors had been advised that they would receive only 30 per cent of their entitlement in respect of medical bills. I subsequently found out that the figure would be 28.5 per cent. Also, in my letter it was mentioned that  Mr Smith  understood that the Society was paying all hospital claims, business creditors and advance contributors in full. Actually, only the advance contributors to the hospital fund were paid in full; advance contributors to the medical fund were repaid only 28.5 per cent.  Mr Hunt's  reply read as follows: 
I refer to your personal representations on behalf of  Mr Smith  of a Brisbane address concerning his benefit claim from the Hibernian Australasian Catholic Benefit Society (HACBS). 
The management committee of the Hibernian Society took the decision to cease operations with effect from 28 August 1 978, and in accordance with the provisions of the National Health Act made application to the Federal Court of Australia to have the medical and hospital funds wound up. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Federal Court shall make such order for winding up as it considers to be most advantageous for the interests of the contributors to the respective funds. Within this context, the circumstances of contributors to the medical fund and contributors to the hospital fund were considered separately by the Court as such funds are separate entities in accordance with the registration provisions under the National Health Act and may not necessarily have the same membership. In fact the hospital fund had approximately 3,500 more members than the medical fund. 
At the time of ceasing operations the medical fund was in deficit whereas the hospital fund had a surplus. 
Before taking its decision, the Court ordered that meetings of creditors and contributors in respect of both funds should be held and their views reported to the Court. 
The Court's decision was handed down on 1 1 April 1979 and an Order issued that the hospital fund and medical fund be wound up. The decision of the Court in this matter is conclusive. 
While appreciating the financial difficulties faced by some former contributors to the Hibernian Society's medical fund, I regret that I am  not  in a position to offer any assistance to them. There is no provision under the National Health Act whereby I can approve of the Commonwealth underwriting organisations in financial difficulties. 
Organisations seeking to vary contribution rates, by virtue of adverse operating experience or to finance increased benefits, are required to seek my approval of such variations. These proposals are examined by a statutory committee, including a member of the Commonwealth Actuary, for report to me. This examination, which can only be based on the financial experience and data provided by the organisation, is primarily directed to the question of the financial viability of the organisation. 
Although organisations' financial operations are subject to Government surveillance, the management committees have a basic responsibility for their own affairs and to initiate action to correct any undesirable trends that may develop. 
In relation to HACBS, it was considered that the organisation was not in severe financial difficulties. Its management committee could have taken appropriate remedial action to correct the deficit which had developed in the medical fund. However, the organisation's management opted against taking such a course of action and instead, resolved that the organisation be wound-up. Subsequently, the organisation ceased operating at very short notice and, under the provisions of the National Health Act, an application was made by the Management of HACBS to the Federal Court of Australia to have the organisation wound up. 
I trust that the above information clarifies the situation. 

 Mr Hunt stated in that letter that it is the Government's responsibility to approve the fund's subscription rates as being sufficient to keep the fund financially viable. On the other hand, he stated that the Government intends to accept no responsibility for a failed fund. So, the position of  Mr Smith  was that by law he was forced to take out some form of health insurance. He paid $500 in good faith to a fund approved by the Federal Government and then paid $450 in medical expenses for himself and his family. But because the Society folded he was unable to be reimbursed for his medical bills. Therefore, he is out of pocket by something close to $1,000 for medical expenses for one year. That is quite a sum, even for a high income earner. To a person on a low to middle income with a family to support it is a staggering sum. 
It we were dealing with a situation where insurance was voluntary there may be- I stress may be- a different argument. It might be argued that people who voluntarily take out insurance should take the normal risks involved and that if the society fails they should suffer the consequent loss. I do not subscribe to that view but, even so, health insurance at the time of which I speak was not voluntary.  Mr Smith  was simply complying with a Government direction. He, and others in the same position, paid dearly for doing what they were required to do by law.  Mr Hunt  admitted that the Government, in effect, approved the financial viability of the organisation. It was not a fly-by-night company operating behind closed doors without Government knowledge or supervision. It was a fund approved by the Federal Government at a time when health insurance was compulsory. Yet the Government took no responsibility for its failure. The victims of the Society's failure were left to suffer their financial loss, deserted by the Government which forced them into this situation. It means that we have a situation in which people, even after pa.ying their contributions, could not be assured that they were covered for the costs associated with illness. In other words, the whole point of compulsory health insurance as imposed by government decree was lost. People had no guarantee that even after taking out insurance they were covered against health costs. It is no wonder that some people think they are taking a bigger risk by paying health insurance than by remaining uninsured. 
In his reply to me,  Mr Hunt  expressed the view that the management committees of the various funds must be responsible for their own affairs and must undertake to correct any undesirable trends that may develop. This seems fair, but it does not go far enough.  Mr Hunt  said that there was nothing in the National Health Act whereby he could approve of the Commonwealth underwriting organisations in financial difficulties. I accept that. But is it beyond the wit of his Parliament to provide the necessary legislation to reimburse those who have innocently suffered because of other legislation passed by this very institution? Surely we can show that type of initiative, rather than say, in effect, 'Bad luck chum, the law will not let us do anything for you '. 
I cannot conclude without offering the opinion that the Hibernian Society itself is not blameless for the plight of the contributors. Indeed, the Government considered that the organisation was not in severe financial difficulties and that its management committee could have taken appropriate remedial action to correct the deficit which had developed in the medical fund. The Government, through its Minister for Health, says it was the organisation's management which decided to follow the course of action it did, and it was the management which opted to wind up the organisation. But by failing to take any action whatsoever, the Federal Government was not punishing the Hibernian Society. It was punishing the contributors who were complying with the law and paying contributions in good faith. 
I ask the Government to consider again the circumstances of this case and the indisputable fact that some people lost money because of legislation which passed through this Parliament. Surely we have an obligation to show compassion to some of our fellow Australians who were financially disadvantaged because of a law which was supposed to give them financial security. 
-I refer the Minister for Education to a report in yesterday's Brisbane  Courier-Mail  about the Darling Downs Institute of Advanced Education in which it was stated that the Queensland Minister for Education,  Mr Bird,  wants difficulties at the Institute 'cleared up before an already wary Canberra reacts'. I also refer to a report in today's  Courier-Mail  which states that  Mr Bird  has dropped his proposal for a judicial inquiry into the Institute. I ask the Minister whether he is aware that rumours are circulating in Queensland colleges of advanced education to the effect that there has been financial and managerial mismanagement at the Darling Downs Institute of Advanced Education and that certain influential persons are attempting to have this mismanagement covered up. Can the Minister inform the Senate what is going on at this Institute of Advanced Education and whether he is satisfied that Commonwealth funds are being responsibly used at Darling Downs? 
The Budget presented by the Treasurer,  Mr Howard,  on 22 August this year was a last-ditch attempt by a sinking Government to surface for one more gulp of air. The Fraser Government has found itself in a beleaguered position. Lately, any move it has made has rebounded against it. Prior to the presentation of the Budget the Government's stocks had gone lower and lower. If it had gone to the polls mid-term it would have been decimated. Ironically, the parties which form this Government forced the Whitlam Government to the polls mid-term on two occasions. In 1975 they achieved that with the help of a stacked Senate and dubious outside assistance. Is this Government now willing to undertake voluntarily what it forced the Whitlam Government to undertake, a mid-term election? I do not think that that is likely. It can detect the odour of potential defeat and will do anything to try to retain power or to bolster its flagging image. 
It is against that background- a background of a fearful government- that the Budget was presented by  Mr Howard.  The Budget was presented by a government which has been characterised by a penchant for ad hoc decisionsdecisions which have given the Australian people a succession of different health insurance programs which have never really been fully understood before being superseded, decisions which have taken from the pensioners conditions for which they fought for years. The Budget followed the horror of a package of tough financial measures introduced earlier this year. The Government has really come to the end of the road. It is painfully aware of one thing, however, and that is that it is absolutely essential to give its backbenchers and its sympathisers outside this Parliament some glimmer of hope for the next general election, whether that election is held this year or whether the Government clings to its sinking ship until the end of next year. 
So  Mr Howard  rose in the House of Representatives and longed that a glimmer of hope would dawn as he ploughed through his dull, tough Budget Speech. What he presented was a bitter pill. Granted, that bitter pill was sugar coated. To many Australians who listened to the Budget Speech that night the sugar coating would have given the Budget some degree of attractiveness, but soon the bitter nature of the Budget became evident. It became clear that it is not a package which will win support for the failing Fraser Government. It is a package which increasingly will become a liability for the Government as the date of the next general election becomes closer. For a short time, as  Mr Howard  presented his Budget, there was just that small glimmer of hope for which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his Government longed. But it was nothing but a piccaninny dawn. As what this 1979-80 Budget was really all about was realised, darkness suddenly descended once again. 
It is essential that we remember that the Fraser Government has been in power for over  V/i  years. When it was elected it regarded itself as the saviour of the Australian people. It was to turn on the lights, provide jobs, restore prosperity and deliver us into an era of which we would be proud. After  Vh  years the lights are out, jobs are harder to obtain, there is no hint of prosperity and the Government has found it necessary to advertise on television to boost our national pride. How long will it take the Government to deliver the goods promised in 1975 and 1977? To put the question in a different way, and perhaps to be more pertinent, how long can Australia continue to afford the Fraser Government? 
My leader in this place, when speaking earlier about this Budget, mentioned the disastrous level of unemployment in Australia. I can well remember how  Mr Fraser  promised in his 1 975 policy speech to rid Australia of unemployment.  His  policy speech asserted that anyone without a job after the parties he led came to power would be someone who did not want to work.  Mr Fraser  proclaimed during the election campaign of 1 975 that a Government he led would provide jobs for all who wanted to work. Many people believed him. Nowadays many people regret that they did believe him. The level of unemployment has risen consistently since  Mr Fraser  came to power. There has been no respite. Young people at school realise that they face a lottery when they leave school and seek a job. In their attempt to tip the scales in their favour, they must be under tremendous pressure at school. Each year since  Mr Fraser  and his Government were elected to office in 1975 more and more people have been out of work. 
There has been, of course, the usual claim over the last three years that an increase in employment prospects is just around the corner. I remember well sitting in the Senate chamber in 1976 listening to the first Budget Speech that had been presented since I had become a member of parliament. The Treasurer then was  Mr Lynch.  Towards the end of his speech he attempted to project hope for those who were looking for work. How well I remember what he said. In referring to unemployment he said that he did not expect any great reduction in unemployment in the remainder of 1976. 1 quote his exact words: 
But 1977, all going well, should see the start of a more concerted fall. 
Of course, all did not go well. Taking into account seasonal movements, the unemployment level crept upwards throughout the entire year. Undeterred by his failure to cope with the problem of unemployment  Mr Fraser  in his 1977 policy speech again predicted a lowering of unemployment. He postured then as a statesman who had unemployment under control. I quote what he said: 
We all know what the real answer to unemployment is: it's generating growth and development; it's industry providing new jobs; it's training people to fill new jobs- and keep them. 
Later he predicted: 
. unemployment will fall from February and keep falling. 

 Mr Fraser based his prediction on the alleged growth and development his policies had made possible. Again those who were prepared to give him a second chance were disappointed.  Mr Fraser's  promises and his Government's subsequent performance are separated too often by a gigantic chasm. 
What are the real facts about the Government's performance? I shall refer to the number of persons registered as unemployed with the Commonwealth Employment Service and use the January figures for 1976 to 1979. Any other month would show a similar pattern. I have chosen the first month of the year simply for convenience. In January 1976 there were, in round figures, 344,000 people registered as unemployed. In the following year, 1977- the year which  Mr Lynch  said would see a concerted fall in unemployment- the number of registered unemployed increased by 10,000. The percentage of the labour force unemployed increased from 5.62 per cent to 5.83 per cent.  Mr Lynch  's hopes for 1977 did not materialise then. Nor did they materialise in later years. By January 1978 there had been a massive leap to 445,000 unemployed, or 6.5 per cent of the work force. This was the year that  Mr Fraser  predicted would be characterised by a fall in unemployment for February, and then from February onwards. Needless to say, the seasonal fall that did occur as the year passed was not sufficient to present a fall over the number of unemployed in the previous year. By January of this year, 1979, a record 493,000 people were registered as unemployed. This corresponded to 7.5 per cent of the work force. 
So the position is clear. Since  Mr Fraser  came to power unemployment has increased. Year by year the position has become worse. Perhaps the real figures are even worse than the statistics from the Commonwealth Employment Service suggest. Many people have opted out of the work force. This is evident from the statistics, which indicate a declining participation rate in the Australian population. It was interesting to note that  Mr Howard  mentioned in his Budget Speech this declining participation rate and said that it was partly because of this that the unemployment figures had been kept to the present level. 
However, whatever be the exact figure of the number of unemployed, it is plain that unemployment is a major problem in Australia. It is a problem which one would have expected the Government to tackle in the Budget. But what has happened? The main reference to unemployment in this Budget is to a reduction- yes, a reduction- of $27m in the expenditure on manpower and training programs. It is incredible that when unemployment is such a problem there is a decrease in real terms of 24 per cent in the amount allocated to manpower and training programs. If we look at a particular program in isolation- that is, the Special Youth Employment Training Program- we find that there has been an actual cut of 54.6 per cent in the program's allocated funds. The Treasurer certainly knows how to cure unemployment! After all, in answer to a question asked during Budget week by  Mr West,  the honourable member for Cunningham,  Mr Howard  said that one of the most effective responses to unemployment in this country is to have more jobs. I think that those people out in the community who are looking for work could have told  Mr Howard  that. But did nobody tell the Treasurer that unemployment is particularly severe amongst the young? Why slash at programs which are designed to help the young unemployed? 
I am compelled to refer to the income tax measures which were announced by  Mr Howard  in his Budget. He claimed with pride that he would remove the income tax surcharge from 1 December this year. But did he remind the people of Australia that it was his Government which imposed the surcharge a year ago? Did he remind the people of Australia of his Government's promise that this surcharge would end two months ago? No, he did neither. The Government simply hoped that, having hit the Australian taxpayer on the head, it would be thanked when it stopped hitting. Let us not forget- and let us not allow the Australian public to forget- that it was this Government that imposed the tax surcharge in the first place. Let us not allow the Australian public to forget that once the tax surcharge was imposed this Government could not resist the temptation to continue to slug the taxpayer. Only because it had to produce some goods in the Budget did it lift the surcharge. It would be more precise to say that it agreed to lift it, because the surcharge will not actually go until later this year. 
In the meantime, while we are waiting for that surcharge to go, medical fees and health insurance will increase. The cost of living will rise and the gain from an as-yet-to-be-received tax concession will be completely lost. In addition, it is pertinent to question what happened to the tax indexation which the Prime Minister championed so strongly during election campaigns. It was not reintroduced, we were told, because the public did not understand what it was all about. Unfortunately for the Fraser Government the public fully understood what tax indexation was after the Prime Minister's disastrous session on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's program  AM  on 22 August. Australian citizens then fully realised what this Government was doing- taking by stealth increased tax from the pay packets of workers. 
In addition to this massive income tax slug or, as my leader  Senator Wriedt  termed it, 'tax harvesting', the Australian people now find that they are paying increasing tax each time they step into their cars. The Fraser petrol tax is squeezing the motorist, and the truth is all too clear in the statement that every petrol pump is a tax office. I would like to read to the Senate an article which was printed in the journal  The Road Ahead.  For those who do not know Queensland very well 77te?  Road Ahead  is the official journal of the Royal Automobile Club of Queensland. The editorial in the AugustSeptember edition, under the heading 'Petrol  . . a tax measure',  The Road Ahead  reads as follows: 
The price of petrol has soared to 30.S cents per litre ( higher in some areas) and more rises are on the way. 
Why? A primary reason is that the Federal Government is using its petrol tax rake-off to help balance its budget. 
Motorists can understand that some increases in petrol price are inevitable because of the policies of OPEC. 
What concerns them is that most of the price rise caused by raising the price of our locally produced crude oil to world parity goes directly into Federal Government revenue- and is used to help balance the Federal budget. lt is not being used to boost Australia's search for oil. It is not being used to finance major research into alternatives for crude oil. lt certainly is not being used to improve our roads, even though better roads would reduce petrol consumption. 
When motorists are forced to pay more and more tax on their petrol they have a right to expect that tax to be used positively, -to ensure for Australia a sound, properly planned energy future. 
Unless this is done, the whole community will question the propriety, and even the honesty, of a petrol tax that becomes just another easy way to collect tax on the community and inflates the cost of all goods and services. 
The community also looks to the Federal Government for action or control measures to ensure that oil companies do not use the present confused situation to make excessive profits at Australia 's expense. 
That is the comment made by the official journal of a motorists' body in Queensland.  The Road Ahead  is a well-respected publication. Obviously, the organisation is not at all satisfied with what is happening with regard to petrol tax and the petrol price rises that we are having throughout Australia. Many aspects of this Budget are worthy of comment but I shall dwell on just one other aspect. Doubtless many of the detailed weaknesses of the 1979-80 Budget will be well canvassed by my colleagues on this side of the chamber, but I could not conclude my comments without mentioning the subject of social security. The Treasurer the course of his Budget Speech, stated: 
. it has been decided to restore twice yearly automatic indexation for all indexed pensions and benefits. 
I remember how Government members cheered when that statement was read in this chamber by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick).  But surely they should have hung their heads in shame that such a statement should be necessary. Why was indexation removed in the first place? The Budget was merely restoring a benefit that had been wrongly removed 12 months before. Last year a spurious argument was used in an attempt to justify the removal of the six-monthly indexation of pensions. The Government told us that inflationary pressures had dropped, therefore indexation of pensions on a six-monthly basis would no longer be required. Many honourable senators pointed out then how illogical that argument was. I will not traverse those arguments again but it is worthy of note that they were well accepted by the pensioners of Australia, who would have no part of the broken promise on the indexation of their pensions. Throughout the nation they rallied and expressed their disgust at the way in which they had been treated. They voiced thenopinion to the members of the Parliament and to the public at large. Not only the pensioners, but also many members of the public, were incensed. It was not because of economic conditions that the Government decided to reintroduce the twice-yearly indexation of pensions. It was due simply to the fact that the Government could discern the deep odium which had descended upon it because of the thoughtless decision that it had made in 1 978. The Government knew that it had no possible hope of survival if it did not reintroduce indexation this year. 
-But the Government is not yet out of the woods in relation to pensions. Two facts are indelibly imprinted on the minds of pensioners. The first is that the pensioners are still losing money. They had indexation due to them in May, but it was taken away by last year's legislation. 
-It is amazing that every time we mention pensions an honourable senator on the Government side of the chamber- I was going to say gentleman but I am not permitted to do so- decries the fact that Labor is trying to do the best that it possibly can for the pensioners. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
1 ) What is the current form of oath which is required of persons seeking Australian citizenship. 
) Is the form of this oath set out in an Act or regulations or is it the result of an administrative policy decision. 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications been drawn to the prize winning design for the cover of the 1 980 Brisbane telephone directory? Is the Minister aware that the design, symbolising the development of communications over the years, features modern man speaking over the telephone with a cigarette or a cigar drooping from one corner of his mouth? In view of the Government's ban on cigarette advertising in the media, does the Minister consider that it is suitable to feature a smoker on the cover of a government publication? 
asked whether I am satisfied that Commonwealth funds are being used responsibly at the Institute. As is the case with most colleges of advanced education in the States, the Institute is established under an Act of the State Parliament. It has a council composed of community representatives, elected staff and student representatives, and State Government nominees. It is responsible to the State Government for its activities: it is subject to audit by the State Auditor-General. Under the provisions of the relevant States Grants legislation, the State is required to certify that the grants made by the Commonwealth to the State for advanced education arc expended in accordance with the conditions set out in that legislation. Certificates provided by the State in accordance with the legislation for 1 977 were not qualified in any way. 1 understand that the Queensland Minister has stated that a qualification has been made in relation to recurrent expenditure at the Institute for 1978. This certificate has not, as yet, been received by the Tertiary Education Commission. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Industrial Relations: Is the Government still not deducting union dues from the salaries of members of the Australian Public Service Association, having ceased that practice earlier this year? If that is the case, what is the reason for the policy and will it be reversed in the near future? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 May 1979: 
1 ) How many appeals relating to each social security pension, benefit and allowance were: (a) upheld in each State by the Department of Social Security without referral to the relevant Appeals Tribunal in the March, June, September and December quarters of 1975 and the December quarter of 1976, and (b) dealt with by the Appeals Tribunal in each State in the March, June, September and December quarters of 1975. 
What are the detailed results of the appeals in Category ( b) above, shown under the same headings as were provided in the table included in the answer to Senate question No. 2 1 1 (see  Hansard,  1 June 1 978, page 23 10 ). 
The existence of the Bjelke-Petersen Foundation is well known. It has been mentioned in this Parliament on a number of occasions. I should like this evening to recall a few of those occasions on which it was mentioned. On 28 May this year my colleague  Senator Elstob  asked a question about the Bjelke-Petersen Foundation. I quote the text of his question, which reads thus: 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen an article on page 7 of the  Australian Financial Review  of 25 May in which it was stated that Australian taxpayers will help to underwrite a corporate fund raising campaign by the ruling National Party in Queensland to the tune of $ 1. 2m? The article further claims that a letter sent by the  President  of the National Party in Queensland,  Sir Robert  Sparkes, stated that the tax dodge in this scheme is legal if donations pay for advertisements placed in the  National Outlook.  Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate confer with the Prime Minister and the Treasurer to see whether the scheme is one of the kinds of scheme the Treasurer intends to stop, as he mentioned in the mini-Budget last Thursday? Will the Minister inform the Senate of the outcome of the discussions in the near future? 
In his reply  Senator Carrick  said: 
I will direct the attention of the Treasurer to the matter and to  Senator Elstob  's request for a response. 
I believe that my colleague has not yet had a response to that question which was asked on 28 May. On the same day  Mr Humphreys,  the member for Griffith in the House of Representatives, asked a question on the same topic. The question which appears in  Hansard  and is headed 'Donations to Political Parties' reads: 
Is the Treasurer aware that the  President  of the Queensland Branch of the National Party of Australia has written to business corporations informing them that donations to the National Party in the form of advertising in the Party's magazine  National Outlook  are tax deductible and that donations, such as the $100,000 donation from the former Gold Coast Mayor,  Sir Bruce  Small, will be deductible at 46c in the dollar? Given the Treasurer's firm commitment last Thursday night to crack down on tax avoidance, will he consider amending the Income Tax Assessment Act effectively to prohibit or discourage excessive advertising expenditure which might be abused in this way? Finally, as donors of more than $ 10,000 receive dinner invitations from the Premier, and since the Federal Treasury is subsidising almost 50 per cent of all donations, does the Treasurer intend to take up the Premier's invitation on behalf of the Australian taxpayer? 
In the reply which  Mr Humphreys  received was this sentence: 
As far as the Government and I are concerned the National Party of Queensland or any other branch of a political party in Australia will not be given any privilege under the tax law. 
On the same evening I spoke in the Senate on this particular matter in the adjournment debate. Amongst the matters that 1 raised was the fact that in my opinion the Senate should be aware of what was going on because it seemed at that stage- this was on 28 May- that a major tax fiddle was being master-minded in Queensland. I outlined that evening how donations to the Party were being put to advertising funds and used in a way in which they might be able to be claimed as a tax deduction. The situation which I raised went something like this: A party might buy for $5,000 an advertisement in  National Outlook.  That advertisement may be worth, say, $5, $50 or perhaps even $500, but the company would claim as a taxation deduction the $5,000 which it had paid. Basically that was the scheme which I outlined in May. 
I illustrated the fact that this type of advertising was being used as a means to obtain tax deductions by quoting a letter which the BjelkePetersen Foundation had sent to a member who had given financial support. Tonight, for the purposes of the argument that I am developing, I think it worth while quoting this letter once again. It read as follows: 
The Bjelke-Petersen Foundation gratefully acknowledges your financial support, and on behalf of everyone involved wc offer our sincere thanks. 
Incredible though it may seem, despite the fact that our Party is battling to protect the free enterprise system in which individuals and companies have thousands of millions of dollars at stake, our capacity to combat the Socialists and Communists is impaired by a chronic shortage of funds. 
Therefore, your financial. assistance will not only serve to honour a great Queenslander who has dedicated his life to the preservation of our free enterprise democracy, but it will also help to ensure the continued strength and effectiveness of a political organisation committed to.' the same great cause. 
The following are the details of your intended gift. Please check and advise us if there is any variation. 
Five headings were listed underneath the letter. The headings were used as a check list. The first one indicated the amount and the fifth one stated: 'Advertising to be negotiated'. Whilst some people might not agree with some of the sentiments expressed in that letter, I give it as an illustration of how advertising was being canvassed in relation to the Bjelke-Petersen Foundation. I said on 28 May that one could question the legal basis for a suggestion that donations to a political party made in this way could be tax deductible. I also suggested that it was morally indefensible because a person who is on a wage or a salary and who makes a donation to a political party of his choice cannot claim that donation as a tax deduction. If he cannot claim it as a tax deduction, others who are using this method should not be allowed to do so either. On 22 August this year 1 asked a further question in relation to this matter. The question I asked was as follows: 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer the Minister to that part of last night's Budget Speech which mentioned revenue lost due to tax avoidance schemes. I also refer the Minister to reports relating to the manner in which the National Party in Queensland is raising funds for the Bjelke-Petersen Foundation, and in particular to statements by the Queensland  President  of the Party,  Sir Robert  Sparkes, that donations to the Foundation can be made tax deductible by placing advertisements in the Party's magazine  National Outlook  at uncommercial rates. Will the Minister assure the Parliament and the Australian people that the Taxation Office will undertake a full investigation of these reports that the National Party is obtaining its donations for the Bjelke-Petersen Foundation by encouraging tax avoidance on the pan of potential donors? Will the Minister also give an assurance that every effort will be made to ensure that donors to the fund make their donations in a way that does not relieve them of their responsibility to the Australian people to pay their rightful share of tax? 

 Senator Carrick 's reply started with a number of buzz words and concluded with this sentence: 
I will refer the substance of this question to the Treasurer and see whether he wishes to comment further. 
As it transpired, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  did wish to comment further. Today I received a letter from the Treasurer in relation to that question which I asked on 22 August. The last paragraph of the letter is the key paragraph, but I believe that the whole letter is worth reporting to the Senate. After all, it is a reply to a question that I asked in this place. The letter reads as follows: 
The Minister for Education,  Senator the Hon.  J. L. Carrick, has drawn my attention to a matter you raised during question time on 22 August 1 979. You were concerned with a possible loss of revenue as a result of reports that the State  President  of the Queensland branch of the National Party of Australia has been making statements that donations to the Bjelke-Petersen Foundation can be made deductible for income tax purposes by placing advertisements in the party's paper 'National Outlook'. 
You asked  Senator Carrick  to give assurances that a full investigation of those reports will be undertaken and that every effort will be made to ensure that donors to the Foundation make their donations in a way that does not relieve them of their responsibility to the Australian people to pay their rightful share of tax. 
The fund raising activities do not constitute a tax avoidance scheme of the kind to which I referred to in the Budget Speech. This is not to say, however, that the suggestion made by the State President is correct. 
The Commissioner of Taxation has advised me that the Foundation is not one of the bodies encompassed by the gift provisions of the income tax law. From what he has ascertained regarding the Foundation's aims and objects, the Commissioner is of the view that the only avenue available for the allowance of donations as tax deductions would be by way of the general provisions of section SI ( 1 ) of the Income Tax Assessment Act. That section authorises the allowance of deductions for outgoings to the extent that they are incurred in gaining or producing a taxpayer's assessable income or are necessarily incurred by a taxpayer in carrying on a business for that purpose, except to the extent that the outgoings are of a capital, private or domestic nature. 
The Commissioner is of the view that, to the extent that payments to the Foundation do not represent genuine advertising expenditure, deductions are not allowable in the assessments of donors and proposes to take action accordingly. 
As I mentioned earlier, the key paragraph to the letter is probably the last one in which the Treasurer said that the Commissioner was of the view that to the extent that payments to the Foundation were not genuine advertising expenditure, deductions would not be allowable and the Commissioner of Taxation proposed to take action accordingly. Donors to this Foundation should be aware that if they make donations and expect them to be tax deductible because they are placing advertisements with  National Outlook,  they are unlikely to attract much of a tax deduction. Those people who make donations to the Foundation and do not take advertising in  National Outlook  probably will not receive any tax deduction at all. 
-As I outlined earlier, the person who was reported to have made the statement that tax deductibility would occur was  Sir Robert  Sparks,  President  of the Queensland branch of the National Party. 
-He is  President  of the Queensland branch of the National Party. If people are aware of the fact that their donations might not be tax deductible, that might be sufficient for them to make up their minds whether they want to give a donation and not claim a tax deduction or whether they do not want to give a donation. However, perhaps something more important is involved. I believe that if a person or company now makes a donation to the Bjelke-Petersen Foundation, that person or company could become involved in a web of intrigue which seems to be unfolding - 
My colleague,  Senator Mulvihill,  understood what I was leading up to. I will mention the Watergate aspect very shortly. I believe that it is important for the Senate and the people of Australia to be aware of the contents of part of a  Willesee at Seven  program which was telecast tonight. I have a copy of the transcript of that program, part of which I shall read because I think it should go into the  Hansard  record and honourable senators should be aware of the contents of the program. On the  Willesee at Seven  program tonight, Paul Makin began speaking about the matter thus: 
A Melbourne millionaire has been accused in the Queensland Parliament of trying to buy $100,000 worth of favours from the Government of Premier Joh BjelkePetersen. Until today the people of Melbourne weren't able to read about the allegations in their daily papers. The millionaire is  Mr Ian  Rice. The accusations concern the rezoning of land near Queensland's Gold Coast to benefit his company. Though the rest of Australia heard about the story last Wednesday,  Mr Rice  took out injunctions stopping the publication of the story in Victoria. In other words, the proceedings of the Queensland Parliament could not be reported to the people of Melbourne. They know  Mr Rice  very well. The injunctions were lifted late yesterday and not unnaturally the story about the alleged buying of favours is now front-page news in Victoria. After all,  Mr Rice  is not only rich, he's also one of Melbourne's leading citizens and a former city counsellor. Ian Gillespie has been investigating. 
Ian Gillespie said this on the program tonight:   . . official and business world. He's good looking, has a very dapper image, and lives in  this  imposing house in Toorak, Melbourne's millionaire's row. He is also a selfmade millionaire. He operates the Kentucky Fried Chicken chain in Victoria, has leased race horses in partnership with Andrew Peacock, the Foreign Minister, and is married to the daughter of a former Lord Mayor. But for all that Ian Rice has kept a pretty low profile. He doesn't seek publicity.  His  name first popped up in Queensland Parliament last week- 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- There is no point of order. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  I should place on record the fact that not only was I not laughing when I was reading from the transcript but also immediately the Minister for Science and the Environment,  Senator Webster,  sat down he burst into laughter. The transcript continues: 

 His name first popped up in Queensland Parliament last week when the Liberal Member for Southport Peter White referred to land at Labrador on the Gold Coast which had been rezoned by the Queensland Government after an application by Bexley Corporation. Ian Rice is  Chairman  of Bexley Corporation. The same application to build a shopping centre had already been rejected by the Gold Coast City Council.  Mr White  told Parliament and I quote, 'lt seems to be common knowledge on the Gold Coast that  Mr Rice  has expressed the view that he would be quite prepared to donate $100,000 to obtain a favourable decision. On the same day, that's last Wednesday, Ian Rice took out a Supreme Court Injuction prohibiting that Parliamentary Debate from being published in Victoria. That move is almost unheard of because Parliaments in Australia have traditionally been subject to privilege, which means that debate is immune from the laws of libel and defamation. It was only yesterday that the Supreme Court lifted its bans. Meanwhile a Brisbane school teacher Colin Colston has signed a statutory declaration alleging that Bexley Corporation offered $20,000 to his local progress association if it collected a thousand signatures in favour of another shopping centre planned by  Mr Rice's  company.  Mr Rice's  staff have told me he is not available for an interview for legal reasons.  His  only reply so far has been this telegram stating 'I've had read to me what was said by the member for Southport in the Queensland Parliament this morning. Each allegation is false. I deny every allegation of improper conduct on my part contained in that statement. Please do not publish these  false  allegations'. The telegram is signed by Ian Rice. The allegations have set off a hornet's nest in the Parliament of Queensland. Queensland's Minister for Local Government Russ Hinze is flying back from overseas to answer allegations that political favours can be bought from the 
Government, lt has been revealed that Ian Rice is on the Committee of the Bjelke-Petersen Foundation which raises money to fight election campaigns. It's also been confirmed by the National Party that  Mr Rice  has donated money to the Foundation.  Mr White,  the man who made the allegations in Parliament also hit the headlines in another story today.  His  electorate district of McPherson- 
That is not correct, but that is what appears in the transcript:  includes two other M.P.'s the Federal Finance Minister  Mr Robinson  and Queensland Liberal M.P. Bruce Bishop. On Sunday night the electorate office was broken into and files showing the names of people who have made Party donations was stolen. Police believe the break-in, which has been compared by Liberal Party organisers to a Watergate burglary, was politically motivated. And last Tuesday a file was removed from another house connected with  Mr White.  This time his office in Parliament House. Queensland Premier Joh Bjelke-Petersen has described the allegations as an attempt to undermine his Government and denies that any subterfuge took place over land rezoning. But despite that denial and the denial by Ian Rice it's clear that the whole matter is going to build up into a major issue in the weeks ahead. 
I mention the following matter because, if I do not mention it, some honourable senators might well raise questions about it. One of the persons named in the transcript, Colin Colston, is a cousin of mine. I suppose I have not seen him for about five or six years, even though he lives in Brisbane. It is necessary that I indicate that last night I was aware that Colin Colston had signed a statutory declaration to the effect outlined in the transcript because he rang me and told me what had happened. That was the first time I was aware that his progress association had been approached by  Mr Rice's  company. I do not think that the fact that he is my cousin has anything to do with this story. The fact that he has signed a statutory declaration should be sufficient for members of this Senate to accept the facts as he has outlined them. 
I believe that at this stage if any person or company decides that he, she or it is a potential donor to the Bjelke-Petersen Foundation, he, she or it should look at what is happening in relation to some of the donors. Such people or companies should look at the intrigue that is occurring in Queensland at the moment. They may sit back in the future and rue the fact that they became involved in the Bjelke-Petersen Foundation. They will certainly find that, contrary to what the  President  of the Queensland National Party said earlier this year, there is very little possibility that they can claim tax deductibility for donations to the fund. If they go through the scheme that was evolved of making donations to the fund but taking advertising in the party's paper,  National Outlook,  they will find that very little of that will be regarded as tax deductible. Even so, to use the comment made by my colleague  Senator 
Mulvihill, this whole web of intrigue is developing into an Australian Watergate scandal. It seems to me that it may become the biggest scandal ever involving the Queensland Government. When I say that, it is really saying something, because a number of scandals have occurred there year after year. It is important that this matter be reported to senators in this place. It is important that it becomes known to the people of Australia. Those companies in Queensland which are thinking of becoming involved might have second thoughts when they look at all the facts. 
The Minister representing the Minister for National Development would be aware from comments made in this chamber, including comments made today by  Senator Keeffe  and  Senator MacGibbon,  that some station owners in north Queensland are unable to obtain sufficient supplies of avgas to carry out essential station duties. Can the Minister advise whether investigations have been made to see whether restrictive practices are being used by oil companies in north Queensland in relation to the distribution of avgas? Will the Minister assure the Senate that the Government will ensure that existing supplies of avgas are allocated on an equitable basis? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
What was the time, or what were the times, on which the first two Members referred to in the answer to Senate Question No. 1581 used Commonwealth car transport on 25 April 1979 and to what place or places did they travel in that transport (see  Hansard,  23 May 1979, page 2045). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 9 May 1979: 
1 ) What is the maximum distance for which a member of Parliament may be provided with car transport at Government expense between his home and an airport or railway station when travelling to or from Canberra on parliamentary business. 
Were there any occasions, between 1 April 1979 and 1 May 1 979, on which a member of Parliament in Queensland received car transport at Government expense: (a) for a distance greater than SO kilometres from within his electorate but from other than his home; or ( b) beyond 1 SO kilometres, when travelling to or from Canberra on parliamentary business; if so, what are the details. 
-I give notice that, on the next day of sitting,  I  shall move: 
That the Senate take note of the Report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission on Special Assistance for States 1979, tabled in the Senate on 9 October 1 979. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
Did an advertisement in the  Sunday Mail,  29 July 1979, state amongst other things, that ' university research indicates 67.2S per cent success for Ma Evans hair restorer'; if so, what are the details of the university research referred to. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. Have some Queensland teachers who normally work as presiding officers and poll clerks on an election day been informed by the Australian Electoral Office that their services might be required on 8 December this year? If so, is this an indication that the Government is seriously considering holding a general election this year? 
Honourable senators- Oh! 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It is prompted by the impending adoption of daylight saving in three of the eastern States. The Minister will be aware that in recent years Queensland has suffered because it has adhered to Eastern Standard Time. In particular, the Australian Broadcasting Commission has sometimes completely disregarded the needs of Queensland residents. I therefore ask the Minister whether he will use his good offices to ensure that the Australian Broadcasting Commission continues to broadcast its programs in Queensland at the normal time during the forthcoming summer months. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
How many different types of advertisements did Telecom Australia use to outline its case to the public in the industrial dispute involving Telecom during June and July 1979. 
In which newspapers did these advertisements appear. 
What was the cost of the advertisement in each case. 
Did the advertisements appear anywhere other than in newspapers; if so (a) where; and (b) what was the cost in each case. 
What was the total cost of placing these advertisements in newspapers or other media. 
Were there any costs, such as preparation of copy, other than those mentioned in (S) above; if so, what are the details. 
To what budget vote or appropriation did Telecom charge the cost of the advertisements. 
Did Telecom offer funds to the Australian Telecommunications Employees' Association to advertise similarly its side of the dispute; if not, why not. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Education by referring to a report headed 'Criticism of Australian Capital Territory Schools "uninformed" ' in yesterday's  Canberra Times,  in which the Chief Education Officer of the Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority,  Dr Beare,  is reported to have stated that 'scare talk about open-plan schools caused public concern'. Is the Minister aware of any research which has evaluated the educational progress of students in open-plan schools, compared with that of students in conventionally built schools? 
The Senate is debating the Social Services Amendment Bill 1979. My colleague,  Senator Grimes,  has moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. In order that those who are listening to the debate understand the amendment, I will read it as  Senator Grimes  moved it. He moved: 
At the end of the motion add ', but the Senate is of the opinion that it should provide for- 
1 ) twice yearly indexation of benefits for the unemployed without dependents; 
) an increase in unemployment benefits for those under 18 years; 
removal of the provisions relating to the mandatory postponement period for the "voluntary" unemployed and those who fail the work test; 
removal of the provision of refusing unemployment and special benefit to those unemployed through the industrial action of others; 
the updating of supplementary allowances and allowances for pensioners' children to compensate for inflation, and 
an increase in family allowances to compensate for their erosion by inflation'. 
The previous  speaker, Senator Walters,  who has already left the chamber, did not really have her heart in her speech until she referred to the period when she was in her mid-20s and recalled the time when the Chifley Government was in power. She suddenly had a burst of enthusiasm in referring to something which occurred over 30 years ago. There is probably no more to say about  Senator Walters  ' speech than that. 
I can recall that not long after this Government was elected in 1975, it moved savagely against some social services beneficiaries. Although I was elected to the Senate in 1975, I had not taken my place in this chamber before the assault started. At that time the Parliament was not consulted on some of the issues which were moved against those who were social services beneficiaries. Arbitrary decisions were made about how measures could be taken to cut down the number of people receiving unemployment benefit. Back in 1976, after I had entered this chamber, the Government's insensitivity culminated in its defeat in this chamber over the abolition of funeral benefits, a matter which had to come before the Parliament. Some aspects of this Bill show similar assaults being made upon social security beneficiaries. 
Another part of the Bill attempts to patch up a grave error which was made by the Government last year. This error hurt many pensioners. It also hurt the Government's electoral standing. If it had not been for the harm that had been done to the electoral standing of the Government, I have no doubt that the wrong would not have been redressed in the legislation that we have before us tonight. 
This evening I intend to limit my comments on the Bill to three areas. The first one is the provision of twice-yearly indexation of pensions and benefits. The second is the entitlement to the unemployment benefit in cases where there is industrial action. The third is the postponement of unemployment benefit. My colleague,  Senator Grimes,  mentioned these points when he spoke to the Bill. I will elaborate on some of the points that he raised. 
I will first look at twice-yearly indexation. In 1978, pan of the Budget strategy was to abolish six monthly indexation of pensions. In doing that, this Government callously broke promises that it had made in the 1 975 and 1 977 election campaigns.  Senator Guilfoyle,  the Minister present tonight, had boasted particularly in the 1 977 election campaign, that the Fraser Government had taken politics out of pensions. When this matter was debated last year and when it has been debated on a few occasions since, we know how it has been shown that that boast was made both in speeches made and advertisements in the daily Press. To save funds in the Budget strategy of last year, money was taken out of pensioners' pockets. The promises made in 1975 and 1977 were broken. Politics were reintroduced into pensions with a vengeance. 
The decision made in 1978 to abolish sixmonthly indexation of pensions led to massive protests by pensioners throughout Australia. People who had never before protested about a measure which had been undertaken by government, did so with determination last year. In Brisbane, the capital of the State which I represent, pensioners gathered in their thousands to go to the Brisbane City Hall to protest against the abolition of six-monthly indexation. Throughout Queensland pensioners gathered to rally and to protest at what had happened. I recall especially two of those rallies which I was invited to attend. One was in Bundaberg and the other was on the Gold Coast. 
On the Gold Coast, hundreds upon hundreds of pensioners gathered to outline what they thought of the abolition of six-monthly indexation. It was especially poignant that these pensioners who live on what is regarded as the playground of Queensland, a place one usually associates with people on high levels of income, came out in their hundreds to protest. In Bundaberg even more people gathered. They came from Bundaberg and places all around the district. They not only gathered and protested in a hall against the abolition of six-monthly indexation but also took to the streets of Bundaberg to voice their protest. One knows the risks one takes when one goes on to the streets in Queensland. They took that risk and went in to the streets of Bundaberg to voice their protest. Those people did not want to see their hard won right taken away from them. 
The pensioners of Australia showed in no uncertain terms that they would fight to the bitter end. It was not difficult to predict that sixmonthly indexation of pensions would be reintroduced in the August Budget. I recall speaking to some of my supporters before the Parliament resumed for the Budget session. I predicted then quite clearly that indexation of pensions would be reintroduced. Why did I say that it would be reintroduced? First, the Government had realised its folly. It realised the electoral damage that it had done to its own stocks. It realised the further damage that would occur if it persisted with yearly indexation of pensions. When it realised those things it understood that it had to bring back six-monthly indexation. 
Secondly, it realised that the cost of reintroducing six-monthly indexation this year would be only minimal. The new indexation provision will not operate until next May. In May and June 1 980 only will extra funds be required for six-monthly indexation. We would have had indexation next month regardless whether sixmonthly indexation had been reintroduced. The impact of the six-monthly indexation in the current legislation is that it will not be required until May and June of next year. When we look at the indexation provisions in this Bill, we must not forget one point. The introduction of this Bill is a clear victory for pensioners in Australia, the people who went out and voiced their disapproval of what had happened. They took up the fight against a promise-breaking Government. They won that fight. Tonight I congratulate those pensioners on the stand that they took and on the victory that they won. 
It is not very often that we in this chamber have the opportunity of listening to members of the House of Representatives when they are debating Bills. But last week I was outside this Parliament when the House of Representatives debate was being broadcast. I listened on a car radio to the broadcast of the debate on this very legislation in the House of Representatives. I did not listen for very long, but I did hear the honourable member for Darling Downs,  Mr McVeigh,  make a speech on this Bill.  His  speech was punctuated with nonsense. He denigrated the Labor Party's achievements with respect to pensions. He wrongly implied that the Fraser Government's achievements were superior to those of the Whitlam Government. That claim is false. I wish to outline the percentage increases in pensions made since 1972 until the introduction of the current rate. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which is entitled: 'Age Pension and Supplementary Assistance 1973 to 1979'. The source of this table is data supplied by the Statistics Group of the Legislative Research Service. I have previously shown this table to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  She had no objection to its incorporation. 
Leave granted. 77ie  table read as follows- 

<graphic href="083232197910245_72_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Senate,  Mr President.  If we study this table, we see that it shows the increases in pensions since 1972 using constant 1972 to 1973 prices. By doing that we can see the percentage increase of pensions in constant prices throughout. For instance, in 1972, the single rate pension was $20 a week. In 1 973, using constant prices, it was $20.40 a week. For those who are able to study the table, I draw attention to the 2 per cent single rate pension increase in real terms from 1972 to 1973. In 1973 to 1974 when the Whitlam Government was in power it was 15.2 per cent. During the next year when the Whitlam Government was still in power the percentage increase in real terms was 10.6 per cent. If we look at the percentage increases which followed that, we see that they are: Minus 1.2 per cent- the first year that the present Government was in power- 3. 1 per cent, 0.0 per cent, and minus 1.1 per cent. I invite attention to the rest of this table which shows the percentage increases in the pension for a pensioner who has supplementary assistance, and also for married persons with and without supplementary assistance. 
I will just mention a couple of points of this table. Between 1972 and 1975 the single rate pension increase in real terms was 30 per cent. From 1975 to 1979 the pension rate increased by 0.8 of a per cent. That is quite a difference. I mention this because of what  Mr McVeigh  outlined last week when he was speaking in the House of Representatives and denigrated the actions of the Whitlam Government. If we look at the married rate pension, if we take supplementary assistance into account, the increase from 1 972 to 1975 was 21.3 per cent, but there was a decrease from 1972 to 1975 of 1.71 percent. These figures show how false the argument that  Mr McVeigh  outlined in the House of Representatives last week was. 
I move now to the postponement of unemployment benefit. I find it incredible that the Government is legislating to make a minimum postponement of benefit of six weeks, and will make this up to 12 weeks for what is called voluntary unemployment. The discretion given to the Director-General, I believe, is too wide in three of these cases where this postponement can occur. Let us look at what the Act actually states. Section 1 20 of the Act states: 
The Director-General may postpone for such period as he thinks fit the date from which an unemployment benefit shall be payable to a person, or may cancel the payment of an unemployment benefit to a person, as the case requires: 
if that person's unemployment is due, either directly or indirectly, to his voluntary act which, in the opinion of the Director-General, was without good and sufficient reason. 
That is the first instance in which the unemployed benefit can be postponed. It says 'in the opinion of the Director-General'. Of course it is not the Director-General who in practice makes the decision but any one of probably hundreds of his delegates. Are they able to make infallible judgments about circumstances in this area? I believe it is not likely that they can. What happens if they do not make an infallible judgment? The person is denied benefit at the time that it is needed. A person may be unemployed, probably genuinely unemployed; a mistake may be made because in the opinion of someone he left his job without good and sufficient reason. Then while he is unemployed, while he really needs some assistance, he does not receive it. 
It seems to me that the new motto of the Government must be 'let them starve' because that is what could happen in these circumstances. Of course the person may take the case to the Social Security Appeals Tribunal, but appeals take time. The appeal could be upheld a long time after this person is back at work. I have seen this occur too often. A person has been denied his benefit. I have had cases in which a person has brought his problem to me or one of my staff. We have gone through all of the possible ways that we could to make sure that he receives his benefit. The matter goes to the Social Security Appeals Tribunal, but too often the appeal is upheld after that person is back at work when he does not really need the money. He needed the money at the time when he was unemployed. 
This Bill will impose a mandatory six-week suspension. That provision, which I am sure we will discuss when we reach the Committee state, is set out in clause 41 of the Bill. In part it states: 
A period of postponement fixed in relation to a person under sub-section (1) . . . shall not be less than 6 weeks or more than 12 weeks. 
So it must be six weeks if in the opinion of someone he has left his job without good reason. 
-Certainly. As  Senator Cavanagh  mentions, it could be up to 12 weeks. But the point is that it must be at least six, and in that six weeks he or she does not receive any benefit. I was quoting from section 120 of the Act which states that the unemployment benefit shall be postponed: 
if that person's unemployment is due to his misconduct as a worker. 
Who says that the person has not lost his job because of misconduct? Does the story of the employee get full consideration? Does the employee have the opportunity to refute any of what may have been an exaggerated story from his former employer? 
-I have had the experience of appearing with an appellant before a Social Security Appeals Tribunal. On these occasions the employer's story is given, but the notes of his comments only are available. He is not there for the employee or the person who is representing the employee to cross-examine him. My experience is that the employer's word is gospel. The employee is disbelieved. As  Senator Chipp  said just a moment ago, the employer might have been chasing this person around the table, with or without success. Under these circumstances the employee would have good reason to leave the job. Would the employer say that this was the reason why the person left? Not likely! So we will have this conflict of interest. The employer tells one story which may or may not be correct and the employee tells another story. In the meantime while all this is being sorted out, the person does not get employment benefit for at least six weeks, at a time when that person needs the unemployment benefit. A miscarriage of justice occurs too often. It will occur more often under this new provision. This mandatory provison that no benefit will be paid for six weeks will make it more and more difficult for the unemployed. 
I turn now to unemployment benefit and industrial action. I find it impossible to believe that the Government was seriously thinking of social security concepts when it framed this part of the legislation. If I might just quote from the proposed new section of the legislation to which  Senator Grimes  referred earlier and about which  Senator Grimes  pointed out quite well that there may be neighbours who are out of work for the same reason, but because one neighbour belongs to a certain union and the other one does not, one receives unemployment benefit and the other does not. The proposed new section of the legislation is contained in clause 35 of the Bill, the relevant parts of which state: 
A person is not qualified to receive an unemployment benefit in respect of a period unless: 
the person satisfies the Director-General that the person's unemployment during that period was not due to the person being, or having been, engaged in industrial action; 
That provision, I presume, takes into account people who are actually on strike. But it goes on with an 'and'. So the person is not qualified to receive the benefit unless: 
the Director-General is satisfied- 
that the person's unemployment during that period was not due to another person or other persons being, or having been, engaged in industrial action; or- 
The provision is rather long, but it is worth while pointing out what it states: 
if the Director-General is satisfied that the person's unemployment during that period was due to another person or other persons being, or having been, engaged in industrial action- that the first-mentioned person was not, during that period, a member of a trade union of which the other person was a member, or of which any one or more of the other persons was or were a member or members, during that period. 
What does all that legalistic jargon mean? It means that if a person in Queensland, the State 1 represent, happens to become unemployed as a result of a strike in Victoria, where one of his fellow union members has gone on strike, my constituent in Queensland, who had no ability at all to say whether the strike in Victoria should proceed or who in fact may oppose it, as  Senator Grimes  said earlier, does not receive unemployment benefit. He may have opposed it, but he does not receive unemployment benefit because one of his colleagues in another State has gone on strike. I use that as an example.  Senator Chipp  from Victoria, who will follow me, might switch it the other way and say that one of his constituents will not receive unemployment benefit because of something that happened in Queensland. Whether it is one State or another, whether it is one neighbourhood or another, it means that people who have taken no action to provoke a strike or to ensure that a strike takes place or, indeed, who may not even agree with the action that is being taken, will not receive unemployment benefits because one of their union colleagues has gone on strike and caused unemployment in another area. 

 Senator Walters, who spoke previously, defended this measure by going back to the 1940s. Goodness me, there are some people in this Parliament who were not even born at the time  Senator Walters  was talking about. We are talking about the late 1970s and we are making legislation for the 1 980s. This legislation is a provision to attack the Australian union movement. I cannot see it as anything else. I see it as a weapon in what  Mr Fraser  has referred to as his armoury to fight the unions. In case listeners think I am just using that term and ascribing it to  Mr Fraser  without just cause, let me quote what he said last Friday on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  AM.  Mr Fraser  said this: 
I think that you '11 find and I think there 's an appreciation of it that the Commonwealth's own employees through the  CEEP  Act and for the legislation that went through the Senate at 3 o'clock last night- 
He actually meant 3 o'clock that morning- 
. that the Commonwealth is really taking to itself the kind of armoury that we believe is needed. 
He was talking about an armoury to use against the union movement in Australia. I think  Mr Fraser  actually sees this as another weapon in his armoury. It is a petty, mean, and thoroughly repugnant piece of legislation which makes sure that a worker does not receive unemployment benefit because one of his union colleagues somewhere else has provoked a strike which has eventually caused unemployment in his area. When this provision is first used, and used it will be because it will be part of the legislation, it will bring wrath upon the Government. The public servants who administer the legislation will have to apply the provisions of this Act; this provision will be used. I do not think the full implications of this amendment have really been seen and I do not think they will be seen until this piece of legislation has to be used. When workers find out that they cannot receive unemployment benefits, that their wives and children will not have anything to sustain them because of the action of someone somewhere else, then wrath will fall upon this Government. 
When I began speaking this evening I outlined the amendment moved by my colleague,  Senator Grimes.  I support the amendment, but in doing so I give notice to the Government that its insensitivity to the unemployed, to those people in the union movement whom I have just described, and to the dependants of those people, will loom large at the time of the next election. 
-I would like to pose some questions to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  Earlier my colleagues said that it would be possible under the existing legislation for a person to have his or her benefit terminated for, say, a period of 1 5 weeks. As far as one reads that legislation it seems that that could be possible. Did the guidelines that were issued to departmental officers set out a maximum period that they should observe under the current legislation? If the guidelines did, was the period until recently six weeks? If that is correct, was it recently changed to a maximum period of 12 weeks? I will probably have some further supplementary questions to that, but I think that if I leave the question at that stage I can follow it up with the other queries I have. In other words, did the guidelines state a maximum period of six weeks until recently; was it changed within the last couple of months to a maximum period of 12 weeks? 
Last night during the second reading stage, I outlined my objections to this clause. I do not intend to traverse them again. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  recently said words to the effect that the usual term of postponement was six weeks. I have met many people who have had terms of postponement of less than six weeks. I have met many people who have had postponement for two weeks under this particular section 120 of the Social Services Act. That being the case, if the same sort of people are to have a postponement, it will have to be at least four weeks more. I can see ample justification for putting an upper limit on a postponement so that the officers of the Department of Social Security know that they cannot go beyond a certain limit. But I cannot see any justification for making a minimum provision. I cannot recall having heard during the debate any reason why six weeks was chosen to be a minimum, and why the DirectorGeneral was not given the discretion of making some postponement between one week and 12 weeks if 12 is to be the upper limit. 
I ask the Minister whether, when this new provision becomes law, new guidelines will be issued to officers of the Department of Social Security. Is it normal for the contents of the guidelines to be made known to people outside the Department of Social Security? Finally, does the Department have statistics which indicate what were the average periods of postponement over the last year so that in 12 months time, if we do keep statistics, we will be able to make a comparison with what happened over the previous 12 months? 
We are debating two Bills cognately, the Overseas Students Charge Bill 1979 and the Overseas Students Charge Collection Bill 1979. My remarks will be confined to the Overseas Students Charge Bill 1979. To the motion that that Bill be read a second time  Senator Grimes  has moved an amendment on behalf of the Opposition. The amendment reads: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'consideration of the Bill be deferred until the Government presents a comprehensive proposal for a program of educational aid for students from developing countries according to denned criteria including priority attention to academic ability, the needs of the developing nations and the needs of particular students '. 
The purpose of the Overseas Students Charge Bill is to introduce an annual charge on overseas students studying in Australian universities and colleges of advance  I  education. Before proceeding to a general discussion of the Bill, I wish to make some comment on part of the statement made by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  in the House of Representatives on 22 August. On that day the Minister remarked: 
In recent years almost 75 per cent of students completing formal studies have applied successfully for resident status. 
This matter was mentioned by the previous  speaker, Senator Puplick,  only a few minutes ago. The honourable member for Maribyrnong,  Dr Cass,  at the time canvassed this issue. As far as I can ascertain he did not receive a reply to the matters he raised. In fact,  Dr Cass  also canvassed these issues only yesterday when this Bill was passed by the House of Representatives. Part of his suggestion was that the 75 per cent was a spurious statistic. Why is it spurious or why was the suggestion made that it was a spurious statistic? It has been suggested that to obtain work experience, overseas students who have been studying in Australia are advised to apply for permanent residence. I ask the Minister to confirm whether this is so when replying to the second reading debate. Many students who study in Australia need to have some work experience before they go back to their home countries if their education is to be the full education that they expected when they first came to Australia. Take, for instance, a person doing an engineering course. It is all right for him to do a four years engineering course at university but unless following that he gets some work experience for one or two years he will not go back to his home country with his skills developed to the level required in his home country. 
It has been suggested to me that students who want to stay for one or perhaps two years to gain that experience have been told that they must apply for resident status. The information given to me is that they do obtain this resident status. If that is so, some of those included in the 75 per cent that has been mentioned are students who applied to stay simply so that they could continue their education in the work force and then go back to their home countries after one year or perhaps two years. It would be more precise for us to be given a figure, not of those who were given resident status, but of those who remain in Australia after one or two years or those who stay in Australia permanently. It may be that if we are given those figures we would find the percentage is quite low. In fact, the honourable member for Maribyrnong placed a question on notice some time ago in relation to overseas students.  His  question revolved around that point. The content of the question is pertinent. I shall read it to the Senate. He asked: 
How many overseas students have been attending Australian educational institutions during each of the last five years under (a) bilateral aid agreements, and (b) as private students. 
What was the country of origin of each student? 
How many from each country completed their studies? 
How many students from each country (a) applied for permanent resident visas, and (b) were granted permanent residence visas? 
The fifth point is pertinent tothe argument that I have just been canvassing. It reads: 
How many ex-students from each country returned home (a) immediately after completing the courses and (b) after two or three years of work experience? 
The question continues: 
What conditions, financial or otherwise (such as the relevance of courses chosen to meet the needs of the country of origin) are imposed on private study students before permission is granted to study in Australia? 
As far as I am aware,  Dr Cass  does not yet have a reply to that question. We need an answer so that we can understand better the background of these Bills. I ask the Minister in his reply to advise whether these figures are now available or whether they will become available in the near future. 
I now turn to aspects directly associated with the Bill. This Bill bears all the hallmarks of another ill-thought-out revenue scheme by this Government. It illustrates decision making without regard for a number of consequences. I refer to the consequences for education in Australia, Australia's immigration policy and Australia's foreign policy. In each of those areas there are direct consequences from the two Bills that we are discussing tonight. I do not believe that the consequences were well thought out when this scheme was put forward or when it was thought up by the Government and put into the package of Bills that went into the Budget. 
I illustrate this by referring to another policy area of this Government. We all know that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has had imposed on him numerous and contradictory health scheme changes. In fact, the Australian people know this only too well. Over the past three or four years they have just become used to one health measure when it has been changed and they have had to get used to another. These changes were not designed to serve the health provisions of the nation; rather they were designed to serve the fiscal needs of this Government. In a similar way the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs or perhaps the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  or perhaps both, have had imposed on them these overseas students charge Bills, despite the fact that they introduce clear inconsistency into our educational policy. They revive, whether justly or not, suspicions that our immigration policies are racist. In some of the overseas countries there are suspicions that our immigration policies are racist. This measure that we are debating tonight, which imposes fees on students who are going to come from overseas countries to study in our universities and colleges of advanced education, will only reinforce the feelings in overseas countries that we have a racist immigration policy. It also contradicts our foreign policy, in which Australia says that it will help people in overseas countries to obtain a better standard of living and to have more educated people. The whole thrust of our foreign policy is contradicted by these measures. 
I wish to make a small quote from the remarks of a person who was a very highly respected member of this Parliament, and who I believe is still highly respected, even by those on the Government benches. I believe that although he was a member of the Australian Labor Party and a Minister in the Labor Government, he is still highly respected by most people on the other side of the chamber; he is certainly respected by those on this side. I refer to Kim Beazley who was the former Minister for Education. When he made the statement to which I referred he was probably under the impression that the Bills would be introduced by the Minister for Education. The fact that that is not the case does not detract from what he said. In relation to this package of Bills, only last month he stated: 
The action of the Fraser government in cutting out the form of foreign aid inherent in making Australian universities, colleges of advanced education and technical colleges free to some 3,000 overseas students a year (mostly from Asia) is poor and paltry. 
The policy made a link with the future leaders of Asia and was inherently right in itself in the sense that tertiary education was made free from January 1974, regardless of race, and won Australia a great deal of goodwill. The propaganda attack on this country is for race bias.  Mr Fraser  and  Senator Carrick  justify the attack. 
Perhaps we could add the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs as well. That is the sort of argument I am pursuing, namely, that it will not be good for Australia's foreign relations. It seems clear to me that this scheme was made on the run, just as were the health policies that I described a couple of minutes ago. It appears to me to be one of the last minute changes that occurred just before the Budget was finalised. 1 can imagine what happened. A number of Ministers were sitting around and they said: 'How can we raise some more revenue?' Some person said: &gt; Ah, we will get $6m from overseas students; let us announce the new scheme and once we have done that we will work out how we will do it'. That seems to me to be the sort of action that would have been taken to produce a scheme like this. I think that there is some evidence that this is so. On 29 August in this very place, in answer to a question about this scheme,  Senator Carrick  said: 
The details have not been fully or precisely defined. 
Or course they were not. They were not known when the Budget was brought down a few days earlier. It now seems from some statements that it is not a tuition fee, as it was suggested it would be in the Budget, but a visa tax. It is the same thing, whether it is called a tuition fee or a visa tax. These people are coming from overseas and they will pay dearly for the privilege of being able to study in Australian universities and colleges of advanced education. 
As the months have passed since the Budget introduced the tuition fee or visa tax the problems associated with the changes have become apparent. For example, originally the Government had no clear idea of how to define a private student. The result is that there is now a list of exemptions, developed mostly since the Budget. That list of exemptions has become tremendously long. From memory,  Senator Puplickthe  previous  speaker  in the debate- outlined all of these exemptions. To name only a few, the list of exemptions include many scholarship holders, students sponsored by overseas governments, reciprocal exchange students, students coming to Australia as part of an external studies course, residents of external territories. In addition to these, a whole set of transitional arrangements have been thought up since the Budget. 
After all that, what remains of the $6m the Government set out to save? Incidentally, what does that $6m represent? It is important that we look at what it represents when we consider what it will do to Australia's image overseas. It represents less than one per cent of the Government's foreign aid program and it represents less than one per cent of total Federal Government expenditure on universities and colleges of advanced education. It is a sum which will be reduced by administrative costs and by the exemptions that have already been made. I repeat that the measure was ill-prepared; it was made on the hop. It threatens to become a bureaucratic nightmare. It is typical of the measures for which this Government hunts around. It hunts around for measures in which the victims have no political clout, in which they are unpopular or in which they are defenceless. 
If we take each of those situations where people do not have political clout, are unpopular or are defenceless, we can see immediately where the Government has attacked those groups in recent times. For instance, the unemployed have become second-class welfare recipients. In the last day or so the unemployed have been attacked by the legislation brought into this place. Unionists stood down through no action of their own are discriminated against in unemployment provisions. The Senate discussed this matter only yesterday and today. What pleasure it must have given the Government to add to its revenue by charging voteless overseas students. 
The new measure introduced provides for a discriminatory charge. The charge is formally based on residence but overwhelmingly the only students who will pay fees in Australian tertiary institutions next year will be Asian students. This is why the measure is so discriminatory. Inevitably the fee will be seen as discriminatory in the source countries. It is in the national interest to abolish such charges and forgo the $6m in revenue. It may be far less than $6m; we are not sure at this stage. It is important that we look at the possibility of scrapping the whole thing because the image of Australia is at stake. 
The claim is sometimes made that overseas students come from wealthy homes. For instance, the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has said that many people are well able to afford such costs. I think this statement is disputable. We can say with a great deal of certainty that the students who come here are not children of Asian peasants. But most of them appear to come from Asian middle-class families. This issue was raised in the  Age  on 13 September last. The  Age  said: 
Most of the 8,300 private overseas students have come from middle-class families who sacrifice about a third of their incomes to send their children to university. 
I think the suggestion that most of the people who come here are wealthy can be disputed. On the other hand, if they did come from a wealthy family there would still be some discrimination. There would still be people from overseas paying fees at universities. But what would happen is that the fee system would produce a wealthy elite. I have not mentioned the actual fees that are envisaged. However, I should do so to put on record how substantial these fees are. For a master's degree or Ph.D. an overseas student will pay $2,500 a year. A medical, veterinary science or dentistry student will pay $2,000 a year and other students will pay $1,500 a year. I was interested in  Senator Grimes's  earlier remarks in regard to these fees. He asked whether we really know that a Ph.D. student or a master's student will cost the universities or the taxpayers more than a medical, veterinary science or dentistry student. I think that was a very good point, and one which we should look at. It seems that these figures were plucked out of the air, just as the whole argument was plucked out of the air. 
When I look at this measure I begin to wonder whether this is the first step towards the reintroduction of fees in tertiary institutions in Australia. It is all right for honourable senators opposite to say: 'We have told you that we will not re-introduce fees in tertiary institutions in Australia'. We know how many promises have been broken by this Government. We have to be very wary of promises that are made. When we see a flag which indicates that there might be something in the wind, we have to look at it very carefully and ask: 'Is this the harbinger of something that we do not really want to see occurring in Australia?' After all, the measure means in reality that some students will be paying for tertiary education next year. Despite the nice turn of phrase by the Government, it is really a tuition fee. Despite what it might be called and where it might be collected, these students are being charged because they are to undertake education at a university or college of advanced education in Australia. This is in direct conflict with what the Minister for Education has said. Let me just quote a letter about tertiary education fees that he wrote this year to the Education Vice  President  of the Australian Union of Students.  Senator Carrick  said: 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate condemns the Government for its failure to ensure that the Australian Broadcasting Commission retains rights to televise national sporting events and its subsequent failure to provide through the Australian Broadcasting Commission a television coverage of the 1979 Melbourne Cup to many rural areas of Australia. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Education been drawn to a statement in the  Sun-Herald  newspaper of 4 November 1 979 which suggests that there are:  increasing enrolment rates at private schools, possibly because more and more parents are becoming dissatisfied with the State school system. 
Can the Minister confirm that the matters raised in the  Sun-Herald  are correct? 
-The Senate this evening is debating the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Amendment Bill. There are two amendments which the Bill puts before the Senate. The first amendment is to increase the annual percentage of net personal income tax collections allocated to local government from 1.52 per cent to 1.75 per cent. The second amendment is to enable periodic review by the Commonwealth Grants Commission of the relative State shares of the total funds allocated under the Act we are amending this evening. 
Ten years ago such a Bill as we have before us tonight would not have been presented to the Parliament. Ten years ago the Commonwealth did not make general purpose funds available to local government. Indeed, it was not until the Whitlam Government amended the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act that it was possible for the Commonwealth to make equalisation grants to local government throughout Australia. When we are debating this amendment Bill tonight we should remember that it was during those years, from 1973 to 1975, that the changes were made that allowed the Commonwealth to become directly involved in helping the third tier of government, local authorities throughout Australia. Sometimes we probably take it for granted that Commonwealth funds of some size go to local authorities, but this really started only after the election of 1972, which, as we all know, was towards the end of the year. It was during the period from 1973 to 1975 that this principle of the central government helping to fund local government bodies throughout Australia really began. In those days the funds were passed through the States, as they still have to be. We still do not have the power as a Commonwealth Government to make funds directly available to local authorities. There are some minor exceptions, but these minor exceptions rely on other Acts which allow certain moneys to go to local authorities because they are carrying out certain functions such as welfare functions. 
After 1975 the system changed. After the Fraser Government came into power it continued to provide untied funds although the format by which it provided them became different. The principal differences included a fixed percentage of personal income tax being made available. The funds were basically intended for two purposes. There was a per capita grant for local authorities and there was an equilisation grant. After the Fraser Government came into power funds were no longer distributed by the Commonwealth Grants Commission, but were distributed by individual State Grants Commissions. 
I point out to the Senate that the second reading speech made in the House of Representatives contained a significant error in relation to funding. I point this out because I have some criticisms about the comments that have been made this evening in relation to the so-called extra funds this Government is providing to local authorities. I shall show, as I go on, that this Government is really not providing extra funds. In real terms it is providing less funds than were provided in 1 975. May I point out the error in the second reading speech in the House of Representatives. Because of the comments I will make later, this error is a pertinent one. When this Bill was introduced in the House of Representatives  Mr Howard  said: 
As a result of the tax sharing arrangements which were introduced in 1976-77, general revenue or 'untied' funds made available to local authorities have increased very substantially- by 1 45 per cent in the three years to 1 978-79. 
The percentage was not 145; it should have been 125. I will give figures which illustrate that this was so. The untied or general purpose grants which were provided from this Government to local authorities in 1975-76 totalled $79.9m. In 1978-79, they amounted to $ 179.4m. If one takes the difference between those two figures and calculates the percentage increase, one finds that it is 125 per cent. The figure given by  Mr Howard  was changed by the time the Bill came before this place, and in the second reading speech in the Senate it appeared not as 145 per cent but as 125 per cent. I believe this occurred because the error was highlighted by one of the members of the Opposition in the House of Representatives. We all know that errors can occur in calculations, but it is unforgivable when in a second reading speech wrong statistics are used in a boastful sort of way to illustrate how much extra funds the Government might be providing in a particular area. 

 -As Senator Wriedt says, it is inexcusable. It certainly is. 
The 125 per cent, however, camouflages what is a really sorry record. Let us look at the funds that were provided in 1975-76 by the Whitlam Government under the last Hayden Budget and the amounts that were provided in 1978-79. In 1975-76 $263.5m was provided by the Commonwealth in tied funds to local government. But in 1978-79 $153. 1m in tied funds was provided, which is a 42 percent decrease in funds. 
I now refer to the total funds provided by the Commonwealth to local government authorities throughout Australia over those two periods. In the last Hayden Budget in 1975-76, $343.4m was provided. But in 1978-79 less was provided- $332.5m, a 3 per cent decrease. If one talks in real terms and bases the 1978-79 figures on 1975-76 dollars it is not a 3 per cent decrease, it is a 26 per cent decrease. It is totally wrong for the Government in the second reading speech to say that it is allocating 125 per cent more to local government. Perhaps it is in one area but one cannot take that area alone. One must look at the totality of funds provided to local government. Local government is now 26 per cent worse off in real terms than it was in 1975-76. That is a sizeable percentage for local government to absorb by providing less to ratepayers or by charging extra in rates as  Senator Gietzelt  said only a short time ago. 
I think that the Government should have been more realistic and should have stated that there were cuts in this area. I will compare what was stated in the second reading speech with  Senator Chaney  's attitude when the States Grants (Roads) Amendment Bill 1979 was recently before us.  His  attitude was quite refreshing. He admitted that less funds were made available. I quote from Senate  Hansard  of 16 October 1979.  Senator Chaney  replied to criticism about the Bill, and said: 
In this area, as in other areas, the position of the Government is that its allocation of funds is one which is made in the light of the Government's overall approach to the economic management of Australia. We came into Government and were re-elected to Government on the basis that we believed that restraint in expenditure was necessary. It is therefore obvious that in debates such as this restraint can be pointed to. It would be a little odd if one could not do so. I make no apology for that. 
That was a refreshingly honest comment about the fact that less funds were made available. I think that we could have had such a refreshingly honest comment about the lesser amounts of funds being made available from the Commonwealth to local government when this Bill was introduced. I refer now to the figures presented by the previous  speaker, Senator Young.  I did not do this immediately I started my speech because I wanted to leave it until I spoke about the amounts of funds which this Government is providing to local government.  Senator Young  said that from 1975-76 to 1976-77, from the last year of the Labor Government to the first year of the Fraser Government, there was a 75 per cent increase in funds made available to local government. Again he is hiding the facts. These are the facts: There was an increase in general purpose assistance to local government from $79.9m in 1975-76 to $140m in 1976-77. That represents an increase of approximately 75 per cent, which is the figure  Senator Young  mentioned. But he did not mention that in other payments by the Commonwealth to local government there was a sizeable decrease. In 1975-76 other payments amounted to $263. 5m but by 1976-77 those payments had been reduced to $135. lm. This is a reduction of approximately $ 130m. Local authorities really were not better off in the following year. If one looks at the total story one can see that less funds were made available. 
There are some other matters apart from funding that I want to discuss in relation to this Bill. It is all very well to pass funds to the States and to tell them to allocate the funds amongst their local authorities. In theory this sounds quite reasonable, but I have some misgivings about what is happening in Queensland, the State that I represent. The funds that we are passing over to the States have been collected by the Federal Government. Therefore, I think that the Federal Government should have some concern that this money is wisely allocated. At the moment there is deep and significant concern in Queensland that the funds that have been provided for local government are not being wisely spent. I will quote from a speech made by the  President  of the Local Government Association in Queensland on 5 September 1 979 in Mount Isa. Councillor Rogers, in a presidential address before the Local Government Association, said: 
The recent announcement by the Local Government Grants Commission of the distribution of Commonwealth funds to local authorities, is in my opinion, nothing short of a disaster - 
What a comment for the  Chairman  of the Queensland Local Government Association to make in a presidential address, that the allocation of funds by the Local Government Grants Commission in Queensland was nothing short of a disaster. He continued: 
. in no way will the Commission's recommendations instil in local authorities any confidence in the Commission. 
He was not talking about the Commonwealth Government or the amount of money that the Commonwealth had provided to the Queensland Government to be distributed amongst local authorities; he was talking about the way in which this money had been distributed. It is interesting to note that when Councillor Rogers made these comments- I will read more of them later- the  Chairman  of the Queensland Grants Commission was on the stage with him. I wonder how the  Chairman  winced when these comments were made. I think other comments made by Councillor Rogers are worth while reporting to the Senate. He said: 
There is no doubt in my mind that with the level of funds for distribution in Queensland being up by some 23.48 per cent on the 1978-79 year, local authorities could reasonably have expected an average type of increased grant across the board- something of the order of 20 per cent. The figures reveal that excluding Albert Shire which was a special case, 62 local authorities were granted increases of less than 20 per cent, and of those, 23 received increases of 5 per cent or less while 1 4 had increases of less than 6 per cent. 
Councillor Rogers goes on to quote local authorities which received percentages that were quite low despite the fact that the actual increase in the funds available, was as he said, about 23 per cent. He went on: 
In relation to the remaining Councils which received increases ranging from 20 per cent to 107.9 per cent and therefore enjoyed something of a bonanza when the mean average was of the order of 27 per cent, one Shire Chairman in the 50 percent bracket told me he was embarrassed. 
This is what I mean when I say that in Queensland there is significant concern that the funds that the Commonwealth is allocating are not, in turn, being wisely allocated among local authorities there. 
Recently, as do most Queensland senators from time to time, I travelled into the far north west of Queensland. Councillor Rogers spoke about this area and said: 
Having twice travelled extensively in far Western Queensland, both in the North and South firstly in 1977 and again in July of this year, I very much appreciated the extreme privations and difficulties experienced by the people who live there, and their justification for support. It was therefore with considerable satisfaction I noted the substantial increases to Diamantina (64.2 per cent) and Barcoo (75 percent). 
I might just mention that Diamantina is in the western area of Queensland and has Bedourie as its principal centre. Barcoo is not quite so far west and has Jundah as its principal centre. Councillor Rogers was speaking of increases of 64 per cent to Diamantina and 75 per cent to Barcoo but he went on: 
I was equally appalled at the level of grants to Burke (4 per cent) and Carpentaria ( 1 8 per cent). 
Those honourable senators who know Queensland well will know that Burke is a local authority centred on Burketown and that Carpentaria is a local authority that is centred on Normanton. If we in this Parliament are to allocate funds to a State government and say to it, 'It is your responsibility to allocate them to the local authorities in your State', we should have some concern whether those funds are being wisely allocated. 
I mention Councillor Rogers' comments on that occasion in referring to the report of Queensland's Local Government Grants Commission. Those honourable senators who follow the Commonwealth Grants Commission's reports will know that, when special assistance is given to a State, the Commission produces a fairly weighty and detailed report. One such report was presented to this Parliament not too long ago. It comprised six chapters and more than 200 pages. That is totally different from the report that is put out by the Grants Commission in Queensland. Councillor Rogers said: 
To date I am not aware of the Local Government Grants Commission ever publishing the methods or formulae used by the Commission in arriving at its conclusions. 
If that is so, how are local governments to know that they have received the correct allocation? How are they to know that their submission was properly made if this information is not provided. Councillor Rogers continued: 
At least the Commonwealth Grants Commission saw fit to justify its decisions. Apparently the State Grants Commission sees no necessity to offer any comment in justification of its actions! 
This is a matter which really cannot be brushed aside. We are the initial custodians of the taxpayers' funds and it is necessary that we ensure that they are spent wisely. I urge the Commonwealth to discuss these matters, which initially were raised by Councillor Rogers, with the Queensland Government so that some confidence can be engendered in the Grants Commission of Queensland. If local authorities themselves do not have such confidence, it will not augur well for the future allocation of funds under this scheme. 
I wish to raise one further matter that is pertinent to the State that I represent. The Commonwealth Grants Commission, in is special report in 1979 on 'Financial Assistance for Local Government', discussed possible ways in which funds could be distributed amongst the States.  Senator Davidson  mentioned that report earlier this evening. On pages 10 and 1 1, the report sets out five possible options- that is, ways in which the Commonwealth could allocate funds between the States. Option A would be to distribute in proportion to the respective unweighted populations of the States. In other words, the populations would be determined and the funds would be allocated according to that ratio. Option B was somewhat similar but proposed a distribution in proportion to State populations, weighted on a prescribed basis. Options C, D and E were a little more complicated. At page 15, the report states: 
The Commission recommends that the Government give consideration to the adoption of Option A- distribution on a population basis- on the grounds of its simplicity and predictability. 
I imagine that to allocate the total funds that we have available for local authorities amongst the States on a population basis would indeed be simple and predictable but that does not mean that it would be the best method to adopt. I really doubt that that option would be accepted by a majority of the States. The share of personal income tax that would be payable to local government by four States- New South Wales, Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmaniawould be reduced if option A were used. I refer those honourable senators who are interested in the way in which that reduction would occur, to a table which is set out at page 1950 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 1 1 October 1 979. That table, which was incorporated by the honourable member for Reid,  Mr Uren,  shows that Queensland would receive 7.5 per cent less, New South Wales 1.3 per cent less, Western Australia 6.2 per cent less and Tasmania 7.5 per cent less. I doubt that those four States would allow that type of sharing arrangement to proceed without first making firm representations concerning it. 
Earlier, I mentioned the speech made by Councillor Rogers to the Local Government Association of Queensland. The Councillor referred during that speech to the Commonwealth Grants Commission's recommendation that option A, which I have just been discussing, be adopted on the basis of its simplicity and predictability. He described it as very disturbing and reported to the conference that he had requested the Premier of Queensland to register that State's objections with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to option A's being used for the distribution of funds to the States under the personal income tax sharing legislation. Councillor Rogers and the members of his association in Queensland can be assured that senators from Queensland will object if option A is adopted. I should imagine that Councillor Roger's counterparts in other States will also find senators from those States objecting if this change is made- a change which would result, in less being received for distribution to local government. 
Some of the comments that have been made by previous speakers have suggested that there has been criticism of the Bill from this side. The 
Opposition does not oppose the measure. I have offered some criticism of the amounts which Government supporters claimed were now being allocated to local authorities. I believe that that was fair criticism. However, I made some other criticism which I hope that the Government will take not as criticism of it but as constructive criticism so that when we are allocating funds to local authorities, the third tier of government which is regarded traditionally as being the closest to the people, we allocate them on an equitable basis. I trust that these criticisms, which I regard as being constructive, will be looked at by the Government. I hope that when we look at a similar Bill in the future- I assume that we will be doing so because the Government has indicated that it will increase the share of personal income tax from 1.75 per cent to 2 per cent- we will not have to offer these constructive criticisms because some of the anomalies which are currently present will have been ironed out. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
Does Australia Post operate the Post Office at Greenvale, Queensland; if not, who operates it. 
-The Minister for Social Security will recall that, in August,  Senator Bishop  and I asked questions in relation to supplementary assistance and special benefits. I ask the Minister: Has this matter been investigated? If so, what has been the result of the investigation? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Can he provide the Senate with any information in relation to a meeting between United States and Australian authorities on the claim for damages by Dillingham-Murphyores and, in particular, as to the level at which negotiations are taking place? Is it possible that, as a result of the negotiations, the Commonwealth Government is about to change its policy towards export restrictions on minerals mined on Fraser Island? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to the comment of the Commonwealth Ombudsman in his second annual report, 1979, that in relation to the Department of Social Security in his view 'in a handful of cases concerning the payment of unemployment benefits, the Department has not been helpful'? Is it departmental policy not to be helpful to the Ombudsman in his inquiries? If not, has any action been taken following this assertion by the Ombudsman? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
1 ) In which newspaper did the advertisement 'So that the public interest is served' appear. 
What was the cost of the advertisement in each case. 
Did the advertisement appear anywhere other than in newspapers; if so: 
where; and 
b ) what was the cost in each case. 
What was the total cost of placing this advertisement in newspaper or other media. 
Were there any costs other than those mentioned in (4); if so, what are the details. 
To what budget vote or appropriation did the Public Service Board charge the cost of the advertisement. 
Did the Public Service Board offer funds to unions covering the Australian Public Service to advertise similarly their side of the dispute; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
Has the Commonwealth received the 1978 certificate from the Queensland Government in relation to expenditure by the State for advanced education under the provisions of the States Grants legislation; if so, (a) what qualifications have been made regarding recurrent expenditure at the Darling Downs Institute of Advanced Education (DDIAE) for 1978; and (b) has any Commonwealth funding been misappropriated by the DDIAE council during that period. 
What are the full details of any misappropriation. 
I could not let pass without comment what  Senator MacGibbon  had said. Unfortunately, he missed the whole point of my argument. I do not know whether he was in the chamber when I was speaking. I made it quite clear that I realised that these were untied grants. I refer  Senator MacGibbon  to page 87 of the Commonwealth Grants Commission report for 1979, also to page 1 75, and an earlier page that he should be able to pick up fairly readily, which refer to the matter of metropolitan transport. That was the only aspect that I was looking at. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Have officers of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs been ordered to recall pamphlets on the Numerical Multifactor Assessment Scheme of migrant selection, or.NUMAS as it is often called? If so, what has prompted the order to recall the pamphlets? Does this mean that NUMAS will not be used in selecting migrants wishing to come to Australia? If.so, what system of migrant selection does the Government intend to adopt to replace NUMAS? 
-I would like to take a few minutes of the Committee's time to reply to the comments that  Senator Chaney  made in replying to my second reading speech. He said at the time that there was some confusion about negative needs or the assessed needs in Queensland for metropolitan transport. I can assure  Senator Chaney  that there is no confusion in my mind. However, there is probably confusion in the minds of many people who have not really studied the Grants Commission report. When I first looked at the section in the report which mentioned metropolitan transport, I was rather taken aback to see that the amount for the assessed need of metropolitan transport for Queensland was minus$13.6m. This is the figure  Senator Chaney  mentioned. But we must remember that the crux of the matter is not the negative need of $13. 6m. If Brisbane's metropolitan transport undertaking had not been taken into account Queensland's negative assessed need would have been far highersomewhere around $25m. The difference between those two figures- the amount of$12m- is the extra amount that Queensland is going to receive because metropolitan transport is taken into account. 
The whole concept is rather difficult to comprehend, yet once it is understood, it is very simple to see that Queensland is receiving more by way of grant than it would if metropolitan transport were not taken into account. In fact, the assessed special need for Queensland for 1977-78 was set at$ 15.4m. That is not the amount in the Bill because money has been paid earlier by way of an advance grant. Rather than receiving$ 15.4m, if metropolitan transport had not been taken into account Queensland would have had an assessed need of approximately $3m. The difference between those two figures is the amount of funds I was speaking about. Very few people really understand how Queensland is receiving extra money because of the Brisbane metropolitan transport undertaking. I can assure  Senator Chaney  there was no confusion in my mind. 
It was mentioned that a subsidy of 50 per cent of fare box collections was payable by the Queensland Government to the State Government. That is quite correct. As  Senator Chaney  showed, there was an increase in the amount payable from the Queensland Government to the Brisbane City Council over the years since Queensland first had a grant from the Commonwealth Grants Commission because of metropolitan transport undertakings. The 50 per cent of fare box collections is nowhere near the amount that the Queensland Government is receiving because of the inclusion of the metropolitan transport undertaking. From memory, the figure for the year we are discussing, 1977-78, was $4,886m payable to the Brisbane City Council by the State Government. But about $12m came through the Grants Commission. Incidentally, a subsidy on fare box collections is probably not a very good way of providing a subsidy for a metropolitan transport system because if one wants to obtain more subsidy one puts up the fares. If one puts up the fares one probably has fewer passengers and, therefore, could end up with less fare box collections. It would seem to me that if a subsidy were to be paid it should not be tied to fare box collections because that is not an easy way for a transport undertaking to increase any subsidy that comes to it. It is probably a good way for the Queensland Government but certainly not for the Brisbane City Council. 
I wish to mention also the aspect of the notional deficit. I am not really sure that this is a good argument against the particular amendment that I have moved. Probably the best argument against it is a philosophical one and probably there would be a different philosophy on either side of the chamber. I think that really we are arguing not about figures but about a method of approach. It would seem to me that probably the notional deficit argument was not a good one. I believe that in some respects the notional deficit for Queensland, in respect of metropolitan transport in Brisbane was, in some ways, reduced by the Grants Commission because Queensland was not charging fares as high as those that were being charged in the two standard States. I mention those aspects merely by way of illustration. Usually I have found in this chamber that the debate goes the other way around, in that the Minister is able to respond to criticisms, but on this occasion, in moving the amendment, I have had to use the Committee stage to bring forward these few points. (  Quorum formed). 
This afternoon the Senate is debating the Queensland Grant (Special Assistance) Bill 1979. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill but to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time, I now move: 
At the end of motion add, 'but the Senate deplores the failure of the Queensland Government to make available to the Brisbane City Council all funds included in the Grants Commission assessment of Queensland's special needs due to losses incurred by the metropolitan transport system, and calls upon the Federal Government to ensure that the Queensland Government makes full payment of such funds to the Brisbane City Council in this and future years '. 
I shall outline later in my speech the reasons for my amendment but first I wish to make some general remarks about the Commonwealth Grants Commission and the current claim of Queensland. I have mentioned previously in this chamber that, as a Queensland public servant, I assisted in the preparation of cases that were put before the Grants Commission. These cases were considered by the Commission when it was deciding what financial assistance, if any, should be made available to the State of Queensland. On one occasion I appeared as a witness before the Commission. Because of my association with the Commission as a public servant, both in the preparation of cases to go before the Commission and as a witness before it, I have taken a special interest in the Commission's activities. As the 46th report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission has specifically referred to Queensland- the State that I represent- I have even more interest. 
The main purpose of the Queensland Grants (Special Assistance) Bill 1979 is to authorise payments to Queensland of $ 12.4m in special grants. These grants are in accordance with the recommendations set out in the 46th report of the Commission. It is worth recalling that the Grants Commission was appointed on 17 July 1933. It made its first report in July the following year, covering applications made by South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. The fact that the Commission has been in existence since 1933 makes the record of Parliament's acceptance of its recommendations remarkable. It is well to recall some words of the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  in his second reading speech. He stated: 
The Commission's recommendations in relation to the special grants arrangements have been adopted by the Parliament each year since the Commission's inception and the Government considers that they should be accepted on this occasion. 
The fact that the grants have been adopted each year by the Parliament is a remarkable achievement. Nevertheless, it is a practice which should continue to be followed unless exceptional circumstances occur. As a senator for Queensland I certainly support the payment of this grant but I do have reservations about the way this grant will be used. Those reservations, on which I shall elaborate later, have prompted me to move my amendment to the Bill. 
The existence of the Commonwealth Grants Commission acknowledges the fact that some States suffer financial disabilities by comparison with New South Wales and Victoria- often referred to in this context as the two standard States. In other words, it acknowledges the fact that within our federal system there is financial inequality among the States. The general principle of the Commonwealth Grants Commission is to investigate that financial inequality when a request is made for it to do so. It is accepted that its recommendations will strive to ensure that the residents in the State investigated will enjoy similar services to those provided to their fellow Australians in the standard States of New South Wales and Victoria. One of the strengths of our federation is that we can minimise the inequalities between the States by using, amongst other measures, the Commonwealth Grants Commission. On the other hand, it is difficult for the Commonwealth to minimise inequalities within States. Some progress in this regard has been made by way of funds payable under the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act. Nevertheless, a great deal remains to be done. In general, given the provisions of the Constitutional constraints u. der which the Federal 
Government operates, it is the States themselves which are required to minimise the inequalities within their boundaries. 
It is easy to understand why Queensland is at a disadvantage in relation to the two standard States. I shall outline some of those reasons. An examination of the populations of Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria immediately reveals a disadvantage. At 3 1 March this year the population of Queensland was 2.2 million, the population of Victoria was 3.8 million and the population of New South Wales was 5 million. One disadvantage that occurs as a consequence of the lower population of Queensland in comparison to Victoria and New South Wales is that Queensland has access to less taxation revenue. This is exacerbated by the relatively lower income per head of population in Queensland. For example, the household income per head in Queensland is $5,1 13, in New South Wales it is $5,638 and in Victoria it is $5,757. Not only has Queensland a smaller population but also it has a larger area than the two standard States. It is the second largest State in the Commonwealth. The area of Queensland is 1.7 million square kilometres, whereas Victoria is only 0.2 million square kilometres. The area of New South Wales is 0.8 million square kilometres. When all the other factors are equal it is easier to provide services for a smaller population, but when that population is distributed over a large area the cost of providing those services becomes greater. 
Additionally, it is well to recognise that Queensland is a highly decentralised State. There are major centres of population extending from Brisbane to Cairns. There are centres such as the cities of Gympie, Maryborough, Bundaberg, Gladstone, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville. It is also worthwhile noting that there are some reasonable centres of population north of Cairns. The vast distances in Queensland are a function of the State's large area. If one travels by air from Brisbane to the northern city of Cairns it is a distance of 1,435 kilometres. That is a long distance when compared to the distances in the standard States of New South Wales and Victoria. One can go from Brisbane to another major city in Queensland and travel further than the Brisbane to Cairns distance I have mentioned. The distance between Brisbane and Mount Isa by air is 1,580 kilometres. Recently I travelled from Brisbane to Boigu Island, which is close to the northern border. The air distance for this journey is 2,3 1 5 kilometres. It is well worth noting that that distance is far in excess of the distance from Brisbane to Melbourne by air. 
The fact that such vast distances separate the major centres of population in Queensland puts that State at a disadvantage in providing services equivalent to those provided in the standard States. When the Commonwealth Grants Commission examines the case made by a claimant State it directs its attention to what are termed revenue needs and expenditure needs. Part of the 46th report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission referred to these two types of needs. In part, paragraph 1 .9 states:  the Commission has compared the fiscal capacity of Queensland with that of New South Wales and Victoria, which are referred to as the standard States, talcing into account differences in revenue- raising capacity and differences in the cost of providing comparable services. Separate calculations are thus made for what the Commission refers to as revenue needs and expenditure needs respectively. 
In determining these revenue and expenditure needs, the Commonwealth Grants Commission conducts hearings which are able to elicit information about relevant disabilities which confront those who administer that State. Naturally, the Commission also uses statistical data available to it. In determining these needs the Grants Commission compares the claimant State with the two standard States. On 30 September 1971 Queensland applied for a special grant for the year 1971-72 and it has been a claimant State ever since. It is now the only claimant State to the Grants Commission. It is relevant to mention the other non-standard States and to indicate when they ceased to be claimant States. South Australia ceased to be a claimant State on 1 July 1975. This was the result of an agreement between the Commonwealth and South Australian governments in relation to the transfer of the non-metropolitan South Australian railway system. Tasmania made but later withdrew applications for special grants for 1974-75, 1975-76 and 1977-78. In reality Tasmania ceased to be a claimant State in 1974. Tasmania's withdrawal as a claimant State was the result of other additional finances being made available to it. The only other non-standard State I have not mentioned is Western Australia. It was last a claimant State in 1968-69. 
Earlier I mentioned that the Grants Commission determines revenue and expenditure needs for a claimant State. What the Grants Commission assessed to be the revenue needs for Queensland for 1977-78 is shown in its fortysixth report. Queensland revenue needs were grouped under three main headings: Taxation, land revenue and mining revenue. Under the heading of 'taxation' the Grants Commission assessed the revenue need for Queensland as being $94. 266m. I refer those honourable senators who are interested in how this figure was determined to chapter 4 of the forty-sixth report. With land revenue there was an assessed need of $20.68m. When mining revenue was considered, however, there was a significant difference. The Grants Commission considered that in this case there was a negative need. In other words, Queensland had an above standard revenue capacity for mining. Its capacity to raise finance in this area was higher than that of the standard States of New South Wales and Victoria. For mining revenue the negative need was $47.8 12m. 
The expenditure needs for Queensland were grouped under a number of headings. These were: Social services, business undertakings and a group of miscellaneous expenditure items. The assessed expenditure needs were all positive; that is, Queensland was at a disadvantage in all four cases in relation to the two standard States. Pages 90 and 9 1 of the forty-sixth report outline how the Commission arrived at a sum of $ 12.4m which is the recommended grant. This sum is the amount which the Bill under consideration authorises to be paid to Queensland. Although I am pleased to see a sum of $ 12.4m being made available to the State which I represent, I am disturbed at one aspect of this funding. Indeed, I shall show how the Queensland Government has behaved in an unbelievably immoral fashion in relation to the funds which it has received over recent years by way of various Queensland Grant (Special Assistance) Acts. Perhaps one should be more strong and more to the point. If one were, the more precise comment would be that the Queensland Government is guilty of grand larceny. 
In making its assessment of expenditure needs for business undertakings the Commonwealth Grants Commission takes into account metropolitan transport. The metropolitan transport undertaking in Brisbane is not a State Government undertaking. It is a service provided by the Brisbane City Council. It is worth noting that this service is a significant one. It carries about 200,000 passengers each normal working day. Over a whole year approximately 50 million passengers use the Brisbane City Council bus service. The service extends over 619 kilometres and travels about 20 million kilometres a year. The Brisbane City Council transport department has 550 buses, 830 drivers and a total staff of 1,436. The bus service operated by the Brisbane City Council carries one and a half times the number of passengers carried by the suburban railway system, including rail passengers to and from the nearby city of Ipswich. The service, therefore, is a significant part of Brisbane's public transport system. 
Late in 1975, at the request of the then Treasurer of Queensland,  Sir Gordon  Chalk, the Brisbane City Council made a submission to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. This submission requested that the Commission take into account the cost of the Council 's transport undertaking in its determination of the State's grants allocation. The Commission agreed with the view that it would be consistent with its principles to take account of the costs incurred by the Brisbane City Council in assessing Queensland's needs. On page 74 of the Commonwealth Grants Commission's forty-third report the Commission states: 
Such an approach would more adequately show the financial consequences of a notional application in Queensland of the metropolitan transport policies of the standard States: 
As a result the Commonwealth Grants Commission increased Queensland's grant by $7.085m on account of the 1974-75 deficit of the Council 's transport undertaking. I am informed that at the time he made his initial request for Council assistance in providing a submission to the Grants Commission,  Sir Gordon  Chalk undertook that if the State was successful in extending its claim into this new field it would be in a much better position to assist the Council with its urban transport losses. Perhaps unfortunately for the Council,  Sir Gordon  Chalk retired in August 1976. 
Nevertheless, in late 1 976, when advice of the Grants Commission's determination was received, the Council looked expectantly to the State for the promised assistance. No assistance was forthcoming and the incoming Treasurer,  Mr Knox-  now  Sir William  Knox- refused to acknowledge that these considerations by the Grants Commission had in any way increased Queensland's grant. Instead the State Government pocketed the whole $7.085m. In mid- 1977 the Brisbane City Council became exasperated with the Treasurer's repudiation of its claims and thus sought from Federal parliamentary sources some answers in relation to the Grants Commission's funding. Answers were supplied by the then Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator Withers.  The questions and answers established beyond doubt the validity of the Council 's claim and the legitimacy of its expectations with regard to the $7.085m. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a copy of  Senator Withers'  letter to the Rt  Hon.  Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Alderman Sleeman, and the questions and  answers in relation to the Commonwealth Grants Commission funding. 
 Leave granted. 77te-  document read as follows- 
Minister for Administrative Services 12 July 1977 
My dear Lord Mayor, 
I refer to a recent telex message that you sent to the Acting Minister for Transport,  Mr Macphee,  concerning the allocation of funds related to the Brisbane City Council's public transport undertaking.  Mr Macphee  has asked me to reply to you directly. 
I am pleased to provide the information as set out in the attached papers. 
I am sending copies of this letter and the attached papers to the Minister for Transport. 
Yours sincerely, R. G. WITHERS 
The Rt Hon. Alderman F. N. Sleeman, Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Lord Mayor's Office, Brisbane, Qld 4000 
Q.l Did the Grants Commission take account of the loss incurred by the Brisbane City Council's Street Public Transport Undertaking in assessing Queensland's expenditure needs? 
A.1 Yes. 
Q.2 Was this the first occasion on which the Grants Commission has taken account of the loss incurred by the Brisbane City Council's Street Public Transport Undertaking in assessing Queensland 's Expenditure needs? 
A.2 Yes. Queensland first applied for a special grant for the year 1971-72. Prior to 1974-75, however, the Commission did not have access to data which would have allowed it to take losses incurred by the Brisbane City Council 's Transport Undertaking into account in assessing Queensland's needs for Metropolitan Transport. 
Q.3(a) Was the assessed special grant for Queensland 1974-75 increased over what it would otherwise have been because the Brisbane City Council's Street Public Transport Undertaking deficit in that year, modified for the relevant policy differences, was taken into account? 
A.3(a)Yes. 
Q.3(b) Was the amount of Queensland's assessed needs met from other Commonwealth Grants for 1974-75 increased over what it would otherwise have been because the Brisbane City Council's Street Public Transport Undertaking deficit in that year, modified for the policy differences, was taken into account? 
A.3(b) No. The amount of Queensland's assessed needs met from other Commonwealth Grants was SI 13.6m in respect of the year 1974-75. This amount was not affected by the Commission's treatment of the losses incurred by the Brisbane City Council 's Transport Undertaking. 
Q.4(a) By what amount was Queensland's assessed special grant for 1974-75 increased on account of the Brisbane City Council's Street Public Transport Undertaking modified deficit, being taken into account? 
A.4(a) $7,085,000. The special grant paid to Queensland for the year 1974-75 was $24m. The amount of this special grant would have been $16,915,000 had the losses on the Brisbane City Council 's Transport Undertaking for that year not been taken into account. It should be noted, however. that the Commission still assessed negative needs of $7,596,000 in respect of Queensland's Metropolitan Road Transport for the year 1974-75. 
Q.4(b) By what amount was Queensland's assessed needs met from other Commonwealth Grants for 1974-75, increased on account of the Brisbane City Council's Street Public Transport Undertaking modified deficit, being taken into account? 
A.4(b) See answer to Question 3(b). 
-I thank the Senate. I invite scrutiny of that letter together with the questions and the answers to those questions. In particular I wish to quote from question and answer 4 (a). Question 4 (a) says: 
By what amount was Queensland's assessed special grant for 1974-75 increased on account of the Brisbane City Council's Street Public Transport Undertaking modified deficit being taken into account? 
The answer to question 4(a) was, in part: 
$7,085,000. 
In each of the years subsequent to 1 975 the Commonwealth Grants Commission has taken into account Brisbane City Council 's transport undertaking. On each occasion significant sums have been included in the grant to the State due to this bus service. As supporting evidence of my assertion I refer honourable senators to the answer by the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  in reply to a question in the House of Representatives asked by the honourable member for Griffith,  Mr Humphreys.  The answer appears in the House of Representatives  Hansard  for 19 May 1979 at page 2047. In part the answer refers to losses made by the Brisbane City Council transport department. It says: 
If the Commission had not taken these losses into account the special grants recommended for payment would have been reduced as follows: 1974-75, $24m to $16.915m; 1975-76, $35.8m to $29. 1 78m; and 1 976-77, $23.7m to $ 1 4.048m. 
In other words, in each of the years mentioned in the answer to the question raised by the honourable member for Griffith,  Mr Humphreys,  Queensland would have received a lower grant if the losses of the Brisbane City Council transport undertaking had not been taken into account. A little funding has come to the Brisbane City Council transport service from the State Government since 1975-76. In 1975-76 and the next year some funds were made available to assist in providing fare concessions for students. In 1977-78 a State Government scheme was introduced whereby a subsidy amounting to 50 per cent of fare collections was paid to the Council. Nevertheless, the subsidy fell far below the funds which the State Government received from the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
I have outlined in tabular Form the amounts which the Queensland Government has received by way of Commonwealth Grants Commission grants due to the inclusion of metropolitan transport in the assessment of Queensland's financial needs. Also listed in the table are amounts which have been paid by the Queensland Government to the Brisbane City 
Council.  Mr Deputy President,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the table showing those amounts. It is based on Commonwealth Grants Commission reports and  Mr Nixon's  answer, to which I referred a few moments ago. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="083232197911225_56_4.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Senate. The table reveals that in 1974-75 the Queensland Government received $7.085m because of the inclusion of metropolitan transport in the assessment of Queensland's needs. In that year, nothing was passed on to the Brisbane City Council. In 1975-76 and 1976-77 amounts of $6.622m and $9.652m respectively were paid to the Queensland Government. In those two years $900,000 and $lm respectively were passed to the Brisbane City Council for fare subsidies for students. Finally, in 1 977-78, the year discussed in the 46th report which is the basis of the Bill before us this afternoon, $12. 274m was paid to the State Government because of metropolitan transport in Brisbane, but only $4.886m was passed on to the Brisbane City Council. If one looks at the table one sees that between 1974-75 and 1977-78 Commonwealth funds made available to the State Government because of the Brisbane City Council's metropolitan transport undert .ing totalled $35. 633m. In the same period, the State Government funded the Brisbane City Council for its transport undertaking to the tune of $6. 786m. About $28m stayed in the coffers of the Queensland Government. 
It is really an incredible situation. What it virtually means is that the Commonwealth Grants Commission has recommended that funds be paid to the Queensland Government for metropolitan transport, but that those funds have not been passed on to the operators of that metropolitan transport, namely, the Brisbane City Council. I am not sure whether it would be within the province of the Grants Commission to recommend that a certain sum be paid to the Brisbane City Council for the metropolitan transport operations. Whether it is or is not, one would not expect that it would be necessary for it to do so. Any government with a speck of decency would forthwith pay to another authority those funds which had normally been destined for that authority. Whilst there is no legal basis under the legislation we are now debating for certain funds to be passed on to the Brisbane City Council, there certainly is a moral obligation on the Queensland Government to do so. If it were not for the Brisbane City Council's transport losses being taken into account, instead of Queensland having an assessed special grant of $ 15.4m for 1977-78 it would have had a recommended grant of only $3. lm. 
How the Queensland Government will chuckle when this legislation is passed and it pockets the $ 1 2.3m which morally belongs to the ratepayers of Brisbane. How it must chuckle when it muses on how in the last four years it has received $35.633m because of the Brisbane City Council's bus operations, but it has passed on only $6.786m to the bus operator. A cool $28m socked away because of a clear disregard of any moral obligation cannot, despite the Queensland Premier's background, be regarded as peanuts. It is necessary that this Senate show its opposition to the Commonwealth's funds being misapplied in the way that the State of Queensland is apparently intent on doing. I could not oppose the motion moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  because I am anxious to see the recommended funds go to the State which I represent. However, a strong condemnation by the Senate of the withholding of funds rightfully belonging to the Brisbane City Council- or, to put it another way, to the citizens of Brisbane- is absolutely necessary. It is for that reason that I commend my amendment to the Senate. 
Tonight I intend to use the motion for the first reading of these Bills to offer some remarks about the political activities in the State which I represent. I do so because of the consequences those activities might have on federal politics. It is well known that there is conflict between the Liberal Party of Australia and the National Party in Queensland. That conflict has manifested itself in other parts of Australia as well. But tonight I intend to confine my remarks to some of the consequences of that conflict in Queensland. 
In the Queensland Parliament the Liberal Party, since it formed a coalition with the then Country Party, has always been the minor party in that coalition. From time to time the frustrations which the Liberal Party suffers as the minor party, especially with a Premier such as  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  become outwardly evident. With the assumption that it is more comfortable to be a junior party in government than it would be to be in opposition, the Liberals are quick to suppress their frustration and continue as a subordinate group. Nevertheless, the Liberals' frustration has reached such a level that they have declared that they will field a separate Senate team at the next Senate election. 
For years the Liberal Party and the National Party have presented a joint Senate team to the people of Queensland, but now the Liberals have decided to go it alone. The National Party has become extremely annoyed and would dearly love to be relieved of the terror of fielding a separate Senate team. I do not claim to be a modern day Nostradamus, but five years ago I hinted that this would happen. After the 1974 Senate election I wrote: 
Although the Liberal-National Senate team triumphed in Queensland, the two parties will be faced with an interesting situation at the next Senate election if that election is for five senators. This will occur because there will be one Liberal retiring  (Senator Martin)  and two from the National Party (Senators Lawrie and Sheil). Will the Liberal Party be willing to participate in a team where there is only one candidate from its party, but two from the National Party? The developments will be interesting. 
Because of the 1975 double dissolution, the next Senate election after 1974 was not for five senators. But similar circumstances have arisen. At the last Senate election two Liberal senators retired and the joint team consisted of two Liberals and one National Party member. At the next Senate election, however, one Liberal and two Nationals will retire. The Liberals certainly have nothing to lose in running a separate Senate team. Under the system of voting for the Senate they must have at least one senator returned with the possibility of having a second member of their team elected. The Nationals' prospects, however, are grim. Again, with a separate team, they can expect to have their team leader elected. The second person in that team holds, at best, a precarious position. The possibility of the National Party losing one place in the Senate therefore looms large. With its numbers in this place dwindling, a loss of one member under these circumstances would be a severe blow. 
The Liberal Party has chosen a team of three for the next Senate election. It is headed by  Senator Neville  Bonner; the second team member is  Mrs Yvonne  McComb and the third member is Alderman Franz Born. The National Party therefore reluctantly called nominations for a separate Senate team. At first it was suggested that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  might be a candidate. Eventually he said that he would not be a candidate, but there was no real doubt that he had considered the possibility. For example, in the  Australian  of 28 September of this year he was quoted as saying: 
When people read in  The Weekend Australian  that I was thinking of standing for the Senate the phone didn't stop ringing from people asking me not to leave Queensland. 
But I explained that we had the problem of the separate Senate ticket and that this was perhaps the only way out. 
One could, I suppose, ask whether the people who kept ringing and asking him not to leave Queensland were, in fact, Queenslanders or whether they were people from outside Queensland. But he was quoted in the article as giving an indication that he had distinctly looked at the possibility of standing for the Senate for the National Party. I must admit that on a personal basis I was a little disappointed when he said that he would not stand. I do have a few scores to settle with him. I would be able to achieve that more easily if he became a member of this place. It could still be that I shall not be disappointed. But I shall recount in a few minutes why I say that. In the same edition of the  Australian  that I have just mentioned it was announced that  Mrs Bjelke-Petersen  was interested in nominating for the Senate.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  was quoted as saying: 
. last Tuesday night Flo and I were invited to a big function in Sydney at the Royal Motor Yacht Club where there were many top Sydney Liberals and people kept saying to me: ' By gee that wife of yours is a fantastic mixture '. 
That's when I thought: 'Here is a way around our problem- Flo could stand instead of me.' We work together very closely, 100 percent, and I would be there indirectly. 
That edition of the  Australian  is worth reading for some of the quotes from  Mr and Mrs BjelkePetersen.  I just mention that  Mrs Bjelke-Petersen  in the same article was quoted as saying: 
Recent events make you wonder if people are trying to get into the Senate for their own personal gain. 
I am not quite sure what she really meant by that. But after all the fun of tea, scones and peanut butter subsided, it became evident that there were troubles within the National Party. Where would  Mrs Bjelke-Petersen  be on a National Party Senate team? Was she to be third on the ticket behind  Senator Maunsell  and  Senator Sheil  who are the two retiring National Party senators, or was she to opt for the No. 2 position or even the No. 1 position and thus dump one or both of the sitting senators? It was reported on 30 October of this year in the  Courier-Mail  that  Senator Sheil  would stand down if  Mrs BjelkePetersen  were selected ahead of him. This may be a correct report but I have some doubts. Nevertheless, I have not heard that  Senator Maunsell  would be happy to stand down. Indeed, the  Courier-Mail  of 4 October quotes  Senator Maunsell  as saying that there was little point in putting Flo at the top. 
On 4 October it was suggested in the  Australian  that  Senator Sheil  would soon retire.  Mrs Bjelke-Petersen  could fill this vacancy and be in the Senate by Christmas. That strategy may have been taken seriously in early October but it certainly is not being taken now. On 12 October the  Australian  reported that  Mrs Bjelke-Petersen  had submitted her nomination together with a $50 deposit. On the same day the editorial in the  Courier-Mail  articulated the disquiet which was beginning to surround  Mrs Bjelke-Petersen  's nomination. The editorial was headed 'A rose or a thorn?' and read as follows: 
The National Party will be starting to wonder whether the idea of  Mrs Bjelke-Petersen  nominating for its Senate team was such a good one after all. 
Now that  Mrs Bjelke-Petersen  is a nominee there is likely to be an intra-party feud over her place on the ticket. As the wife of the Premier, the National Party cannot reject her entirely. 
At first it was believed that the idea of running the Premier's wife was merely to attract votes to the National Party team by capitalising on the Bjelke-Petersen name. 
This purpose will have been served if she became the third candidate on theticket. There she would have no hope of winning but could have drawn votes to the team. 
The purpose now seems to be changing. Apparently she is a serious contender for first place, where she certainly would be elected, or second place, where she would have some chance. She says that her place on the ticket is up to the party. 
The Premier's enthusiasm for his wife's candidature ('all the boys in Parliament support Florence, and are openly saying they want her in the Senate') means that she can count on his very great influence. 
Nomination in first or second place on the ticket would mean displacing one of the two sitting Senators whose terms will expire- Senators Maunsell and Sheil. 
Whilst  Senator Sheil  might be no great political loss- the Prime Minister did not think so as far as Cabinet was concerned-  Senator Maunsell  has been a good senator. 
The editorial in the  Courier-Mail  continues in the same vein and refers to the disquiet which was arising because of  Mrs Bjelke-Petersen  's nomination. By 1 9 October, the day before a decision was to be made on the order of the Senate team, it was clear that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  was intent on having his wife head the National Party team. The  Courier-Mail  on that date reported: 
If the parties proceed separately, the Premier (  Mr BjelkePetersen)  is anxious that his wife head the National Party ticket. 
The Premier has been lobbying intensely on his wife 's behalf and according to National Party politicians 'calling up many old friendships. ' 
 Joh is working hell out of his telephone, ' a senior Government Member said. 
On 20 October the Premier of Queensland suffered a huge rebuff. The  Sunday Mail  of 2 1 October reported that rebuff. It is worthwhile quoting part of that article. It stated: 
The party 's State council- 
That is the National Party's State council- meeting in Brisbane, voted overwhelmingly to defer a decision on the question of whether  Mrs Bjelke-Petersen  should head the party's Senateticket at the expense of Senators Maunsell and Sheil. 
A stormy 2½-hour meeting voted by 1 16 to 57 to put the decision on Senate candidates off until December 1 4. 
The outcome displayed the overwhelming strength of the party's  president (Sir Robert Sparkes). 
It was a victory for the National Parry organisation, scarred by recent by-election set-backs at Redcliffe, Gympie, and Sherwood last November 25. 
And it underscored an overwhelming concern among National Party members and supporters that  Mr BjelkePetersen  is heading towards the end of his electoral usefulness. 
The defeat of the Premier was underlined by the fact that he told waiting reporters when entering the meeting with his wife that he was 'very, very, confident. ' 

 Mrs Bjelke-Petersen was reported to have given her husband a nervous smile, fumbled with her string of pearls and said: 'I could have been home working on the farm '. Nevertheless, she is still in the field and waiting for the party's decision on 14 December. All that I have related so far is history. It was necessary for me to relate that background prior to suggesting to the Senate the motives of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  in this exercise. I am not sure whether  Mrs BjelkePetersen  is party to  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  's plans. But I am led to believe that the Premier of Queensland desperately wants his wife to head the National Party Senate team so that he can eventually gain entry to this Senate. If  Mrs Bjelke-Petersen  headed the National Party team she would undoubtedly be elected. The National Party would be able to muster the required 16.6 per cent of the total vote. My information, however, is that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  would coax his wife to resign shortly after she takes her place and then he would fill the casual vacancy himself. This is the reason for his burning desire to place his wife at the head of the ticket. It is not so much to have his wife elected but to enter the Senate himself by way of filling a casual vacancy created by her resignation. 
No doubt National Party officials, like  Sir Robert  Sparkes, are alert to his ploy and will be doing their best to put  Mrs Bjelke-Petersen  at No. 2 or No. 3 on the team. They have no wish to see  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  being given a dream run to the Senate.  Sir Robert  Sparkes and his colleagues know that to stop  Mrs Bjelke-Petersen  from taking the No. 1 position will be no pushover. There are some people who want to see  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  out of the State Parliament. I regret that I put that wrongly. There are hundreds of thousands of people who want him out. What I mean is that there are some of his National Party colleagues who want him to go. Once he does, the premiership will be up for grabs. One such person who wants him to go is  Mr Russell  Hinze. Only last Saturday he was reported to be fostering  Mrs Bjelke-Petersen  's candidature. The  Courier-Mail of  17 November 1 979 reported: 
A State Cabinet Minister said in Kingaroy yesterday that  Mrs Bjelke-Petersen  would top the Senate ticket if she became a candidate. 
The Local Government Minister  (Mr Russ Hinze)  paused during the official opening of the new Kingaroy Shire administrative chambers when the Premier's wire arrived and said: Here's  Senator Flo'. 
Ill walk to Burke and back if she doesn't top the poll.' . . . 
Why does  Mr Hinze  want  Mrs Bjelke-Petersen  to top the National Party Senate team? He has made no secret of the fact that he would like to be Premier of Queensland. He knows that the best way of easing out the present incumbent is to get him to fill a casual vacancy in the Senate. An article headed 'Hinze hopes to be Premier' in the  Canberra Times  last year reported: 
The Queensland Minister for Local Government and Main Roads,  Mr Hinze,  said yesterday that he expected to be the . . . Premier of Queensland in three years. 
He said he expected that once becoming Premier, he would remain in the job for five years. 

 Mr Hinze, 59, said that even then he would be a younger Premier than  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  who is 67. 
The Party would 'need an experienced bloke' to carry on with good coalition government. 
Speaking in the Western Queensland township of Springsure,  Mr Hinze  said he did not want to appear to be hurrying the best Premier in Australia on his way', but when  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  'chooses to give it away I will throw my hat into the ring'. 
Of course,  Mr Hinze  is not the only aspirant to the Premiership of Queensland. All of those people who see themselves with something of a chance will be doing all they can to have  Mrs Bjelke-Petersen  elected to this chamber. If they succeed it will not be long before the Premier of Queensland takes her place. I doubt that the current Premier and the Hinze push will succeed, but their opponents cannot afford to take them lightly. If  Sir Robert  Sparkes does not carry the day on 14 December, we can eventually expect to see  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  in this chamber.  ( Quorum formed.) 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 8 March 1 979: 
What fuel tax is paid in Australia by: 
a) Ansett Airlines of Australia; 
b ) Trans-Australia Airlines; and 
Qantas Airways Limited. 
-The Homes Savings Grant Amendment Bill 1 979 gives us one of the rare opportunities to discuss housing in the Senate. We know that the Government normally brings before the Senate each year legislation to allocate funds from the Commonwealth to the States for public housing. Under the Government's new formula this matter is not now brought before Parliament for debate. Because these matters are interrelated, we may be able to discuss in the debate on this Bill, which seeks to amend the Home Savings Grant Scheme, the inadequacies of housing in this country, I move the following amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'The Bill be withdrawn and redrafted because of the failure of the Homes Savings Grant Scheme to assist new home purchasers bridge the deposit gap in the context of rising housing prices, especially in the metropolitan areas of Sydney, Melbourne, Perth and Darwin where the Scheme is virtually unworkable'. 
The Home Savings Grant Scheme was introduced as a means of helping young people get their feet on the first rung of the ladder of" home ownership. It was introduced by  Sir Robert  Menzies prior to the 1963 election. Of course conservative governments have updated the scheme from time to time. 
The aim of the scheme is not opposed in principle by the Labor Party, and I stress that point. We are concerned, however, that the scheme is not achieving its aim. The Bill before the Senate which seeks to place a new ceiling on the value of homes that qualify for a grant fails to acknowledge the real problems facing home buyers who wish to apply for the home savings grant, especially those in the capital cities of Sydney, Melbourne, Darwin and Perth. But I do not limit my comments just to those cities. I will give figures from the Real Estate Institute of Australia on medium priced housing. My figures will reveal a great disparity in the cost of housing from city to city. The two cities with the worst housing situation are, of course, Sydney and Melbourne, and we know that the great majority of Australians reside in those two cities. The Home Savings Grant Scheme, as it currently operates and as it will operate under the provisions of this Bill, does help some people. But more and more, the price of housing and land in the capital cities, where the majority of the people live, is rising to such a high level and at such a fast rate that the scheme is becoming almost irrelevant. 
Let me make the Australian Labor Party's position clear to those members on the Government side who would ask what the Labor Party proposes to do to improve access to home ownership. We will not abolish the Home Savings Grant Scheme after we gain victory in the 1 980 election. The scheme will not be abolished by us. Possibly the majority of people will contract out of it. We intend to put forward an alternative superior home ownership assistance program to assist low and middle income earners to buy their own homes. Details of that program will be announced at an appropriate time by the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hayden.  The Home Savings Grant Scheme will remain an option for those who are presently saving under it. If they can benefit from it and if they want to proceed with it, that is their option. We will permit them to do so, but they will be able to transfer to our new home ownership assistance program which will be much superior. I believe that most people will opt out of the existing scheme and shift to Labor's new program. 
The Home Savings Grant Scheme is just not good enough to meet the problems confronting the people who want to acquire their first home today, particularly young people. I will demonstrate the inadequacies of the Home Savings Grant Scheme in a moment. Firstly, I refer to Labor's program of helping young people to get their feet on the first rung of the housing ladder in the context of a broad response to the problems facing people on low incomes in terms of basic housing security. These problems are becoming worse every day. They are problems which this Government turns its back on. The Government does not even want to try to control the serious situation that is before us. The housing problem in this country, next to unemployment, is the most serious social problem in this nation. For thousands of people the problem has now reached crisis proportions. There are 30,000 homeless people living in both Sydney and Melbourne. Many thousands of people in other cities and country towns cannot find homes. Some 250,000 people are permanently living in caravan parks. There are 75,000 families on the long waiting list for public housing. Thousands of tenants under private rental housing agreements face eviction because they cannot afford to pay their rent or because the houses have been sold from underneath them. 
For all these thousands of people, whose housing security is threatened, there is an urgent need for an expansion of the provision of public rental housing in this country to provide secure accommodation. For those people that will be a major priority in Labor's public housing policy. Some of the need can be met by the construction of new government dwellings in selected areas by the acquisition and rehabilitation of existing private rental stocks for the use of public housing or from the expansion of emergency accommodation services which at present are able to cater for less than half of those who are making requests. To tackle the problems facing people in need of housing, we need to develop programs on several fronts at once. There is no single program that can solve the many housing problems that this Government has allowed to develop over the years. We need a range of constructive programs for the planning of our cities and country centres. 
A home ownership assistance program is one of the ways for a government to assist people in their housing needs. But it is not the only way. The Federal Government has relied too heavily on the Home Savings Grant Scheme as the only response. Of course, as we know, that response has been inadequate. The Government has neglected the need for emergency accommodation. It has reduced the provision of public housing. The housing problems that are now so obvious as a result of the narrowness of the Government's housing policy and the tightness of its spending priorities are all too evident. One of the reasons we do not discuss each year as a national priority the transfer of funds from Federal Revenue to State for public housing, as has been done since 1947, is that there has been such a substantial reduction in those funds. In 1974- 75, the Labor Government made 3.9 per cent of all government expenditure available to the States for public housing. That amount has been cut to 1.1 per cent of government expenditure this year. That is why the Government does not want to debate the matter. It wants to sweep the matter under the carpet and to keep it hidden. 
Let us examine building programs. In 1975- 76, the first half year of this Government's administration, loans averaging $22,400 a dwelling were approved by banks and building societies in Australia for 134,000 new dwellings. 
However, between 1975-76 and 1977-78, the number of new private dwellings fell by 12 per cent while the average value of loans approved rose by 30 per cent. In 1 978-79, loans amounting to $3.5 billion were approved for 118,000 new dwellings in Australia. The average loan was $29,000 a dwelling. The Government tries to suggest that the rise in housing loan approvals from a trough of 1 1 1,000 last year to 1 18,000 this year is a great upward surge. But in 1 975-76, the first year that it came into power, 134,000 new dwellings were approved. Again, the figure for last year was 1 1 8,000. If the Government wants the construction of new dwellings to reach its former level, it is a long way behind. That demonstrates the empty nature of the claims of the Government. 
It is true that, in the last 12 months, there has been an upturn in the construction of new dwellings but we have to remember three things: First, new dwelling commencements last year reached their lowest level for 13 years. The decline in building activities has had a large impact on the capacity of the building industry as the Indicative Planning Council has notedin its last two reports. Between August 1 974 and August this year over 60,000 jobs were lost in the building and construction industry. This was caused in a large part by the reduction in this Government's spending on capital works in health, education and social services. I have already given figures on reduced Government spending on the public housing sector. The industry has also suffered as a result of increasing spending on renovations and repairs to existing housing stock which, in turn, is creating an upward pressure on the price of established housing. The second related point to remember is that the price of housing has risen considerably over the last four years. The apparent upturn in housing construction is now occurring at a price level that is beyond the reach of most single income families. I stress that the real problem facing single income families earning up to 1 35 per cent of average weekly earnings whether they live in Sydney or Melbourne is that they are the victims of an almost impossible system when it comes to acquiring a home. That is a problem that we will have to overcome. This Government is doing nothing at all to overcome the problem. 
The third point is that the Government allocated in the 1979-80 Budget less than onethird of the amount of funds which the Labor Government allocated for housing in 1974-75. The present Government's housing program is a program on the cheap. Not only does it provide a minimal amount of funds to assist home ownership but also does it reduce the size of public housing significantly. In 1974-75, there were just under 20,000 new government dwelling approvals. In 1978-79, there were fewer than 10,000. Some of the State housing commissions are actually selling off more public housing than they are constructing. In Victoria, all of the funds provided under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement were directed to home purchase, to the neglect of public housing. The Government has a very narrow view of the role of public housing. It seems to think that public housing represents a threat to private enterprise in the housing market. But public housing is one of the few ways that the Government can intervene to plan the use of space in cities. Public housing is a means of ensuring some equity in the area of housing. It should not be an area for profitable exploitation by speculators. Public housing is a lever that the Government can use to contain some of the inflationary pressures in the housing market. 
In 1978 there were about 700,000 tenants in Victoria. Only 40,000 rental units were publiclyowned. The expansion of public housing cannot by itself threaten private home ownership. What it can do is to ensure that there is some sanity in the way that governments respond to housing problems. It can take the heat off rising housing prices and therefore make home ownership more accessible to the majority of people, rather than restrict it to a few who can afford the exorbitant prices which exist in this country. Most importantly, public housing can provide the necessary minimum of security for low income earners who are in need of shelter. The decline in public housing is one of the reasons for the escalation of housing prices and rent levels in the major capital cities. 
Rising housing prices will be aggravated by the increases in the cost of home building materials, which rose by 5.4 per cent in the year to September 1978, but by double that- by 1 1.4 per cent- in the year to September 1979. The ability of people to buy homes and keep up their repayments will be further restricted by any rise in interest rates. This Government has no policies for responding to these problems. It wasted over $400,000 on a housing allowance voucher experiment. Its housing policy is dangerously narrow. As a result, the needs of many people for shelter are seriously neglected. All of the Government's efforts in respect of the Home Savings Grant Scheme are inadequate. A problem cannot be solved by attacking it on a single front. It has to be dealt with across the board as a whole. 
According to the Real Estate Institute of Australia, the median price of an established home in September 1 979 was $59,000 in Sydney, $49,100 in Melbourne; $39,400 in Perth; $37,500 in Canberra; $34,100 in Adelaide and $32,600 in Brisbane. In Sydney in June 1978 the median price was $42,700. It is now $59,500, a rise of $16,800 or 40 per cent in 15 months. I do not want to put too much stress on the median price. What we are most concerned about are those persons who are trying to get into home ownership on the bottom rung. Their ability to buy a home is constrained by several factors. These include their income, the price of housing, the lending policies, the interest rates of lending institutions and the location of housing. 
In the metropolitan area of Sydney the price of housing has been rising on average at $1,000 a month, or 10 per cent every three months. In the inner city areas, housing prices have risen even more rapidly. The people about whom we are concerned are being forced out of these areasareas where jobs are available, where their parents may have resided all their lives, and where the community services and cultural facilities are provided- because they cannot afford to buy homes that are being bought by people on higher incomes. In many metropolitan suburbs, particularly those of Sydney, Melbourne, Darwin and Perth, it is impossible to buy a home for less than $40,000. In those areas which are covered by the Home Savings Grant Scheme, the high cost of housing makes the Scheme almost useless. 
The Government argues that about 60 per cent of home purchases in 1978-79 that attracted some grant, which on average was $1,100, were homes priced below $35,000. According to the figures the Government has provided, a sizable majority of home buyers eligible for grants bought homes at about that price, particularly in Tasmania, South Australia and Queensland. In Victoria, 4 1 .2 per cent of homes purchased under the Scheme were below $35,000. In Sydney, 22 per cent of eligible housing purchases were above $40,000. On the whole, 20 per cent of homes purchased under the Scheme in 1 978-79 were valued above $40,000. 1 also point out that pressures are causing prices in Sydney to rise at about $1,000 a month. The value limit on the price of homes eligible under the Home Savings Grants Scheme operates nationally to reduce grant recipients by about 20 per cent. In normal circumstances, the Labor Party would support the application of some type of means test so that the priority funds could be directed to those in need. Normally, the Labor Party would support that concept, but there are unusual circumstances at the moment created by the Government's negative economic and housing policies. 
The people most affected by rising housing prices are those who are renting. The Home Savings Grants Scheme does not begin to address the needs of people who have no security of shelter. The Scheme is not very useful to those people on single, low and middle incomes up to around $15,000 a year who are trying to purchase a home. A single income family on an income below $ 1 5,000 a year is virtually excluded from the Scheme. The people who can make most use of the Scheme are single persons on high incomes and young couples on two incomes. But there is a sizable group of needy people whom the Scheme does not help at all. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  two tables setting out a person's ability to purchase a home in New South Wales. The tables have been prepared on request by the Parliamentary Library Research Service. The first table shows the situation for people obtaining a housing loan from the Commonwealth Savings Bank. The second table shows the situation for people obtaining a loan through a permanent building society. I passed these tables to the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster),  who is at the table, but I am not sure whether they have reached him yet. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="083232197911236_29_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197911236_30_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197911236_30_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197911236_31_5.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: 
What were the new procedures which were introduced to avoid delays in payment of unemployment benefits, mentioned in the Commonwealth Ombudsman's Second Annual Report 1979, page 85. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 9 October 1 979: 
1 ) How many official Post Offices in each State and Territory do not have Commonwealth Savings Bank Agency facilities. 
Is it mandatory for unofficial Post Offices to provide Commonwealth Savings Bank facilities; if not, what are the full details relating to the provision of these facilities. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 23 October 1979: 
What study assistance is currently available to members of the Australian Public Service (as at 23 October 1 979). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 24 October 1 979: 
What were the individual newspapers in which Telecom Australia Advertisements relating to the industrial dispute of June- July 1979 appeared, and what was the cost of the advertisements in each case (see the answer to Senate Question No. 1 738  Hansard,  23 October 1 979, page 1 66 1 ). 
Why was it not considered justified to offer funds to the Australian Telecommunications Employee's Association to advertise its side of the dispute. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 14 November 1979: 
Did the Government direct a  Mr Bonnett  to inquire into pension arrangements for beneficiaries under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948; if so: (a) when; (b) what was the nature of the inquiry; (c) when did the Government receive  Mr Bonnett  's report; (d) what were the main findings of his report; (e) did his report recommend that pre- 1972 members were disadvantaged and that the commutation and pension of those members should be made comparable to those of members who retired after 1 October 1972; and  (0  what action is proposed to adopt  Mr Bonnett  's recommendations, and when is any such action to be taken. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 13 November 1979: 
1 ) What information is available concerning a meeting between United State and Australian authorities in relation to the claim for damages by Dillingham-Murphyore; in particular, at what level are the negotiations taking place. 
What action is proposed, as a result of the negotiations, in relation to export restrictions on minerals mined on Fraser Island. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 19 December 1979: 
Have instructions been issued concerning cases such as the one in relation to the Adult Secondary Education Assistance Scheme outlined in the Commonwealth Ombudsman's Second Annual Report 1979, page 83; if so what are the details of the instructions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: 
Has the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs advised its regional offices concerning prompt replies to correspondence as undertaken by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations in relation to National Employment and Training System (NEAT) benefits (see the Commonwealth Ombudsman's Second Annual Report 1979, page 83 ); if so, is the Department satisfied that there is no delay in replying to correspondence in relation to NEAT benefits. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: 
1 ) Has the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs found it necessary to modify procedures in relation to the handling of applications for duplicate cheques, as it was indicated that the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations would do, in the Commonwealth Ombudsman's Second Annual Report 1979, page 84. 
Is the Minister satisfied that applications for duplicate cheques for National Employment and Training System beneficiaries are now promptly dealt with. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 19 November 1979. 
Has the Ombudsman 's suggestion, referred to in the Commonwealth Ombudsman's Second Annual Report 1979, page 83, in relation to the availability of public information on student assistance schemes, been accepted and implemented; if so, what additional information was needed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 20 November 1978: 
1 ) Whether fresh instructions have been issued to overseas posts in relation to lost or stolen passports as outlined in the Commonwealth Ombudsman's Second Annual Report 1979, page 84. 
If so, what was the nature of the instructions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 20 November 1 979: 
Is the new monitoring procedure, outlined in the Commonwealth Ombudsman's Second Annual Report 1979, page 84; still under trial; if so, when will the trial end, if not, has the monitoring procedure been permanently adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1979: 
How many, and what type of, aircraft are operated by: (a) the Royal Australian Navy; (b) the Australian Army; and (c) the Royal Australian Air Force. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 November 1979: 
Is an official card now provided to Taxation investigation officers, as outlined in the Commonwealth Ombudsman's 
Second Annual Report 1979, page 88; if so, what are the details on the card. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: 
What criteria were used to select the newspapers in which the advertisement 'So that the public interest is served ' was placed (see the answer to Senate Question No. 1739, Hansard, 19 November 1979, page 25 16). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 20 November 1978: 
Has a new issue of repayment books containing a more detailed explanation of statutory provisions now been issued (see Commonwealth Ombudsman's Second Annual Report 1979, page 88); if not, when is it expected to be issued. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 22 November 1979: 
How do private schools receiving State Aid specify, and account for, how the funds concerned are used (see part 4 of the answer to Senate Question No. 1832,  Hansard,  19 November 1979,page2518). 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 November 1979: 
Will the Minister table or otherwise make available the text of the legal opinion which suggests that it is not possible for the Director-General of Social Security to authorise the payment of supplementary allowance to a person receiving special benefit. 
