My question, which I address to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, concerns the River Murray and the urgent need to safeguard the quality of water in this major source of water supply for the people of South Australia. Is the Minister aware of the urgency of stopping the pollution of the river which is still originating in Victoria and New South Wales? What initiatitives are being taken by the Australian Government to gain the co-operation of the States involved to find a permanent and satisfactory solution? 
I ask the Minister for Social Security about the changed subsidy arrangements for services provided under the States Grants (Home Care) Act. Will the new arrangements mean any decrease in the Commonwealth's financial commitment or will they in fact be in the context of an increased contribution by the Commonwealth Government, indeed an increase in real terms at that? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it true that, quite apart from the employment aspect of the recent Telecom dispute, another fundamental aspect is causing continuing unease in the community? I refer to the amount of detailed information being made available by Telecom to the public and to its own employees. This detailed information, which I understand has not yet been released, concerns, firstly, the means of safeguarding proper privacy to the public in the public's use of telephones; secondly, the technical reliability of the equipment that is to be installed; and, thirdly, the precise cost of the full installation of the new equipment. Will the Minister require the release of this detailed information so that the public will be reassured of the wisdom of Telecom using the new technology? 

 - Mr President, I congratulate you on your re-election in this chamber to your high office. I will value your proper guidance to me and to all honourable senators and I support you in your high responsibilities. This is my first speech in the Parliament and I understand that I may take some liberty to speak in a general and introductory way about my own political philosophy as a Liberal. I will also go on to speak directly about the industrial and political situation in South Australia, to which I am constrained by the urgency of some present developments. I refer to the Redcliff petrochemical project, the car manufacturing industry and the Riverland grape growers and the brandy industry. 
As I see it, politics is both a science and an art. It is a science in that it demands the truth; it demands solid evidence and sound argument. Politics is also an art. As  Sir Robert  Menzies once put it, 'the art of politics is to convey ideas and, if possible, persuade a majority to agree; to create or encourage a public opinion so soundly based that it endures and is not blown aside by chance winds; to persuade people to take long range views'. Politics is also about authority- the responsible use of authority. I see the authority of parliament as a delegated authority. As a democrat I believe that the parliament's authority is given by the people of Australia. As a Christian I believe that parliament's authority is derived from God and, thus, it is entirely right that we begin our parliamentary sittings each day in prayer asking the Lord's blessing and direction that our work be the glory of God and to the true welfare of the people of Australia. 
As to my own politics, I am a Liberal. Without the spirited support of my fellow Liberals in South Australia I would not be in this Parliament today. What does it mean to be a Liberal? Liberalism is about freedom; Liberalism is about people. The Liberal objective is to establish and maintain a society in which individuals can develop their own personalities in their own way, always subject to the rights of others. Liberalism is based on an understanding of the individual 's qualities and aspirations. It is a philosophy of the heart and mind, seeking more than material fulfilment. I believe in a society which is a free association of its members. I believe in a democracy where government is restricted, accountable to the people and close to the people. 
Liberalism is not a collectivist philosophy, as is centralistic socialism. Liberals look to the individual, not to the State. The Government is not an end in itself but is a means of helping people to achieve their own goals. The Government's role, I believe, is the limited one of creating favourable environments in which people make their own decisions for development, for it is free enterprise with effective competition which is the crucial factor in achieving general economic progress. However, Liberals reject the doctrine of laissez faire which abandons the true responsibilities of Government. A government has the right and the obligation to intervene to ensure effective national development, to conserve the environment, to stimulate competition and to achieve equity. More especially, liberalism recognises the traditional role of government to protect the weak. I refer to the provision of adequate social security benefits to help those who cannot support themselves, the availability of a high level of education to all and the insistence that health services are within the reach of everyone. In these welfare and education services the dignity and freedom of choice of every individual must be ensured. In this regard Alfred Deakin said: 
In this country liberalism has been identified with every broad movement based on 'equality of political rights without reference to creed' and 'equality of legal rights without consideration of wealth' . . . The reconstructive clement in liberalism must in the future come to the fore . . . Liberalism will now inculcate a new teaching with regard to the poorest in the community, that all shall have what is their due, and wealth will be prevented from taking any unfair advantage of the needy. 
The values and commitments of the Liberal philosophy have, I believe, since Deakin 's day come to be accepted and supported by a majority of the Australian people. Australian voters have not been unmindful of what the foundations of a Liberal government are all about. Any Australian can support these principles and, especially in 1975 and 1977, very many Australians did support them. Australians on every income level, in every kind of employment, can identify with Liberal principles.  Dr David  Kemp wrote in his assessment of the 1977 landslide Liberal victory: 
It has now reached the point where it is absurd to talk of the Labor Party as representing the low income and less educated sections of society and the Liberal Party the more well to do and better educated. But myths die hard . . . The alternative view in explaining political partisanship is not a person 's location in the social structure, but his location in the culture. Provided he can make a link between his own values, norms and beliefs, and one of the political parties, he will tend to give his loyalty to that party regardless  of occupation,  income or education. 
As I have observed it, the Liberal Party's grass roots support comes from hardworking, cheerful and enterprising people, both in the cities and in the country, who have in their families and in their work place set themselves goals and worked hard to go on towards reaching them. These people have learned to value constructive work and to value family life, not in a wowserish reaction to the distorted radicals of recent years but by positive search for fulfilment and enrichment of life and by encouragement of those things which are strong and lovely and of good report. If this is a formula for middle class values, then so be it. Let it be recognised that today's middle class comprises more than 60 per cent of our country. If it is a reference to a 'silent majority ' of decent community-spirited Australians, then so be it, and by the ballot box let them determine the government of the day. 
I believe that dynamic and people-oriented liberalism has the best capacity to guide Australians to solutions for our most pressing social problems. One of these problems is unemployment, especially youth unemployment, which continues in the face of innovating technologies. This problem involves a comparison between the importance we place on soundly planned employment transitions compared with the importance we place on efficiency. How can we reassure the public that the new productivity arising from computers will nevertheless be accompanied by new kinds of work, such as that which may be found in the tertiary service industries, and by new employment arrangements such as job-sharing, part-time work, a flexibly earlier retiring age, the moderation of wage expectations and so on? 
The recent Telecom dispute, as much as the hastening rush towards computerisation in the banking and insurance industries, is a salutary instance of what the  Australian  newspaper has been describing so aptly as a pending computer holocaust. That holocaust must not eventuate. I am confident that Liberal approaches to these problems will have every prospect of success. This is because Liberalism is primarily committed to people- to ordinary people, to people as they are, to people as they wish to develop and to be fulfilled. This commitment is greater than the secondary commitment to the sound principles of productivity, efficiency and economic growth. However, I do not presume that there is a simple or ready-made solution to the complexities of new technology. It is a matter of sifting the evidence and applying Liberal principles to the facts that may be found. Our political philosophy is not an ideological set of pigeon holes. Liberalism is not some automatic know-all that, computer-like, spits out a party policy. Hard work is involved and must be involved. 
Finally, on this theme, I note that for one particular group in the community Liberalism has still to gain widespread positive attention, and that is the group of academics in our universities and colleges. I refer to the lecturers in politics departments, the writers of political biography and those who greatly influence opinion in these matters, the political historians. Quite frankly, liberalism in our generation is the least researched and least publicly scrutinised of the political philosophies significantly espoused in our country. All this is so, despite its majority support and enormous influence. On the other hand, there have been endless books written about the Labor movement, about socialism and about all the subcultures of socialism. Indeed, it has become commonplace that academics in Australia are exercising a subjective, selective bias in their teaching and in their research. Too many propagate that which is of inward looking interest to themselves rather than that which is of public interest. There is a failure to focus squarely on the ideas and programs which, since the 1 940s, have had the most weight in shaping the politics of our country. 
The Liberal political philosophy has been the foundation of our Australian government for 25 of the last 28 years. It ought to be thoroughly analysed; it ought, in depth, to be understood. I have emphasised that I came to the Senate as a Liberal. However, I am not so one-eyed as to recognise that not all honourable senators are sitting on this side of the House. I respect the political position of every senator. Every senator on this side, as on the other side, has a right to be here, be they Liberal, Democrat, Independent or Labor, because every senator has gained a sufficient proportion of support from the Australian people: 
I now want to refer briefly to my attitude towards the Senate itself. I do so because, for a minority of Australians, the role of the Senate has become controversial. Under the Australian Constitution the Senate has very important responsibilities as a part of the Commonwealth Parliament. I believe that we must ensure that in all of its roles the Senate will continue to be effective. The Senate is rightly described as a House of review- a check and a balance- both in respect of the legislation of the House of Representatives and as  Senator Hamer  put so very well this afternoon, it provides a check and a balance in respect of the executive government of the day. The Senate is also rightly described as a States House. This was a very prominent part of its original conception. I understand the term States House' to mean not merely some narrow excuse for parochialism but a broadly motivated nationwide concern that each of the States and all of the States should be treated fairly by legislation, by taxation and by every decision of the Parliament. 
A special genius of the Senate's procedure is the standing committee system which I believe should be strengthened. This point of excellence in the Parliament's conduct ought to be more fully portrayed to the public. The soundness of the committees in gathering evidence and the fairness and co-operation of members of parliament from all parties is a powerful base for the findings and recommendations of the committees being given high attention. 
Yes,  Mr President,  I have the highest expectations of the Senate. It is capable of developing a truly national viewpoint and of maintaining a kind of wisdom in having wide perspectives. A senator's electorate is not a narrow constituency. In these lights I find any call to abolish the Senate to be grossly irresponsible. The centralistic socialists who propose this I understand also want to abolish the States and to scurry towards a potential totalitarianism here in Canberra. I reject this utterly. As I said earlier tonight, I believe in a democracy where decisions are made close to the people, where government is restricted and accountable and where there are checks and balances. I am also opposed to any suggestion of abolishing the money powers of the Senate. If this were to happen, the Senate would lack power and credibility and its constitutional roles would be emasculated. What I do favour is that, in the event of a blocking of Supply leading to a deadlock between the Houses, the Parliament, including the Senate, should face the people in a general election. 
To go on from these general statements of my political philosophy, I come now to apply their thrust to some specific developments right now upon us which are, I believe, of the highest importance to my State of South Australia. South Australia is on edge at the moment. The future is uncertain. I find that, despite my natural sense of optimism, I have become increasingly angry that the foundations of our State's prosperity are in danger. My anger arises on two counts. First and foremost, the State Labor Government in South Australia needs to be thrown out of office. Industry is turned off by the high-cost strategy of the socialist program. There are threats too of novel government-induced legislation for worker control of industry and this unreasonable policy is driving new investment even further away. 
The level of unemployment in South Australia rose from 27,000 to 40,000 in the 12 months to the end of June this year and in the coming six months it is heading on for 50,000, an intolerable level. Moreover, prospects for employment recovery lag behind the rest of Australia. The situation of youth unemployment is horrific. At the end of June this year South Australia had the highest unemployment rate of any State for the 15-year to 19-year age group. The rate was 19.3 per cent. This depression stems in the main from a collapse in maufacturing industry, which looks like becoming semi-permanent. Overall the State's share of the national work force is expected to decline. It follows that the rate of population growth, an important determinant in market demand, also will fall below the Australian average. Yes, the State Labor Government must be thrown out of office because its ideologically based policies do not work in practice and they are too expensive anyway. They are driving industry out of the State. 
I am angry also because of the second major menace that we face, that is, the inward looking, big State mentality of too many people in Victoria and New South Wales. I believe that it is not enough that Australia as a whole is seen to prosper. It is vital also to ensure that each part, each region, each State is seen to prosper. For example, let us consider the car manufacturing industry. The Government's decisions may aim to ensure prosperity in Australia as a whole, but they may do so in such a way that General Motors-Holden's Limited, to instance a company, may be encouraged to make centralised economies of scale whereby the company comes to abandon its South Australian operations in favour of the eastern States. At the same time another company- let us take Chrysler Australia Ltd, for instance, which is totally located in Adelaide- may happen to be forced out of the industry altogether, closing down its Australian plant, with devastating consequences for Adelaide. It would be little satisfaction then to see that such a general Australian prosperity based on the big States was in fact achieved at the expense of denuding South Australia in the process. 1 am not yet assured that these fears can be set aside. Indeed, there are decisions before the Government right now which have vital implications for Chryslers' operations in Adelaide. I hope that the weight of the submissions that have been made will lead to a favourable outcome in this matter. 
Another present example of my fears is the absolutely vital proposal for a petrochemical project at Redcliff. It is an economically viable, natural resource development which will lead to the spending of $900m in capital equipment manufacture and will create, in addition to the employment of 4,500 people in the establishment phase, a set of permanent jobs for 1,500 people. There are unavoidable deadlines in this process which imply that the go-ahead decision will be determined this year or never. The people of South Australia await one final barrier, that is, the impending announcement of Australian Loan Council authorisation for South Australia to contract a $ 1 86m loan four infrastructure purposes. This final barrier is to be determined in the context of competition with the big States over loan program applications. If the big States push South Australia aside, I am convinced that it will be because of crude political muscle rather than sound economic good sense. If South Australia 's application receives the green light- I must confess this is widely expected and the decision should be known within the next few weeks- it will be an illustration of our Federal Government having a proper sense of safeguarding our whole Commonwealth. 
My third and final example springs directly from the Budget which is before us and concerns the Budget proposal for an 83 per cent increase in the excise on brandy. In general I support the Howard Budget. It is a Budget of economic responsibility. It is an honest Budget. It reflects the Fraser Government's economic policy, which has been clearly stated and overwhelmingly supported in the last two general elections. On 15 August, in introducing the Budget, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said: 
In framing all our decisions, we have been guided by a desire to fairly share burdens throughout the Australian community. 
In general this is true, as is evidenced principally by the temporary measure to raise income tax rates by 1  lA  per cent for all incomes rather than to concentrate the new tax burden on only one section of the community, as would have been the case if the family allowance had been reduced significantly. Yes, the general strategy of the Budget has been to share the burdens fairly throughout the Australian community. However, this is not true of the proposed 83 per cent increase in excise on Australian produced brandy. This will be a catastrophe, to be borne by ons small sector, the 35,000 people of South Australia's Riverland, and these people are part of my electorate. This is a sectional tax. It is not a fair share. This brandy tax is calculated to bring to government revenue an increase of only $4m, an almost insignificant one six-thousandth part ofthe total revenue. 
What are the facts? The facts are that whereas for wine production, South Australia's share is 60 per cent of the Australian total, for brandy it is 92 per cent. Indeed 85 per cent is from the Riverland alone. The industry has established an econometric model to estimate the effect on clearances- on sales- of excise changes and other industry costs. On the basis of this model, and with confirmation by alternative means of estimation, the Budget decision means a reduction in Australian brandy clearances of 39 per cent in a full year. Accordingly, the industry 's previous 3.9 years' holding of stocks became overnight a stock cover of 6.3 years. In these circumstances there will be no new production of brandy for the next two years. The industry will not take in any grapes at all. No new brandy will be distilled. As a direct consequence, grapegrower earnings will be reduced from $3.6m to nothing, and Riverland-based distilling and bottling operations will be reduced from about $8.4m to nothing. A total of $ 12m in income will be lost by this community this year. Government revenue will, in the process, rise from $30m to $34m. That is the very small rise of $4m that I mentioned earlier. Considering also the losses in income tax revenue from the Riverland community, even this small amount will be whittled away. The effect of the whole exercise on government revenue will be that no significant gain at all will be made and, as already experienced in 1951, and 1973 under a Labor Government, as a result of the taking of similar action, there could even be a net loss to government revenue on account of the brandy excise increase. 
This is a very serious situation. In these circumstances, how can I be silent over such a pending disaster to the people of my own State? How can I be credible as a Liberal and as a senator if, the facts being as they are, I do not voice the strongest protest? I have not yet been reassured by anyone as to how this catastrophe will be avoided, but it must be avoided. There must be a remedy. In the War of Independence for the United States of America, some fundamental principles of democracy were enumerated. One of these principles, which arose from a government-imposed tax on tea- hence the celebrated Boston Tea Party- was: 'No taxation without representation'. This principle is at risk here. The parliamentary representatives of the community involved in the brandy industry were not consulted prior to the tax on that community's industry being decided. Furthermore, there is no South Australian representative in the Cabinet. I have received no reassurance that adequate representations were considered when the decision was made. 
It gives me no pleasure to be critical of one aspect of my own Government's Budget decisions; but criticism of this kind, honestly given, is the very stuff of Parliament's process. How weak and tame we in this chamber would be if, because we so strongly supported and contributed to our Party's policies, we felt obliged to remain silent when a remedy was so dramatically needed. When 90 and 9 are safe it is still right to act for one that is lost. To do otherwise would undermine our parliamentary purposes. Indeed, we would undermine our public credibility as representatives of all of the people we serve. What we must now ensure is that a remedy will soon be found. For my part, I will continue to do all that I can to assist the Government to determine that remedy and to pass it on to the people. 
In conclusion, I return to my introductory theme. I am a Liberal and, as a Liberal, I have an overriding aim before me. That is to serve the people. I am very conscious that it is the people of South Australia who have elected me to the Senate, and I will aim to represent the people in all that I will do as a senator. 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to the arrest this week of  Mr Steve  Biko 's family in South Africa, on the first anniversary of Biko's controversial death in detention in that country. Will the Australian Government continue to deplore the detention of South African citizens without charge or recourse to trial? Will the Australian Government protest to the South African Government and call for the immediate release of the Biko family and others similarly detained? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the brandy industry's recent submission to the Treasurer concerning the drastic impact that the Budget proposal for an 83 per cent increase in excise will have on the livelihood of grape growers and others in the Riverland area of South Australia. Is the Minister aware that the estimate of the direct increase in revenue to the Government on account of the excise is only $4m- this is an increase from $30m last year to $34m this year- and that this small increase may be completely lost in reduced income tax collected in that area? Will the Minister add his own efforts to the Government's direct efforts now being undertaken to find a remedy to this pending serious situation and to pass on that remedy soon to the people of South Australia? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, I present a report on proposals for variations of the plan of layout of the city of Canberra and its environs- the 66th series. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- I have presented this report in the absence through illness today of  Senator Knight,  the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. This report deals with the 66th series of proposals to vary the Canberra city plan. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  referred these 14 proposals to the Committee on 24 July. The Committee conducted a public hearing, at which it was briefed by representatives of the National Capital Development Commission and the Department of the Capital Territory. No objections were lodged in relation to any of the items, but the Committee found it expedient to ask the Department of the Capital 
Territory to seek the opinion of residents in Glasgow Street, Hughes, on variation 8, which involves transferring a small area of land to a private lessee. The Committee recommends implementation of all the proposals contained in the series with the exception of variation 8, as it is considered that more information on that particular matter is necessary. 
The proposals in this series will involve changes to improve further the Barton Highway, including new tourist information facilities and related amenities. Also included is a variation to provide access to tourist facilities, which might include some motel sites off Gold Creek Road to avoid the need for access directly from the Barton Highway. A proposal for the erection of a new bridge across the Murrumbidgee River at Tharwa will ensure that the structure and setting of the historic existing bridge are preserved. There are also proposals involving works within the parliamentary triangle. These relate particularly to access to and parking at the High Court and National Gallery sites and to a general improvement of traffic patterns within the parliamentary area. The National Capital Development Commission will mount a visual display in Senate Committee Room No. 6 on Wednesday, 20 September- tomorrow- so that interested honourable senators and honourable members can examine what is involved in the proposals. 
Honourable senators and honourable members will be aware that the Parliament Act applies to works within the parliamentary area.  Major works  have to be approved by both Houses. The National Capital Development Commission informed the Committee that as the Act is now interpreted there is no necessity for the works in question to be the subject of special resolutions by the Senate and the House of Representatives. The Commission is well aware, however, of its responsibilities under the Act and has undertaken to inform the Committee should there be any developments during construction which might require approval of the Parliament. The responsibility for ensuring compliance with the legislation resides with the National Capital Development Commission and the Minister. I commend the report to the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to youth unemployment, which is the most pressing social problem we face in this country. Is the Minister aware of the unfair competition for jobs which young people now face as a result of wage differentials having been largely removed from national awards, which for many generations had the effect of allowing employers to give on a fair basis less than adult wages for work which was of less than full adult work value? Will the Government give consideration to calling for an appropriate reintroduction of wage differentials in national awards so as to give a fair go to young people by enabling them more successfully to compete with adults and experienced persons in gaining employment? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the rather curious, unreal and provocative editorial statement in the  Australian  today which states: 
The Federal Treasurer, his advisers and, presumably, the majority of Cabinet continue to supply evidence that they do not live in the real world. They are entirely out of touch with ordinary people and ordinary people's problems. 
Does the Minister refute this statement and confirm that the Cabinet has the closest concern for ordinary people and that the Budget is an honest Budget building a very real increase in the prosperity of families and the people of Australia? Is it not true that the overall impact of the Budget means a positive increase of, I think, 0.3 per cent in real incomes for the people of Australia and that this welcome situation stands in stark contrast to the increase in taxation of 20 per cent or more in one year alone of the Whitlam Labor Government? 
It is not in order to ask whether certain things, such as statements made in a newspaper, are true . . . 
That is exactly what the honourable senator has been doing. He read directly from the editorial of a newspaper and asked whether a statement was true. 
I present the following petition from 26 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully say that we are concerned about the discrimination which exists against the children of those parents who are in receipt of the Supporting Parents Benefit in comparison with children of Single Parents who receive the Widows Pension. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Parliament take immediate steps to ensure that this year's budget allow for Lone Parents to be given the right to receive a pension with the same benefits as are given with the Widows Pension, and we also request that Parliament take immediate steps to instigate one ( 1 ) category of Lone Parent Pensions to eliminate the discrimination currently experienced. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Administrative Services. I refer to the responsibilities of the Commonwealth Police in comparison with the responsibilities of State police forces with regard to activities occurring on Commonwealth premises or Commonwealth land in one of the States of Australia. I refer in particular to the railway lines and railway stations of the Commonwealth Railways which interlace many areas of the States. Does the Minister agree that State Police do have responsibility properly to intervene to prevent a public disturbance or a criminal act on Commonwealth land in a State? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I refer to the Aboriginal Community College in North Adelaide and the important contribution it continues to make for Aboriginal education and for personal and community development not only in South Australia but also with good effect throughout our country. What will be the continuing basis of funding for the College from the beginning of next year? Has the College's application to the Minister of several months ago now been fully investigated by his Department or by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs? When should the College expect the Government's decision on this matter of its more permanent funding for the coming years? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to cheaper international air fares for Australian travellers. Is the Minister aware that in the past week there has been considerable public speculation concerning the introduction of a new Australian air policy? Is it true that Australia, to protect Qantas Airways Ltd, will create a number of monopolies and that this will result in cheap air fares being available from Australia to another country only on Qantas and on the national carrier of the other country? Is it true that one aspect of this new policy will be that Qantas will withdraw from Amsterdam, Paris and Belgrade and that, as a result, KLM and UTA will not be permitted to fly to Australia? Finally, does the Minister agree that a most important consideration in this matter is the best interests of the Australian public, that is, Australian travellers being able to enjoy large reductions in air fares and full freedom of choice in relation to air carrier? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to the total Commonwealth expenditure on hospitals over the last five years. What has been the pattern of spending on hospitals? Does this pattern show that the Liberal Government in the last three years has been able in each year successively to achieve its aim not only to provide fully for the hospitals required in the community but also to consolidate spending and ensure value for money in public expenditure on hospitals in Australia? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer and refer to the petrochemical industry proposed for Redcliff in South Australia at an establishment cost of $900m. Is the Minister aware that both Government and Opposition members in this Parliament and in the State Parliament regard the Redcliff project as a vital development of very great importance to our nation and to the people of South Australia? For this project to proceed, South Australia's loan application for $186m to cover infrastructure costs needs the approval of the Loan Council. This approval has now become very urgent because several months have passed since the application was made and unavoidable deadlines are involved. When will the Loan Council decision be made? When will the go ahead be given to the Redcliff project? 
I direct a question to  Senator Carrick  as Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs and as Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to reports of an impending war between Vietnam and Cambodia and in particular to the present massing of large numbers of Vietnamese troops in offensive positions on the Cambodian border. Can the Minister tell the Senate whether any Australian citizens are temporarily or permanently resident in Vietnam or Cambodia and, if so, how many? What procedures has the Government established for the safety of Australians in this area of Indo-China? Also, can the Minister give an assurance that no military assistance is being given or will be given to either country and that no Australian military personnel are now or will be in any regard located in this region? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to the immediate need for the training of young Aboriginal persons as teacher aides for employment among Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory, in South Australia and in the other States. Will the Minister, together with the Minister for Education, give urgent consideration to taking new and positive initiatives to attract a substantial increase in teacher aide trainees from the beginning of the 1979 year? Also, will the Minister not limit the definition of 'teacher aide' in this context to that applying in the majority of Australian schools, but relate this career directly to the practical needs of the Aboriginal community where these trainees will serve, so that there may be training not only in educational skills but also in health, social work and community development skills? 
I present the following petition from 85 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition ofthe undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to: 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will every pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the Australian aid program for the South Pacific region and Papua New Guinea. 
Is the Minister aware of the mischievous allegations made last Friday by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Lionel  Bowen, when he attempted to undermine the Government's aid program for countries in the South Pacific region? What are the facts? What has been the track record of the Liberal Government in regard to aid to our Pacific neighbours? What was the track record of the previous Government? I also ask the Minister whether there will be a renewed three-year program of aid for 1979-8 1 for the South Pacific? Will this program shortly be announced? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General and concerns the Australian Legal Aid Office, for which he announced revised guidelines yesterday. Is it true that in many cases inequities and injustices arise from the inequality of access to legal aid representation by two parties to a dispute where that inequality of access arises solely from the operation of the means test, which allows legal aid to be provided to one party but not to the other? This is the essential problem which legal aid has set out to solve but the reverse has occurred in that legal aid has, in many cases, created this problem. In particular, will the Government consider the access to legal aid by non-profit incorporated bodies, such as child care centres, which are at present ineligible to receive legal aid and which are put to a great disadvantage if sued by an individual person of poor means who has full access to legal aid? I ask that, if access is not given to the one group, in such disputes it not be extended to the other. 
My question is also directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and also concerns plutonium deposits at Maralinga in South Australia. I refer to the British technical team that visited Maralinga in the last week of October accompanied by an Australian team led by  Mr Woods,  secretary of the Department of National Development. I also refer to the South Australian Government's decision yesterday to ask, by way of a letter to the Prime Minister, that the Federal Government dig up all the plutonium at the site and send it back to Britain. I ask: Have the Federal Government's report and the British team's report on these investigations already been given to the South Australian Government before being presented to this Parliament? If so, why? When will the reports be tabled in the Senate? If not, is it true that the South Australian Government's decision has been based on inadequate information and hasty emotional assumptions? 
I present the following petition from 5 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the people of Australia having taken part in the government of Australia through universal suffrage in December 1975 and again in December 1977 and that on the basis of their expressed choice at the ballot box the people of Australia gave authority to the LiberalNational Country Party Coalition to form a federal government to bring into affect specific policies promulgated throughout the length and breadth of Australia by the said Coalition and that, whereas by virtue of being elected through universal suffrage, the Government Members now sitting in the House of Representatives were authorised to implement their stated objectives by legislation and that such authority did not extent to acting otherwise or to enact legislation not previously submitted to the will of the people, namely:- 째 Revoking the legislation for twice-yearly pension payments. 째 Imposing a freeze on the free-of-means-test pension. 째 Unemployed divided into those with dependents and those without. 째 Imposing income tax on pensions under age pension ageinvalid and repatriation service pensions: rehabilitation allowances and incentives; sheltered employment and allowances for tuberculosis sufferers (civilian and service) and any other impositions. 
Your petitioners submit that all or any of the foregoing proposed legislation of the Lower House, if implemented, will greatly disadvantage many thousands of citizens as either against their expressed will or not submitted to universal vote as the democratic right of the Australian people, therefore, 
Your petitioners call on the Senate as the House of Review to take appropriate action to release these persons from burdens unfairly placed in order to finance a deficit not of their making. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
ACT Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, concerns educational standards in Australian schools. I refer to Professor Chipman 's call yesterday for a new national school examination to evaluate the basic skills of children in arithmetic, elementary natural science, English expression and comprehension and clear thinking. Is it true that Commonwealth Department of Education surveys show that of 10 year-olds, 8 per cent cannot state correctly the letters of the alphabet and 10 per cent cannot perform simple, everyday calculations with whole numbers? Is it true that at the root of the malaise lie false doctrines of teacher education? Can the Senate expect that the Auchmuty inquiry into teacher training will directly address itself to these false doctrines? Finally, what is currently the status of the proposal to introduce a voucher system of education funding to individual families which would have advantages by way of greater accountability in schools, freedom of choice and greater incentive for schools to achieve basic educational standards? 
I have listened throughout the day to this debate with great interest. I will briefly outline my position. I have taken the point that a number of honourable senators have made that in such a debate in which there is a free vote, which I welcome, if we have the opportunity it is right to indicate how we will vote and why. About half of the members of the Senate have spoken in this debate today and I very much respect the individual philosophies that have been stated including the views of those honourable senators with which I do not agree. The matter that is before us essentially comes to a sentence which is contained in clause 3 of the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance. It states: 
A registered medical practitioner shall not carry out treatment for the termination of a pregnancy otherwise than at a hospital conducted by the Capital Territory Health Commission. 
The motion that is before us has been moved to disallow that ordinance. This debate is about abortion. It is about the extent of abortion carried out in the Australian Capital Territory and it is about the facilities provided for abortion in the Capital Territory. The ordinance restricts abortion to the current practice in hospitals by registered medical practitioners. I think that this debate about abortion must come fairly and squarely to the words of the ordinance to see that this motion aims to disallow that restriction and to see an extension in abortions. As I see it, the motion is proposing a division between those people who will allow an extension to abortion in the Territory and those people who deny an extension. I am opposed to an extension of abortion in the Capital Territory, so I do not support the motion of disallowance. In saying this, I believe that, like all other honourable senators, I have the right to speak even though I am a South Australian senator. In these matters it is the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government to make ordinances about health in the Territory and it is the right of the Parliament to disallow such an ordinance. 
As senators in this House I believe that we are all competent to speak directly about this matter and to make our own conscientious decisions without any criticism that because we do not live in the Territory or because we do not vote for the members of the Legislative Assembly we do not have the right to pass judgment. I want to come to that point more directly later on. Similarly, I regard it as fully within the right of the people of Australia, from whatever electorate, to represent their views by writing letters to us. Some honourable senators have criticised the hundreds and thousands of people who have an interest in this debate, 99 per cent of whom see the debate as being one about abortion and who therefore quite rightly have sent letters of opinion to us. They have every right to do so. I do not associate myself with extreme points of view on either side of this question and I do not associate myself with those people who have taken abusive approaches to any particular senator, including  Senator Ryan  who has moved the motion for disallowance. 
I shall make two observations on the debate, as I have seen it today. The first observation I make is that almost everyone, whether supporting the disallowance motion or opposing it, is most reluctant in his or her own capacity to support an extension of abortion. A number of honourable senators have risen to say that they would not have an abortion themselves, they would not encourage another person to have an abortion and they would not want any of their actions to encourage more abortion in the Capital Territory. They take the view that, nevertheless, they will support this disallowance motion because it is not their responsibility to thrust their personal views upon any other person or that their personal judgment in this debate should have any consequence for the people of the Territory. I think it is an interesting observation that amongst those honourable senators who are supporting the disallowance no one has wholeheartedly said that they are in favour of an extension of abortion in the Capital Territory. 
The second observation that I have made in listening to the debate today is that many of those honourable senators who want to disallow the ordinance argue on the basis that they want to pass on the responsibility of decision making to somebody else. There are those people who want to argue that the responsibility should be that of the Assembly. I believe that  Senator Knight  has given a very clear exposition of the rights of the Assembly as against the rights of the Commonwealth Government and the pending referendum to be held in the Australian Capital Territory. Like him I believe that we would negate our responsibilities in the Senate if we tried to pass the buck, if we tried to pass the responsibility for this decision on to the Assembly. There are those who want to pass the decision beyond the Assembly to the - 
Debate interrupted. 
I was making the observation that many of those who want to disallow the Ordinance argue that they want to pass on the responsibility of decision to some other body. I have outlined how some want to pass it on to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly Some want to pass it further- to the people ofthe Australian Capital Territory for decision by way of a special referendum. I believe that the Senate has a responsibility to make a decision on the motion before us. There are some who have tried to argue that the decision should be passed on and become subject to legal procedures. A number of amendments have been proposed by  Senator Evans  and  Senator Rae.  I believe that these amendments would take away the substance of any decision that may be made as a result of this single vote by a majority of senators. I do not see any prospect of good coming from the supposed apologies that are put in the amendments to try to clarify what this issue is about. The words of the Ordinance are what this motion is about. The motion proposes the disallowance of that Ordinance. We can only interpret the meaning of the motion in terms of the words of the Ordinance. I agree with  Senator Cavanagh  that any such motion does not need the kind of apology that  Senator Evans  or  Senator Rae  proposed by way of amendments. I reject the amendments. 
I believe that a tortuous debate on procedure and on what we are trying to do would be a red herring that would only confuse the question. Members of this Senate have before them a motion on which they are to vote yes or no. That is a decision which we must take because the responsibility for it is ours. There are some who want to pass responsibility for the decision back to the Federal Government. They want to disallow the Ordinance and then to pressure members of the Government in the corridors with the intention of bringing in a new ordinance. Proposals have been put forward in the debate as to what the terms of a new ordinance might be. But again I believe this is passing the buck, passing responsibility on from this point of decision. In the ultimate, those who want to see the greatest extension of abortion are those who want to pass the decision from legislatures and community groups altogether to members of the medical profession throughout Australia. Passing responsibility for a decision from the Senate to the Assembly to a referendum of the people, to the Government, to legal procedures or to the medical profession is characteristic of the first observation I made when I said that most individuals taking part in this debate are not in favour, personally, of an extension of abortion but they do not want to take the decision. They do not want to have the responsibility of their decision having an effect on someone else. 
I must say, as did  Senator Tate  and  Senator Harradine,  that some of the confusion has come from those in this debate who want to hang their hats on the words of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in answer to a question from  Mr Beazley  in the House of Representatives in March last year. A large part ofthe argument of those who are in favour of the disallowance of the Ordinance rests on a commitment which they suppose the Minister for Health made not merely to receive advice from the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly but to accept it.  Senator Harradine  has referred to the context of what the Minister for Health said. The  Hansard  report of 24 March shows that there was uproar in the House of Representatives; it shows a call for order; it shows a very unstable and provoked Minister for Health trying to make a decision in answer to the question asked by  Mr Beazley. Mr Beazley  was opposed to any extension of abortion and he was trying to get a similar commitment from the Minister.  Mr Beazley  said that in 1973 the House of Representatives had rejected an extension of abortion by the huge majority of 98 votes to 23. He was one of those who voted with the large majority. He believed that the House of Representatives had made a decision which had not been rescinded. He therefore pressed the Minister for Health to say how the view of the Parliament could be neglected when procedure was under way for an expansion of abortion in the Australian Capital Territory. The Minister for Health said that the Assembly would be consulted and he mentioned the word decisions'. 
I think there is something in  Senator Harradine  's point about alliteration. The Minister said there would be decisions in respect of the recommendations.  Senator Tate  put it so well at the beginning of the debate when he said that the Minister for Health accepted that there would be decisions about what recommendations the Assembly would give to the Government and the Government would make its decision. How could the Minister do otherwise? Constitutionally, the decision in these matters lies with the Federal Government. It lies with the advice that the Minister brings to the Federal Government. I believe that honourable senators who are influenced by what the Minister said do not have hooks on which to hang their hats if they look at that page of  Hansard  for a promise given to the Assembly that its recommendations would in every respect be acted upon. But its principal recommendations have been acted upon. 
In summary, my observation of this debate is that various devices have been used by those who want the Ordinance disallowed to pass the decision to somewhere else. I believe that this is symptomatic of the attitude of legislatures throughout Australia in the movement in the last 10 years towards liberalised abortion in this country. I am not in every case opposed to abortion. I would not move a motion in this chamber to disallow the current practice of abortion in the Australian Capital Territory. But as I said at the outset, I am opposed to the extension of the practice of abortion, and that is what this motion is about. Those who will be voting for the disallowance will be voting for an extension of the practice of abortion and those who will be opposing the disallowance will be voting for no extension of the practice of abortion. 
I must say that I have real sympathy for the position that was outlined by  Senator Puplick  because I believe that he most conscientiously believes that, regardless of whether the Minister has made commitments to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly and of whether honourable senators have any say about abortion laws in this Territory, on principle he will not make any decision for anybody else with regard to that person's choice as to whether to have an abortion. I respect that opinion but I do not share it. Similarly, I respect the argument put by  Senator Baume  as a medical practitioner and as a person greatly experienced in counselling persons contemplating abortion. He has adopted a consistent position, and he is singular-minded in this regard, as to allowing private clinics to operate. The rest of the honourable senators are opposed to private clinics and I believe that a majority of us are opposed to any extension of abortion on any grounds. 
My position is that I believe that the Senate has a decision to make on this motion and that it should not pass on the responsibility for making that decision to some other body. I believe that those who are opposed to an extension of the practice of abortion in the Australian Capital Territory should vote against the motion for disallowance. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. I make the preliminary observation that my question arose a few days ago at a meeting of the Parliamentary Science Group with Professor Geoffrey Badger, Chairman of the Australian Science and Technology Council. Is it the Government's policy to introduce on a regular basis an annual science budget or annual statement which will consolidate the various expenditures on science in the whole range of departments and commissions? If it is the Government's policy, when will such an annual statement be first made? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to a matter I have raised several times before in the Senate, that is, the excise on Australian brandy. I ask: Is it true that in the Budget Papers the Government estimated the fall in Australian brandy sales to be 5 per cent or 6 per cent on last year's sales as a result of the 83 per cent increase in the brandy excise? Does the Government continue to estimate the fall to be 5 per cent or 6 per cent? Is it also true that the brandy industry has estimated the fall to be 39 per cent in a full year? Given this major difference in estimates, will the Minister give to the Senate today the evidence and reasoning on which the Government's estimate of 5 per cent or 6 per cent is based? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General and concerns the Franki report on the photocopying of articles and books which was submitted by the then AttorneyGeneral in October 1976. I refer to a Press release of June this year by the Attorney-General which announced: 
A new scheme to permit schools, universities and other educational institutions to photocopy literary works and textbooks without infringing copyright will soon be introduced into the Parliament. 
When will the Government introduce legislation to implement the recommendations of the report? Is it still intended that the legislation will implement the report's recommendations? If not, which recommendations are unacceptable to the Government, and why? 
My question is directed to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as Minister representing the Treasurer. But first may I join you,  Mr President,  and the Senate in welcoming  Mrs Haines,  my predecessor in this place. I refer to housing loan interest rates and I note that today's newspapers report that building societies in Victoria have decided on a O.S per cent across the board cut in rates. Will the Minister clarify the full perspective of the current situation in regard to housing loan interest rates? Has the Government's initiatives to reduce interest rates been finally accepted by the banks? To what extent is the decision of the banks still dependent on agreements with permanent building societies? When does the Government expect the lower interest rates for housing loans with both the banks and the building societies to be finally achieved in all States? 
-The Bill before us is the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978. 1 wish to refer to that section of it which relates to Australianproduced brandy. My aim is to be concise. I support the Bill and urge all honourable senators to do so also. I speak on this matter chiefly for three reasons. First, 90 per cent of the brandy industry is to be found in my State of South Australia. Secondly, I first spoke on this matter during the Budget debate in September and then raised a number of critical questions which I now want to answer. Thirdly, I believe the reason why this section of the Bill has been highlighted in the Parliament, both in the other place and here, has been the context in which the grape growers and the grape industry find themselves, with the present enormous surplus in grape production. It follows the imposition by the previous Government of an increase in the excise of 23 1 per cent in the period 1973 to 1975. This led to a change in the differential between Australian brandy and imported whisky, from 60 per cent in favour of Australian brandy at the beginning of that Government's term of office to a much diminished differential of 5.4 per cent at the end of its term. 
In this context, the grape industry faced a very serious situation, which was heightened all the more by the over-production, the enormous number of new vines that were planted throughout Australia. The present Government has responded to this by welcoming a Senate inquiry into the grape growing industry and by setting up a thorough and comprehensive inquiry by the Industries Assistance Commission into the industry. It is believed that the Commission will report to the Government in February of next year. This section of the Bill is all the more highlighted because the submissions to the IAC by the industry were being made at the time the August Budget was being prepared. Naturally, the industry made the same representations to Ministers, hoping that they would have effects, by the introduction by the Government of a differential, as early as the Budget presentation. The Government has decided that the decision with regard to the differential should be made when the IAC report is received. I appreciate the Government's opinion and support it. Accordingly, the representations that were made at Budget time by the industry have been delayed and there has been a sense of frustration, a sense that the industry 's representations were not fully heeded at that time. I have been assured, from constant representations to the Government on behalf of the industry, that these representations have been well received by the Government and will be fully taken into account, as Ministers have said in this debate, when the IAC report is received. 
What is the situation before us? The excise on spirits, beer and tobacco was raised substantially in the August Budget so as to produce increased revenue from these sources in the amount of $435m. The increase in the excise on potable spirits was 83.6 per cent. Most of the misunderstandings and differences in this debate have resulted from the differing responses to that Budget decision by the industry on the one hand and by the Government on the other. The Government has estimated that the fall in brandy sales as a result of that decision on excise will be of the order of 5 per cent to 6 per cent. If that is the case, as the Government now predicts, there will not be a major dislocation of the brandy industry or the disaster that local newspapers and industry spokesmen have predicted. But the industry has made different estimates and it has put these, strongly and convincingly, especially in the weeks immediately following the presentation of the Budget. Industry spokesmen were well armed as a result of their representations to the Industries Assistance Commission inquiry and their representations in June to the Government. Their immediate response to the increased excise was to put out thencase. On the face of it I welcomed and understood the case and was very concerned that it be put clearly to the Government. Accordingly I spoke along those lines in September. I said that I would work continuously to make sure that a remedy is found; that I would assist the Government in determining that remedy and in passing it on to the people. I believe that that remedy will be found for the people in this industry in the light of all the facts put to the IAC inquiry, the report on which is being presented to the Government. 
The argument that follows from this estimate by the industry of a 35 per cent to 39 per cent fall in sales leads immediately to a different calculation of the stocks of brandy the industry has on hand. What before the Budget had been 3.9 years of stock became, allowing for the 40 per cent fall in sales, 6.3 years of stock. In the light of this it was contemplated that the industry would not be taking any new grapes. However, if this estimate is wrong and if the Government's estimate of a fall in sales of only 5 per cent to 6 per cent is right, those stocks are not so greatly increased and it would be practicable for the industry to take in fresh brandy grapes, even this season. The Government's estimate needs to be taken into account by the industry. It is the industry which will decide on the tonnage of grapes to be received and the amount of brandy to be produced. The estimates should be based on the best available evidence. 
The industry has based its entire case on one paper entitled 'A model of the Australian brandy industry'. It is an econometric model produced by Professor Burley and  Mr Bath.  It has not been tested and it has not been used by the industry to predict changes in excise in any previous year. It was written some months ago and was snapped up immediately by the industry as a basis for predicting its estimates. This academic paper, this econometric model, predicts- I believe unreliably and without certainty- that there will be a drop in brandy sales of 35 per cent this year and 39 per cent in a full year. Hence the whole industry case, the story that got across to the Riverland which led to some degree of panic and severe concern and which has been continuously published in Riverland newspapers, the story that was taken up by the former member for Angas in his remarks at the Renmark show, the story that was taken up by me in the Budget debate in putting the industry's view, depends upon this high estimate of the fall in sales. 
The question that has to be considered is: Who is right? This Senate is a House of review and I believe that it must make an assessment of the speeches and remarks made in the weeks immediately following the Budget and analyse the industry's case as fairly as it can. I have tried to undertake that review. I listened carefully to the debate in the House of Representatives and I believe that there are weaknesses in the initial industry case and strengths in the Government's position. Briefly I want to outline those weaknesses and strengths. The first weakness in the industry's case is, of course, that the econometric model has not been tested previously, even informally. Various sections of the industry are not going to rely fully upon this academic model but will watch sales carefully to see what the position might be in the middle of December. The second weakness is that no one has been able to show that a substantial number of grape growers depend in a major way on sales of brandy grapes for their livelihood. In the Riverland most grape growers sell most of their grapes for wine. They are involved also in fruit growing and other enterprises. Only part of their income is derived from the sale of brandy grapes. Traditionally in the industry the excess grapes, the inferior grapes, have been sold to distilleries to make brandy. So a case could not be made that as a result of the increased excise a substantial hardship would fall upon people; that they would be denied completely their livelihood. I do not know of one single case where someone will be denied his livelihood because his income was derived from brandy grapes. 
The third point in respect of the industry case is that we should not lose sight of the fact that grape growing is an industry incorporating the wine industry, the fortified wine industry, the spirit industry, the brandy industry, the dried fruit industry and the table grape industry. In the Riverland area, where 85 per cent of the brandy industry is located, there has been an enormous input of fresh income and prosperity as a result of the Government's Budget decision not to place any impost or tax or excise on wine. Indeed, the increase in wine sales since the Budget has been of the order of 25 per cent. This enormous boost in wine sales will bring fresh prosperity to the incomes and livelihood of the majority of grape growers. I believe that as a result of the Budget it cannot be shown with certainty that there will be substantial, significant losses on account of brandy but that there certainly will be quite enormous gains to those grape growers as a result of increased wine sales. By looking at the industry as a whole the Government has begun to correct the suffering that was induced several years ago, both on the wine front and on the brandy front. 
With regard to the Government's position, I will outline various strengths. The Government did not introduce in the Budget any new differential with regard to Australian produced brandy. It allowed the status quo to remain until the IAC report on potable spirits is received. I am convinced that this is the time to consider the change in the differential. In addition, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  advised me in mid-October that the tariff still substantially assists the Australian brandy industry. He said: 
The short-term tariff assistance for brandy of about $2.10 per litre of alcohol on import clearances within quota remains and, as announced in the Budget, Australian brandy production is now also provided with additional protection from imported brandy by the 12.S per cent tariff surcharge within quota import clearances. 
The Government also has relied in coming to its Budget decisions on not imposing a wine tax because of the enormous problems that the industry faces as a result of the surplus in production. Estimates of the quantity of excess grapes have varied from 50,000 tonnes to 100,000 tonnes. These grapes will be left on the vines this season and the Government, in making its revenue decisions, had to weigh whether, in order to gain necessary revenue, it would place an impost upon wine or an impost upon all potable spirits. The Government chose to place the increased excise on potable spirits because it believed that giving a free reign to wine sales would be the most significant way in which to assist the grape growing industry as a whole. In recent weeks I have been most impressed by the Government's case and I have been unable to sustain a strong argument on behalf of the industry. 
I have borne in mind some other considerations but these have been lesser considerations because I believe that the substantial question before us in this Bill is the estimate of damage done to an industry by a Budget decision. I have tried to argue my assessment of that damage. The other consideration which should be given some weight is that this is a revenue Bill and that a government in the House of Representatives has the right to determine the guidance the economy should have and to determine how it should raise its revenue. Accordingly, by this Bill the Government has imposed an excise upon potable spirits, upon beer and upon tobacco and in other areas has increased sales tax and the excise on oil and so on. It would be with reluctance that honourable senators, particularly those on this side of the House, would say that the Government has not that right to raise revenue. Even if some aspect of the Budget were to prove an impediment to an industry or even if I greatly disliked some aspect of the Budget, the Budget should be seen as a whole. If every member were to delete from the Budget those items which he did not like, there would be a chipping away at the Budget here and there and the Government could not be assured of its own Budget decisions prevailing. 
Another consideration, and it was a very serious one for the Government, was whether instead of an excise increase an alternative wine tax should be imposed. The whole grape growing industry does not want such a tax. The Senate standing committee that reported on the grape growing industry, chaired by  Senator Sheil,  strongly recommended to this Senate and to the Parliament that there be no new tax on wine until the industry is able to buy itself out from under the great penalties imposed on it by the previous Labor Government. Another consideration that has led to my assessment of the situation is that the Government has given every assurance that it will act to take up the representations that the Liberal senators and the Labor senators from South Australia put to it on behalf of the industry at the time that the Industries Commission Assistance report was received. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  when he introduced this Bill in another place on 15 November, said: 
The Government has received representations on behalf of the Australian brandy manufacturing industry in relation to the effect of this measure on the industry. We are concerned with the position of Australian brandy producers. Indeed although the Budget applied increases equally to all excisable spirits, it provided no new impost on Australian wine. Demonstrably this action has already stimulated domestic demand. There is an Industries Assistance Commission report on potable spirits outstanding and the appropriate time to consider further the position of the brandy industry is in the context of the report. The representations will be carefully considered by the Government at that time. 
Similarly,  Senator Durack,  as the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, when introducing this Bill in the Senate gave similar assurances, and I do not take those assurances lightly. I have welcomed them from the Government, as have all my fellow senators from South Australia. 
Senior Bishop- But you have changed your mind,  Senator, since  we met the Acting Premier. 

 -Mr President, I hear various interjections from the other side of the House but I have noted that Opposition senators have been very quiet throughout this debate. I believe it is evident from the debate both here and in another place that members of the Labor Party are aware that their Government imposed an extraordinary 23 1 per cent increase in excise during its term of office. 
-Two hundred and thirtyone per cent. 
It was 1973 to 1975. 1 listened to the debate in the other place and I listened to the honourable member for Adelaide who led for the Opposition. He was the only person present in the chamber on his side of the House. I believe that he had at the back of his mind that his side would be accused of hypocrisy if it took a stronger line in falsely accusing this Government. I also note that the honourable member for Adelaide, when leading for the Opposition in the debate in another place, said that he accepted the 40 per cent drop in sales that the industry had calculated. He said: 
That is the indication from all sources I have been able to tap to date. 
In other ways he left himself with routes of escape in case that industry estimate, based on the academic paper, did not eventuate. I believe he was wise to do so. The case that has been put by the Opposition in this place has been similarly restrained and careful because the whole of the Opposition's case, apart from political pressuring, is resting upon this estimate. 
In summary, I can say only that in the Budget debate two months ago I had very clearly in my mind the very significant questions that had been put to me very clearly and carefully by the industry. I took these matters most seriously. I represented them here in the Senate and I represented them carefully to the Government. I am delighted that the Government has responded to those representations with the assurance that every consideration would be given to those representations at the appropriate time and that is when the full, objective case of the Industries Assistance Commission is given to the Government. I believe that that will be in February. I assure the people of South Australia that all the Liberal senators from South Australia, indeed, all senators on this side of the House will be most vigilant to remind the Government of its assurance then. 
Finally, I point out that the dilemma in which the grape industry finds itself is not primarily the outcome of an absolute increase in excise, although I believe that the industry will be assisted early next year by a differential of about 30 per cent- the amount of differential which was enjoyed in the past and which ought to be given to an Australian industry. What is more serious is the degree of over-planting of new vineyards, without control, without check, without licence and without registration. I believe that the case put by the Wine and Brandy Co-operative Producers Association of Australia, which still stands before the Industries Assistance Commission and which has been very responsibly argued with regard to a national register of vineyards, with regard to a national pricing scheme and with regard to wine and brandy imports being required to meet the National Health and Medical Research Council regulations applying to wines produced in Australia, is vital in remedying the serious situation before the grape industry. I hope that I have given to the Senate a fuller explanation of the questions that have been in my mind in recent weeks, and I urge honourable senators to support the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. I refer to the Antarctic and the successful 'proving flight' of late January when a Hercules aircraft landed for the first time at the Australian base at Casey. Will the Government now press on to ensure regular flights to Australian Antarctic bases during the summer periods beginning from the next season? Also, what operational costs may be estimated for regular flights and is there advantage for Australia in exploring joint arrangements with New Zealand and the United States of America in respect of the provision of these flights? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In view of the present high level of youth unemployment, is the Minister aware of any evidence that highlights the apparent preference of employers for young and middle-aged women over school leavers, especially male school leavers? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerns the China- Vietnam war and the Australian Government's intelligence assessments as reported in yesterday's newspapers. For example, I note a paragraph on page 1 of the  Australian  which reads: 
An intelligence assessment of the Sino-Viet war given to the Federal Government in Canberra says the Chinese have assured senior NATO governments they intend to restrict the conflict with Vietnam to the border regions and to a short time span. 
Was this Federal Government intelligence assessment of the Sino-Viet war officially or unofficially given to the Australian media by the Government? Which department gives such briefs and on what basis are they given? Will the Government present such intelligence assessments and media briefs to this Parliament and in particular give clarification of the contents of Chinese communications with Australia and other countries as to China's intentions and goals? Finally, can it be confirmed that the media's reporting of such well-placed intelligence assessments is not in breach of the intelligence security of the senior North Atlantic Treaty Organisation governments or of this country with whom the Chinese Government has communicated? 
My question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Acting Treasurer, concerns the abolition of death duties which has become the subject of such an enormous political controversy in South Australia this week following the Liberal Party's renewed commitment to abolish death duties imposed by the State. I ask: When the Fraser Government last year abolished death duties imposed by the Commonwealth, were there any negotiations with the States seeking a parallel abolition by those States still holding out? If so, is the Federal Government in a position to continue to press in these negotiations for the abolition of death duties in South Australia? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, concerns Commonwealth post-graduate awards. The first Fraser Budget in 1976 vastly increased the postgraduate award allowances and the second Fraser Budget again increased them. However, last year there was no increase in the Budget and the allowance was made taxable. I ask: Is the Government aware of the sound arguments that urge an increase in the post-graduate award allowances to take account of inflation and the diminished value of the allowances, arising from their now being taxable? Will the Government give consideration to making an increase payable from 1 July 1979, the beginning of the next tax year, whether the increase is achieved in this session of Parliament or whether it is back dated from the August Budget? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, concerns early school leavers and youth unemployment. Yesterday, the Minister, in answer to a question from  Senator Lajovic  on school retention rates, said: 
There is a relationship between leaving school early and the incidence of unemployment. 
. the younger and the less equipped the school leaver, the harder it is for that school leaver to get a job. 
I ask the Minister: What initiatives can and will the Commonwealth take to remedy this continuing problem? Will the Government, through the Schools Commission and through its funding to the States, encourage courses to be developed in schools to give remedial instruction and employment orientation instruction to potential early school leavers so that there will be a higher school retention rate and a more useful foundation laid for employable skills? 
-I seek leave to ask a question. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. It concerns the importation of aquarium fish. Is it correct that the Australian Fisheries Council has received from a small committee of public servants a report proposing that new and major restrictions be imposed on the importation of aquarium fish, with a reduction of the present list of 600 fish species to permit only 100 species to be legally imported? Is it correct that this would demolish half of the $20Om aquarium fish importing industry in Australia and yet at no stage has the industry been consulted? Can the Minister assure the Senate that the restrictions will not in fact be implemented by the Government and that before any new arrangements are considered by the Government the industry's representatives will be fully consulted? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. It concerns the Williams Committee report and its discussion of changes in access to post-secondary education that may have followed the abolition of fees and the establishment of the current system of tertiary student allowances. The Williams Committee referred to two important surveys carried out on this matter- one by  Dr Anderson,  suggesting that the access was improved by 25 per cent and another by Professor Blandy, who came to the conclusion that, 'educational opportunities have not been widened'. What consistency is there between these two surveys? What is the Government's own assessment of the extent of widening access to education and of the improved quality of student performance as a result of the abolition of fees and the now highly developed Tertiary Education Assistance scheme? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment, follows from a question that I asked earlier this week about the importation of aquarium fish. Is the Minister aware that the importers of aquarium fish have their own very specific and sound proposals for improvements in quarantine facilities which would reduce the species of fish to be imported to about half their present number but on a rational and well ordered basis? Is the Minister aware that this argument has not been formally received by the Government because there has been no channel for those importers to put their case to the Government? Has the Minister become informally aware of these representations from importers? Will he allow the importers to put their arguments to Ministers considering this question? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, concerns Ayers Rock. Has the Government a clear view of the status of the Uluru National Park land in relation to the ability of local Aboriginal communities to seek, by way of a land rights application, the exclusive use of the area by those communities? Is it the Government's view that given the unique and special significance of Ayers Rock in our country, all Australians have a real interest in having responsible access to the area? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. Is the Government concerned that the extraordinary subsidy currently given in respect of defence service homes loans is now quite out of perspective and socially inequitable? Loans are provided up to a maximum amount of $ 1 5,000 at interest rates of up to 4.5 per cent per annum to be repaid over 32 years. Is there any other Commonwealth or State welfare financing scheme that is so exceptionally generous? Why has the interest rate remained virtually unchanged since the 1940s despite other interest rates increasing- in general even doubling or trebling- in the intervening period? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, concerns the interface between the taxation system and the payment of pensions by the Department of Social Security. Is it true that the rate of withdrawal of pension and the application of the standard rate of income tax in cases where a pensioner's own income exceeds about $25 a week have the combined effect that the pensioner retains less than one-third of each marginal dollar earned? This is an effective tax rate greater than 66c in the dollar and applies to thousands of pensioners. Does the Government acknowledge that this is an anomalous situation and that it was not intended by the Government? Will the Government give direct attention to adjusting the means test on the pension and adjusting the lowest tax threshold so as to remove the burden of this anomaly from pensioners? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, concerns the provision of electric power to remote Aboriginal communities. To what extent has the Commonwealth Government assumed responsibility for the provision of major services such as power and water in these Aboriginal communities? Will the Minister, when responsibly requested, give consideration to such responsibilities passing to the local Aboriginal communities themselves on the basis that the present funding levels for these matters also pass to these communities? In particular, will the Minister give very urgent consideration to the provision of electric power to the Pitjantjatjara community at Fregon in South Australia where this week the power supply, after a history of difficulties, has again failed, causing very real stress in that community? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I note that today is the thirty-first anniversary of Israel's independence. I ask the Minister: Will the Government consider moving the Australian Embassy from the city of Tel Aviv in Israel to the capital city in that country, Jerusalem. I acknowledge that a number of countries have their embassies in the much larger city of Tel Aviv but, given the increasing independence and security of Israel, I ask the Minister whether the Government will consider moving the Australian Embassy to the capital city, Jerusalem. 
I rise to respond briefly to the remarks of  Senator Cavanagh.  I believe that the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has already answered fully his principal point, in regard to not making possible the communication of any material from the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to a State body or other organisation unless the appeal mechanism that is urged by Opposition senators had been fully met. I think that the Attorney-General has established very clearly the Government's position, on that point. All honourable senators would have real sympathy for the particular case  Senator Cavanagh  has just outlined of an individual whose employment may be in doubt, or has been lost, because of activities to which he is no longer committed. 
I expect that the Government, if it were within its power, could respond sympathetically to the case that has been outlined. In such a case the appeal procedures available within Australia Post or any Commonwealth commission, ought to be taken up by the individual concerned. The employer, in this case Australia Post, would be able to assess the explanation given by the employee as well as any other information available to it also. 
Although I am sympathetic towards the individual, the case he has raised relates to a Commonwealth agency, not a State agency. Therefore the appeal procedures that are set out in the Bill before the Senate could be acted upon by such an individual. The information that is alleged in this case to have been provided by ASIO is subject to the appeal procedures provided in the ASIO legislation. Indeed, even if the employer were a State organisation and if ASIO had given such an assessment, surely that person, being a citizen of Australia could appeal to the source of the assessment, using the procedures set out in the Bill. On those various counts, I believe that the points that have just been made by  Senator Cavanagh  do not stand. I support what was said by the Attorney-General. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security a question about the mischievous rumours that were circulated earlier this week following Press and other speculation concerning class B and C widows pensions. Some rumours alleged reductions; others alleged that it was proposed that the pensions be abolished. All this has caused unnecessary anxiety, even panic, among widow pensioners. I ask the Minister: Was she consulted for clarification prior to the original speculation first being published? Is it realistic to expect that in a pre-Budget atmosphere there are any remedies to prevent those who would initiate speculation of this kind with the consequent anxiety in the community? Finally, is the Minister now satisfied that, following her clarifying statements on Tuesday and yesterday, the speculation and distress have been put to rest? 
I rise briefly to make a personal explanation in regard to remarks made by  Senator Chipp  in his own personal explanation to the Senate this morning. I regret that  Senator Chipp  is not present in the chamber at the moment.  1  was able to give notice to his secretary some minutes ago at the beginning of the adjournment debate that I intended to raise this matter and she assured me that my message would be passed directly to him.  Senator Chipp  was hostile in his remarks about me and I think about many honourable senators for what he alleged to be our misrepresentation of his position in a debate on his Bill yesterday.  Senator Chipp  was hostile in particular with regard to an interjection I made during the adjournment debate last night. My interjection represented my view that  Senator Chipp  had misrepresented the Government Whip with regard to the alleged agreement that had been made, and moreover that he had misled the Opposition on this same point. 
This morning  Senator Chipp  rather grandiosely said that I was incorrect in taking that position. Moreover, he said that this was a constant state of mind on my part not only in regard to this matter but also in regard to other matters. I want to go over briefly the difficulties that arose yesterday, which I still believe were managed by the honourable senator for better Press publicity for himself rather than for enlightenment or for good debate in this chamber. When the first reading of his Bill was considered by the Senate he immediately interjected on the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  and said: 
That is a betrayal of an agreement . . . with your Whip. 
There followed an hour of difficulties in this chamber when we debated whether there had been such a betrayal of an agreement. Some minutes afterwards  Senator Chipp  said: 
I was clearly under the impression from the Government Whip when I saw him in the chamber before dinner that I would be permitted to move the first reading or my Bill, that I would then be able to ask for leave to move the second reading . . . 
This impression that he would be able to proceed beyond the first reading of the Bill was, I believe, clearly in everybody's mind, because that was the point in the procedure at which he felt frustrated. On page 1581 of yesterday's  Hansard  Senator Grimes,  when referring to this, is reported to have said: 
The matter which has been deferred to another day is the second reading stage   of a  Bill . . . 
The difficulties continued for about an hour, but later in the adjournment debate  Senator Baume,  the Government Whip, said very clearly: 
At no time had any arrangement been made to allow  Senator Chipp  to proceed to an immediate second reading speech on his private member's Bill. 
In his explanation  Senator Baume  reiterated that statement a couple of times. This morning  Senator Chipp  did not differ in any way with any of the statements made in  Senator Baume  's personal explanation. So we must see immediately the conflict between his allegation in the substantial debate that he would be able, by some agreement with the Government, to proceed to the second reading of his Bill and his denial of that this morning. That was the very point of my interjection to which he was hostile in his statement this morning. Immediately following  Senator Baume's  explanation last evening, on behalf of the Opposition  Senator Georges  said: 
Some discussion took place between  Senator Chipp  and  Senator Baume.  Some misunderstanding arose because of that discussion which spread across to the Opposition. We were told one thing by  Senator Chipp  which obviously was not correct. 
That is the point of view that I also hold and that was the point of my interjection. Immediately following  Senator Georges'  remarks,  Senator Grimes  reiterated this point. He is the spokesman for the Opposition on social security matters, the subject of the Bill. On page 1 605 of  Hansard  he is reported to have said: 
I was certainly Icd to believe that there was an agreement between the minority party and the Government. 1 must say that when I was told of this alleged agreement I hud a certain amount of difficulty in believing that such an agreement hud been made. However. I was convinced--  lt was at that point, following all these earlier statements, that I interjected, I believe correctly, and said: 
You were misled by the minority party. 
In his personal explanation this morning  Senator Chipp  took issue with that correct interjection and nothing that he said in any substance in his personal explanation this morning denies the correctness of my interjection. Indeed, my whole purpose in making this brief personal explanation to the Senate now is to say that my views are all the more confirmed because of what we heard this morning. In a matter on which we have had an hour and a half of difficulties in this Senate with Press statements, Press coverage, discussion of gags and discussion of agreements being broken, I think it is very much to the disadvantage of this chamber that a gloss has been put on a so-called agreement by the honourable senator. It is because such a gloss was put on it and because the blame for these difficulties was unjustifiably passed over to the Government that I wanted, by this personal explanation, to clarify that I still believe today exactly what I believed yesterday. I regret that the honourable senator made unsubstantiated statements about me in his personal explanation this morning. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, by reminding him that rural telephone costs are extraordinarily high, even for normal neighbourly contact and for essential local services. I refer especially to the west coast area of South Australia. I ask the Minister: Will the Government give every consideration to a more reasonable basis for the equalisation of rural telephone call charges with those of urban communities? In particular, will the Government, together with the Telecommunications Commission, give full consideration to the proposal that telephone charges should penalise time much more than distance as time, not distance, ties up the telephone network and contributes to the required capital outlay? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Education. It concerns specific learning difficulties. I am concerned that children with invisible handicaps such as dyslexia or specific learning difficulties be given sympathetic and professional assistance by special education programs within our schools. What is the Australian Government's attitude towards the identification and treatment of children with specific learning difficulties? What schemes of assistance are currently funded or proposed to be funded by the Australian Government? In particular, what were the circumstances which led to the Schools Commission innovation grants program earlier this year turning down a submission by the Specific Learning Difficulties Association of Australia in Adelaide which sought only $3,500 for a scheme which I believe was effectively arranged for assistance to children suffering specific learning difficulties? 
The motion that has been moved by  Senator Grimes  is that it should be the opinion of this Senate that the following is a matter of urgency: 
The need to exempt social security recipients and low inconic families from the Government's punitive economic measures. 

 Senator Grimes read that motion at the beginning of his speech, and that was the last we heard of it. He did not in any way relate his remarks to the wording of that motion; rather, he gave a surprisingly responsible speech, based on his record of participation in these debates, urging responsible actions in the social welfare area. This Government has a very good, strong and popular record in achieving such needs. He urged Government members and senators in particular to make sure that the needs of welfare recipients and those who receive benefits from the Department of Social Security are not overlooked in the forthcoming Budget in August this year. 
Indeed, the record of achievement of the Government in the last three years is such a very good one that it gives a great deal of security and confidence to the people of Australia that the Fraser Government will continue to enact responsible Budget decisions in the area of welfare services. I cite the figures in the social security and welfare budget over the last three years of the Fraser Government. There has been an increase in the three years of 27 per cent, 16 per cent and 7 per cent respectively in this area of spending. There has been an increase in the amount spent in those three years from $5.1 billion in 1975-76 to an estimated $8 billion in this financial year. The Government has given very high priority to the needs of members of the community who gain benefits from a social security system. 

 Senator Grimes' motion has not been directly referred to in the debate in the Senate this afternoon. The rather woolly speech that he gave was one that I, for my part welcomed as one which supports the views of those honourable senators who wish to see the momentum of the Government's welfare record continue into the next Budget.  Senator Ryan  sought to support her colleague with a more flamboyant and caricaturing speech about the reallocation of resources and did not in any way refer to the substantial gains by welfare recipients in Australia. She rather based her remarks on evidence that she quoted from an article in the  London Times,  of all places, without stating who wrote the article, how responsible the person who wrote it was, on what evidence that claim was made and, moreover, that it was written eight years ago in 1971.1 believe that the Opposition, in a debate such as this, should use relevant evidence and real arguments to influence the Senate or indeed the Government. It should use the kinds of arguments that I believe Liberal and National Country Party members are daily urging upon members of this Government and, I believe, with very good success.  Senator Ryan  tried to support her colleague with statements about reallocation in what was, to my mind, a caricaturing speech and one which does not require real consideration. 
The main statistic to which the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has already referred, and which I want to underline, is that during this current financial year in the area of age pensions- the area to which Opposition speakers have most directed their attention this afternoon- the present Government has achieved the highest level of pension payments as a percentage of average weekly earnings. They are at the level of 24. 1 per cent. The aspiring  Mr Whitlam  of 1972 and the Australian Labor Party, then in Opposition, promised that within three years a Labor government would lift the pension to 25 per cent rate of average weekly earnings. In those three years it increased the rate from 21.4 per cent to 23.1 per cent. It did not keep its promise. It did not live up to the goal that it had set for itself. In comparison, in three years this Government has lifted the rate from 23 per cent to 24. 1 per cent. That is the highest ever level of pensions as a percentage of average weekly earnings. Therefore, all the arguments of the Opposition spokesmen this afternoon, which have concentrated upon this level of government provision for age pensioners in our society, collapse because this Government has been able to achieve the highest level on record. With regard to the security of age pensioners, the Fraser Government has lived up to its promise to bring in automatic indexation of the pension. This was achieved in 1976 and has given a very real measure of security to pensioners in this country who know that pensions now will be indexed automatically each 12 months according to cost increases. 
Labor never introduced such a measure. Indeed, it was a Liberal government that set the pace, as was the case with family allowances; it was a Liberal government that introduced family allowances. 1 believe the pensioners of Australia are not fooled by the caricaturing or carping attitude of some Opposition spokesmen who try to undermine these achievements of the Fraser Government. 

 - Senator Messner asks about inflation. I was about to say that the broad economic strategy of the Government, which was endorsed overwhelmingly in 1975 and 1977, is to bring down the rate of inflation and to have a responsible approach to economic management in this country. That strategy has been successful in more than halving the rate of inflation. This means that pensioners' savings are all the more valuable and secure and that they are not frittered away, as was the case in the Labor years in the early 1970s when there was an extraordinary rate of inflation. I believe that it is right that the Fraser Government should continue to be so fully committed to this economic strategy which, by its record of achievement, assists pensioners. With regard to indexation, the reduction in the rate of inflation has directly given more value to the money that pensioners receive through the social security system. I should acknowledge the long and careful statement that was made by the Minister for Social Security this afternoon itemising the achievements of her Department and of the Government in a broad range of government measures in the welfare area. It is a record that should be supported and commended by the Australian people. 
I want to spend a few minutes examining the words used in the motion moved by  Senator Grimes.  The terms of the motion have not been referred to by Opposition speakers in the debate this afternoon. Rather, they have exhorted honourable senators on this side of the chamber in a woolly and caricaturing way, to be successful in keeping up the momentum of the Government. Some words used in the motion stand out in my mind. The motion states that the Government has somehow introduced punitive economic measures against the recipients of social security benefits and low income families. There is nothing punitive about the Government's decisions. Those who are receiving social security benefits have not been punished in any respect. Let us take the example that was most discussed by the Opposition speakers- 12 monthly indexation of pensions. Age pensioners, along with all taxpayers and all other areas of Government budgeting, have taken an equal share in the expenditure restraint. The decision has led to age pensioners forgoing less than $20m. This must be compared with the $3, 362. 8m which has been appropriated this financial year for aged persons assistance programs, which include pensions and allowances. This cut in expenditure represents half of one per cent of the Government's spending on assistance for the aged. Yet the Opposition places all the thrust of its argument upon this one example which amounts to one half of one per cent of the Government's spending on aged persons assistance programs. 
The Opposition, by the weakness of its argument, has only reinforced the excellent record of the Fraser Government in this area. I believe that the momentum of the Government's achievements will continue into the August Budget, not because of half-hearted urgings by the Opposition but rather by the responsible gathering of evidence and the arguments put forward by members of the Liberal and National Country Parties to Ministers of the Government to use in the formation of the Budget. I believe that the next step in the welfare areas will be for the Government to reintroduce six monthly indexation of pension rates. In the more prosperous climate of Australia's economic recovery and in the light of other factors, the reintroduction of six monthly indexation may be an option for the Government. The validity of the one example used by the Opposition evaporates entirely. I believe we should have every confidence that the Government will continue its excellent record of achievement. As 1 believe that this matter has been sufficiently aired in the Senate, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment and concerns the statements reported today of the newly appointed  Chairman  of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority,  Mr Higgs.  I say by way of preface that I welcome the appointment of such an experienced and good man to such a position. He is reported as saying that the Authority was trying to determine that part of the reef region which should be park and that part which does not need to be park. I ask: What are the Government's guidelines in the determination of the boundaries of the park and when is it expected that the park will be declared? 
I present the following petition from 122 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and concerns the persistent rumours, which I believe are grossly misinformed but which continue to circulate, about the reason for the Government's purchase of two Boeing 707 aircraft. I ask: What security risks would the travelling public of Australia and of other countries suffer if Ministers and prominent visitors to our country did not have access to special flights? Secondly, with regard to the cost of these aircraft, is it true that 80 per cent of their use will be by the Royal Australian Air Force in its normal and necessary transport activities? 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 

My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. It concerns reports, referred to already by  Senator Watson,  that Australia may soon face a shortage of refined petroleum products. I understand that this pessimistic assessment was given to Government representatives at a meeting of the Oil Industry Supply Committee in Sydney last week. Will there be a shortage of petrol this year? If so, is it true that any shortage will arise solely as a result of recent events in Iran? Finally, what plans has the Government developed to deal with this problem? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. Two months has now passed since the Williams Report on Education and Training was tabled in the Senate by the Government. Will the Government in this session of Parliament give a direct response to the recommendations made in the Williams report or, given the comprehensiveness of the matters considered in the report, will the Government's response be indirect and given over a much longer period? In particular, will the guidelines that the Minister will shortly announce for the education commissions be related explicitly to relevant areas of the findings of the Williams report? 
I present the following petition from 1 3 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to' obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is similar to questions asked today by  Senator Sim  and  Senator Puplick.  The Chinese Government has made horrific allegations that officials of the Vietnamese Government have extorted bribes from refugee groups and then have placed time bombs on the refugee boats, so that the boats, with their passengers, have been destroyed at sea. Moreover, the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has recently claimed that about 200,000 Vietnamese refugees have drowned while attempting to flee from Vietnam. I ask: What evidence has been available to the Government to assess these matters? If these reports are confirmed by the Government, what protests have been and will be made by the Australian Government to the Government of Vietnam? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer  to the  Australian Government's policy of advertising in overseas countries to attract a wide range of skilled tradesmen to migrate to Australia. In particular, I refer to a paper on this matter from West Germany, tabled in the Senate on Monday by  Senator Ryan.  What is the urgency for attracting such tradesmen to come to Australia? Why cannot such vacancies be filled by unemployed persons already in Australia? What steps can be and are being taken by the Government to train unemployed young people in these needed skills and trades? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment, concerns statements reported today by the head of the wildlife division of the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,  Mr Bill  Jordan, who is visiting Australia.  Mr Jordan  has said that Australia has become a leader in conservation due to its stance on whaling. My question relates mainly to the importation into Australia of seal products. Firstly, is it true that it is illegal for seals to be killed in Australia? Secondly, will the Minister consider a total ban on the importation of seal products? Thirdly, will the Government consider a ban on the importation of products from any endangered species in the world? 
-by leave-  Mr President,  I am troubled still that it is proposed that this be a closed matter. An honourable senator has made allegations, it appears, on the basis of very limited evidence. As a result of those statements, newspaper, radio and television reports have heightened rumours that have been circulating in the community to the great disadvantage of a member of parliament. Indeed, in the statement he just made,  Senator Cavanagh  alleged that many revelations are yet to be made. If the Press were to take up that statement, there could be a continuation of those stories in the media. The original allegation, which was based upon limited evidence, may be further compounded with a resultant reflection upon the Parliament as a whole and also upon individual members of parliament. 
I believe that the call for investigation of the aspect of privilege in this matter has not been satisfied by statements made in the Senate this afternoon. I believe that the requests for you to carry out what you regard as being the proper investigations into this matter should be complied with. I do not believe that this is a closed matter. I believe that if any honourable senator or honourable member makes such an allegation on the basis of limited and inaccurate evidence, there should be some redress for the offence. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 5 April 1979: 
What is the extent of funding by the Government through both the Minister's Department and the Department of Veterans' Affairs to each category of widows and their dependants. 
) What is the general justification for the higher rates of assistance provided through the Department of Veterans' Affairs. 
Was there ever any 'contract' or formal undertaking by former Australian Governments to assist the dependants of war servicemen in the ways they are now being assisted; if so, what were the undertakings. 
What is the particular justification of an 'Education Allowance' being provided through the Department of Veterans' Affairs which is not provided through the Minister's Department. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, relates to the excise on brandy and other Australian spirits. Will the Government be in a position before the end of this month to announce changes anticipated by wine and brandy growers and by many senators- the first concerning a reduction in the absolute level of excise, given the acknowledgment by the Treasurer of the severe shortfall in the effects of the amendment brought about in the last Budget, and the second concerning the differential in favour of Australian spirits being applied to the post-excise comparison of spirit prices so that the differential is very substantial rather than being the few cents to which the present application would lead? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the continuing high importance of the Government's policy and record towards the family. Can the Minister assure the Senate that in reaching taxation decisions in the forthcoming Budget the impact of these decisions on families, especially single income families with dependent children, will fully be taken into account? Should not tax be equitable in its effect upon a family whether the income of the family is derived from the direct earnings of one spouse or of both spouses? Moreover, should not tax be based on the principle of capacity to pay whereby the cost of supporting a dependent spouse and dependent children should be taken into account? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and concerns the increasingly inadequate case being made out for the establishment of the Casey UniversityAustralian Defence Force Academy- for the training of defence personnel. In the light of the findings of the Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training, chaired by Professor 
Williams, on the criteria forjudging the viability of establishing a tertiary education institution, is it now acknowledged by the Government that Casey University would not be viable? Moreover, does the Minister acknowledge the educational and personal advantages which would flow from defence trainees' inter-mixing on an integrated campus with students from other professions in the course of their studies? What is the Government's current position on Casey University? 
-Does the Minister for Education recall the claims by the Opposition spokesman on education,  Senator Button,  in the Senate on Monday and Tuesday this week regarding the level of Commonwealth outlays on education? He referred to a table that he had prepared. At the time,  Senator Button's  claims were disputed by  Senator Chaney  who undertook to provide more accurate information. Is the Minister now in a position to provide this information? Can he confirm that the dramatic turnaround in Commonwealth expenditure on education occurred in the 1975-76 Hayden Budget brought down by the Whitlam Labor Government, while the policies of the present Government in contrast show relative stability in funding levels and efficiency in administration? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. I note that, whilst the price of fuel is an important factor for Australian consumers, the supply of fuel is of greater priority. Can the Minister assure the Senate that petroleum products, especially aviation gas and diesel fuel for use in industry, will be in sufficient supply in the coming 12 months? 
I understand that, as expected, the South Australian Government has today resigned its term of office, making way for a Liberal victory at next month's State election. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, concerns the references made in the Senate during Question Time yesterday to the present Government's achievements in the areas of keeping down inflation, keeping down interest rates and, despite world oil costs, keeping down fuel prices in Australia. How does Australia's inflation rate compare with the inflation rates in  other countries? How do Australia's interest rates compare with interest rates overseas? How do Australia's petrol prices compare with petrol prices overseas? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. In June this year the Prime Minister announced the Government 's preliminary assessment of the inhumane and environmentally damaging aspects of the seal hunt in Canada, Norway and the Soviet Union and he proposed a total ban on all seal products imported into Australia, as well as a ban on the products of all other endangered species. This ban was referred to the Minister for Science and the Environment for investigation. I ask the Minister: Has he completed that investigation? Has the present ban on the importation of seal products been confirmed? Will the full assessment of the investigation soon be published? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and concerns allegations of interference with Aboriginal community decisions. Is it true that the Aboriginal community at Pipalyatjara is in the process of developing specific mining contracts for the extraction of chrysoprase from Mount Davies? Is it also true that the Pipalyatiara mining company is considering the merits of alternative contractsone proposed by a Hong Kong based buyer group and the other proposed by a South Australian mining group? Allegations have been made in South Australia that non-Aboriginal community advisers employed by the Pitjantjatjara Council and the Pipalyatjara Council have interfered with Aboriginal community decisions in these negotiations, overturning Aboriginal majority decisions which had opted for a contract with the South Australian based group. Is the process of determining such contracts in any way under the Minister's jurisdiction? To what extent does the Commonwealth Government fund the salaries of the employees of the councils mentioned? If the allegations of interference are sustained, what is the remedy for the Aboriginal people whose interests are directly affected? 
-The Senate is debating the Budget. I want to concentrate my remarks tonight on the way in which the people of South Australia have perceived the Federal Budget and also, to some extent, on the way in which in the current State election campaign the Labor Government has abused its responsibilities by trying to pass the buck to the Federal Budget for its deficiencies in government. That has been very much to its discredit and is dishonest. 
In speaking this year to the Budget, which is a good and responsible Budget, I am reminded of my comments in the Senate a year ago when I also spoke about my State of South Australia. Exactly 12 months ago- I believe these words are still very accurate for today- I said: 
South Australia is on edge at the moment. The future is uncertain. I find that, despite my natural sense of optimism, I have become increasingly angy that the foundations of our State's prosperity are in danger. 
The remedy I put forward then is the remedy that I put forward now. I continued: 
First and foremost, the State Labor Government in South Australia needs to be thrown out of office. Industry is turned off by the high-cost strategy of the socialist program. 
Some statistics published recently by the Australian Bureau of Statistics illustrate the point that I make. First of all, the retail industry- this is a current issue in South Australia- has become so alarmed at the declining retail sales that it has gone to great lengths to urge its own employees, indeed the whole State, to back the Liberal Opposition to become the government on Saturday. Retail sales in South Australia have dropped to an annual growth of 6.5 per cent, whereas in other mainland States they are at an average of about double that. South Australia's share of the new motor vehicle registrations has dropped to only 8. 1 1 per cent of the total Australian registrations. This can be compared with New South Wales, which has 36 per cent, and Queensland, which has 1 5 per cent. 
Another statistic is the fall in employment in South Australia. Since the 1977 State election employment in the private sector in South Australia has fallen by 5,800 people; it is the only mainland State to have had such a fall. In other States there has been an increase. In New South Wales there has been an increase of 27,000-odd. Another statistic that points to the distress and dilemma of South Australia is employment directly in manufacturing industry. In South Australia it has dropped by 17 per cent over the last five years, compared with drops in other States of a much smaller magnitude. In building industry over the last four years South Australia's share of new dwelling commencements has dropped to a shocking 6.2 per cent, whereas new dwelling commencements have been as high as 33 per cent in New South Wales, 1 1.9 per cent in Western Australia, 2 1.6 per cent in Queensland and 22 per cent in Victoria. What is happening to South Australia? Why is South Australia coming last in all the interstate comparisons? 
Perhaps the most distressing statistics are those related to industrial investment in Australia. For the coming two years only 1.5 per cent of all the investments that are being clearly foreseen throughout Australia will go ahead in South Australia yet South Australia is the State abundantly rich in natural gas, uranium, copper, iron and of every other kind of natural resource. What is going wrong with South Australia? My concern and anger, as was the case last year when I was first elected to the Senate, are about the marvellous potential of my home State being wasted and underdeveloped and the State becoming the poor State of Australia. 
When the Federal Budget was brought down one would have thought that it would have been entirely a matter for debate and discussion by the people of Australia through their representatives in the lower House and in the Senate. But in South Australia we found the Labor Premier, to build a smokescreen for him to try to pass the buck for these disasters in South Australia, calling an immediate election the very day after the Federal Budget was brought down. For months he had been banking upon an unpopular Budget, a Budget which he thought he could capitalise on, being brought down to enable him to win by using a smokescreen, by default, by passing the buck, sufficient election victory to give the Labor Government another three years in office. 
This ploy, this tactic by Labor in South Australia has fallen entirely flat because, as the people of South Australia have recognisedindeed, I believe as all the people of Australia have come to recognise- the Budget is good and responsible. The people of Australia have welcomed the announcement of the ending of the income tax surcharge from 1 December. They have welcomed the return of twice-yearly indexation of pensions and benefits, the wider eligibility for pensioner health benefit cards and, for small businesses, a very considerable expansion of the retention allowance- a rise from 60 per cent to 70 per cent. Additional help has been provided for the tourist industry. The Budget contains direct measures to encourage energy conservation. It has provided increased funds for defence, $2 15m in export incentives and $32m for industrial research. 
Whilst the Budget contains those positive initiatives to stimulate Australia, to bring equity to the social security area and to lower taxation in Australia from 1 December, the dimensions of the Budget are entirely responsible. The deficit has been brought down to only a little over $2 billion, a reduction of $ 1,285m on last year's figure. In other terms, it is a reduction from 3.4 per cent of gross domestic product to only 1.9 per cent of gross domestic product. So the Government's strategy to decrease the rate of inflation is still a paramount thrust in its overall economic strategy. It is a good Budget, a responsible Budget, and its main features, which I have summarised, have led the South Australian people to support it. As a consequence, the very illconceived tactics of the Labor machine in South Australia to force a State election on the issue of the Budget is falling flat. 
I mention also, in terms of the Budget being responsible, that Budget outlays for government expenditure in the period of the Fraser Government have been increased, on average, by one per cent per year, whereas in the Whitlam years Budget outlays for government expenditure increased by 10 10 1/2 per cent, which represents an enormous growth in big government and government expenditure. In the three years leading up to the period of the Whitlam Government, Budget outlays for government expenditure increased at a normal rate of 4% per cent. Our outlays in the past three years increased by an average of only one per cent per annum because of the degree of responsibility which the Fraser Government has taken on to win back the wild seeds of disorder which were sown during the period of the Commonwealth Labor Government. Madam Acting  Deputy President,  recently I asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  a question concerning the overall management by the Fraser Government of inflation, interest rates and fuel prices. 

 Senator Carrick replied to my question in the Senate on 29 August. I seek leave to have a copy of my question and  Senator Carrick  's answer incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

INFLATION 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, concerns the references made in the Senate during Question Time yesterday to the present  Gorvernmen's  achievements in the areas of keeping down inflation, keeping down interest rates and, despite world oil costs, keeping down fuel prices in Australia. How does Australia 's inflation rate compare with the inflation rates in other countries? How do Australia's interest rates compare with interest rates overseas? How do Australia's petrol prices compare with petrol prices overseas? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer and concerns Commonwealth grants to South Australia for transport or, indeed, grants for other purposes. I note on this topic the enormous inconvenience and annoyance felt by the public in Adelaide arising from this week's widening and irresponsible union imposed bus strike. Given the generous financial assistance for urban transport that the Commonwealth Government gives to South Australia and other States, can the Commonwealth guarantee that such funds will not be used for environmentally damaging and unnecessarily expensive and grandiose schemes such as the North-East Area Public Transport Review which is proposed by the South Australian Labor Government and which would damage the approaches to the city, confuse Adelaide suburban roads and destroy the Torrens River Valley? 
I ask the Leader of the Government a question similar to the one raised by  Senator Young.  It follows the landslide swing to the Liberal Party's policies in South Australia and the clear and positive change of direction that this means especially towards policies to develop the State. In the light of the Prime Minister's meeting with  Mr David  Tonkin in Adelaide, will the Commonwealth Government give every assistance to the South Australian Government in its determination to proceed immediately with the development of mining at Roxby Downs? 
I present the following petition from 52 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members  of  the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition  of  the undersigned citizensof Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on the 10th December 1948, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted and proclaimed the Universal Declarationof Human Rights which declares that, Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in the Declaration. . . . ' (Article 2) that"Everyone has the right to take part in the governmentof his country, directly or through freely chosen representatives . . . The willof the people shall be the basisof the authorityof government; this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal sufferage and shall be held by secret vote or equivalent free voting procedures. ' (Article 21(1) and ( 3 ). ) 
Electionsfor Senators meet all requirements except one. Senators are elected periodically, by secret ballot, with universal franchise, and the quota-preferential methodof proportional representation ensures that the vote values within states are equal as nearly as can be. 
However the provisionof the Electoral Act that compels voters to show preferences for all candidates  on  the ballot paper interferes with the free expressionof the willof the voters, and is unjust. 
Australia, as a Member Stateof the United Nations, is pledged to achieve observanceof Human Rights and Freedoms. 
We, the undersigned citizensof Australia, therefore humbly pray that the Senate will fulfil the pledgeof a Member Stateof the United Nations and take steps to remove the compulsion from the Electoral Act in order to allow freedomof expression Tor everyone who has the right to vote for Senators. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and concerns youth unemployment and the transition by young people from school to work. Is the Government satisfied that the manpower statistics gathered by government departments give a clear picture for planning to solve youth unemployment problems? I am aware of the Department of Social Security's quarterly survey of unemployment benefit recipients and of sample surveys within the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs, but I am not satisfied that sufficient manpower statistics are being gathered by the Government to answer the question which is very much in the public mind of who exactly the unemployed are. I urge the Government to improve vastly the range of statistics. What assurance can the Minister give that sufficient manpower statistics are being gathered by the Government? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs and concerns the desperate situation in Kampuchea where famine and disease threaten hundreds of thousands- even millions- of the civilian population. I preface my question by stating briefly that last week I was able to visit Kampuchean refugee areas on the border of Thailand. What amounts of food and medical supplies given in aid by the Australian Government have already reached the suffering people of Kampuchea? What proportion of Australian aid is going via Phnom Penh and what proportion via Thai border towns such as Aranyaprathet? Finally, given the brutal and ruthless inhumanity of both sides in this communist civil war, how can the Australian people be assured that aid, government or nongovernment, actually reaches the civilian population in greatest need? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and concerns current delays in the Mereenie oil field negotiations which the Magellan Petroleum Co. claims have been caused by the Central Land Council seeking appeal procedures under the Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. I ask the Minister: Is it true that the Aboriginal owners of the land have, by their actions or attitudes, caused the delay in the Mereenie development, or has the delay been caused by the company? Has the Central Land Council called for the appointment of an arbitrator, as provided for under the Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act? If so, when will the Minister determine the appointment? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs and concerns aid to Kampuchea. Is the Minister aware that some families in Adelaide have decided to collect food, such as sugar, milk powder and other supplies, to assist the relief effort in Kampuchea and that they are doing so because they feel that actual cartons of food collected here are more physically visible than money contributions? Is the Minister also aware that, having collected quantities of food, these families now have no way of getting it to Kampuchea and have been unable to get advice on where to go with their cartons of food? Can the Minister advise these people and other Australians willing and eager to collect aid what they should do best to assist the relief effort? Is it always true that contributions of money are more helpful than donations of food or medical supplies? If so, to whom should these donations be made? Finally, I am aware from this morning's newspapers that in the past week or two $350,000 has been given by Australian families to a Kampuchean aid committee's fund target of $2m authorised by the highly reputable Australian Council for the Overseas Aid. In this light, will the Government consider accrediting a single agency or selecting a number of agencies to act in an integrated way for relief aid to Kampuchea? 
-I am entirely satisfied with the enlightenment and explanation provided by the Minister in relation to sub-section (7) of proposed new section 69a. I merely rise to note that fact because  Senator Cavanagh  persists in his comments on that subsection. Clearly, in this matter two cases are outlined in which no compensation is paid: After the lapse of 12 months, when either notice has been given or goods have been destroyed. Clearly, that 12 month period is entirely sufficient for the workings of the Bill. I have gained that knowledge from the enlightened answer of the Minister and perhaps I had been distracted by paying attention too carefully to  Senator Cavanagh  's query on the matter. I rose to speak only to say that I find no objection to the entire Bill. 
-The Quarantine Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979 seeks to amend the Quarantine Act 1908. All honourable senators who have preceded me in this debate have supported the Bill and commend the need for such revisions to our quarantine procedures in Australia. I also support the Bill, along with  Senator Coleman,  who preceded me in the debate. I feel that this Bill goes only some small way towards giving greater attention to erecting that secure quarantine barrier which we need and which is so important to Australia.  Senator Coleman  has referred particularly to one individual who has concern for quarantine in Australia. Let it be said that there have been hundreds of people in Australia who have had a most conscientious and careful concern for quarantine in this country. Sometimes when one individual is picked out, particularly a controversial personsome would describe him as a purist- it is too easy to make a martyr of him and to overlook the many hundreds of conscientious public servants who have been careful in maintaining our quarantine barriers. Putting all that aside, there is a very real need to press on from this Bill, which really only amends the Quarantine Act 1 908 in three or four minor but significant ways, to a total revision of the Bill. I believe that the Quarantine Act needs to be revised completely and rewritten, and that there needs to be a public awareness campaign sponsored by the Government in order to bring before the public the need for realistic quarantine. 
There is an enormous contrast in Australia between the huge lack of public awareness of quarantine and those leaders of industry in every primary industry in our country who are so careful, well informed and aware of the grave dangers should our quarantine barriers lapse. As I see it, there has been an enormous shift throughout this century in relation to our perspective of quarantine, from an emphasis on human health to matters of animal and plant quarantine. The Act that it is proposed to amend by this Bill was first passed in 1908 and the parlance of the Act is in terms of human health matters, human quarantine. Right from the beginning the Department concerned with the question of quarantine has been the Department of Health, and the Minister responsible for quarantine has been the Minister for Health. This follows this early emphasis upon human health. But there has been a tremendous change towards plant and animal quarantine, those aspects involving the lion's share of quarantine activities in Australia. This Bill is symbolic of this change. It is the first stage of what I believe to be a major reflection of this kind of change in an Act of Parliament. 
The Bill sees one section of the principal Act repealed, that is, the section which requires persons to report any illness suffered by them within 14 days of entering Australia. The Bill extends the powers of quarantine officers to enable them to search baggage immediately, without refer*ence to Customs officers, and to go beyond the premises of the immediate port of entry to any place at which any material newly arrived from overseas may be found, with an appropriate, fair and reasonable warrant to inspect newly arrived material. With these new powers that are given by the Bill there is an emphasis upon plant and animal quarantine. I believe that no more than a very small proportion of the Australian public is really aware of the dangers of screw worm in the north of our country, or realise how this could ravage our herds of cattle. People are not aware of the enormous risk from foot and mouth diseased areas only hundreds of miles to the north in Malaysia and many other countries. If this disease were to gain any foothold in Australia the consequences would be catastrophic. 
Several years ago there was a bluetongue scare which did alert the public by way of sensational headlines, with pictures of sheep suffering the full symptoms of the disease. People became overly excited and feared that this was actually happening in Australia. In fact, the bluetongue scare was just that- a scare. The disease was never found in any animal in Australia. It was discovered as a virus within an insect which was taken during the conduct of a monitoring scheme in the Northern Territory. Nevertheless, it had the good effect of stirring many people in government, in the departments concerned and in industry, to an awareness of the terrible consequences should the incidence of bluetongue be extended from being found in a mere single insect to the point where it was actually having some effect upon this country. Lucerne aphids have devastated lucerne crops in many areas of Australia. This has arisen by way of some unforeseen lapse in quarantine whereby this aphid has got in and destroyed lucerne worth millions of dollars, a loss of great value to our country. 

 Senator Grimes has already spoken at some length of the enormous risks of rabies. As each month goes by we are seeing a spread of rabies across Europe to the border of England. The British Channel has not been breached recently, but the disease poses an enormous risk for the United Kingdom. If it were to come to Australia, as has been mentioned already in this debate it could very quickly be contacted not only by our domestic animals but also by our feral animals, which would make it almost impossible to eradicate. Then what would be the risk to every man, woman and child in Australia. The poultry industry fears any outbreak of Newcastle disease, and our very exacting total ban upon the importation of eggs or fowl gives some indication of the enormous consequences should that quarantine barrier lapse. The rice industry has very real fears of a disease being introduced from exotic varieties of rice which are popular with a minority of people in Australia. From time to time stories are published of what might happen to our grain if the khapra beetle were introduced, or what might happen to our timber industry if a further outbreak of the sirex wasp occurred. These are diseases which are endemic in many parts of the world but which are exotic to Australia. We must continue to exercise the greatest vigilance to keep them out. Our primary industries, let alone the health of the Australian people, are of enormous consequence to our country. 
Despite this shift of emphasis in all the instances that I have mentioned, to animal and plant disease rather than human health quarantine, we have not yet seen a reflection of the change in the legislation which has passed through the Parliament and which guides the maintenance of quarantine procedure by the Government. I believe that this small beginning towards amending the Quarantine Act should be followed up vigilantly by the Government, leading to a wholesale reconsideration of the entire Act, and that the whole Act should be rewritten in terms of the next several decades, with emphasis directed almost totally towards plant and animal quarantine. 
I welcome the power that this Bill will give to quarantine officers to take steps by their own initiative to search any baggage which they might reasonably suspect to be at risk. Throughout the history of our country this power has never been in the hands of quarantine officers. They have relied upon the powers given to Customs officers. It seems incredible that a quarantine officer cannot follow up the real evidence he has and search and eliminate material that is at risk even when a prima facie case can be clearly established that certain goods, having once passed through a port of entry, have gone to some point in the city or the country. This Bill will make sure that there is such a power both at the time of entry with the power to search and later by way of warrant to enter and to search any premises. 
The other significant section of the Bill concerns compensation for destroyed goods. I believe that by spelling out so carefully and so justly the ability for full compensation to be provided at market value for any destroyed stock or property, as this Bill does, we will be giving to the public confidence and a basis for cooperation, which are entirely necessary for the best eradication of any outbreak of exotic disease. This is only one small step towards solving the problem. I am not convinced that there are well developed contingency plans in other than perhaps the poultry industry for the eradication of an exotic disease outbreak. The matter is complicated by some initiative in this area being under State control and some under federal control. Some of it is directed towards the elimination of a disease within Australia- domestic to Australia- and some of it is directed towards eliminating a disease which is newly arrived and exotic. I have high respect for the officers of the Department of Health who are pressing ahead with negotiations and discussions with industry leaders to develop such contingency plans, but the plans are not fully and publicly able to be circulated in every industry. I believe that this means that the goal we have before us of trying to win the greatest public confidence and cooperation has not been reached. Whilst the Bills sets out a clear basis for compensation, I believe that it should be only the beginning of a much more wide sweeping approach to the whole question of contingency and compensation plans. 
In terms of the importance of quarantine to our country, most Australians would be very surprised to know that the Budget allocation for quarantine is very low. It is only about $8m. Half of that amount is regained by quarantine charges, so that the net cost to the taxpayer- the government purse- of maintaining our quarantine procedures is only about $4m a year. This is a tiny insurance policy against the horrors at which I have hinted and which can be described in much fuller terms. I believe that we should press on not only with this minor amendment Bill but also with a complete rewriting of the Act and a much greater commitment of funds to the important task of maintaining the quarantine barriers in Australia. I support the Bill. 
-I have listened carefully to  Senator Cavanagh  's analysis of a number of clauses in the Bill. The matter that I too would like the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  to answer relates to clause 6 which proposes to insert new section 69A(7) which states that an owner is not entitled to compensation if, in the case of his not being notified by the quarantine officer of the destruction of goods, the goods have been destroyed. That is a puzzle to me. I join  Senator Cavanagh  in asking the Minister for an explanation of that. But I am not as moved by  Senator Cavanagh  's argument with regard to the other matters which he has raised. I acknowledge his principal point which is that in clause 6 the word 'may' occurs in a crucial position in proposed new section 69A ( 1 ) whereby there is a discretion remaining with the Minister. I believe that a good government and a good Minister, led by a department with the record that the Department of Health has, will give every consideration, as the Bill allows, to what is appropriate. So I am not objecting to a discretion that remains with a good Minister. The only question which remains in my mind is the one concerning the situation that when goods are destroyed compensation cannot be paid. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. It concerns the fishing agreement which is being concluded today between the Australian Government and Japan and which gives Japanese fishing vessels access to waters within the 200-mile fishing zone. I understand that the agreement improves the monitoring and restraints that the fishermen will have in the future. I am aware of the Minister's replies to questions put to him in the other place yesterday. I ask the Minister. What are the facts surrounding these proposals? Does the agreement give exclusive access to Japanese fishermen? How many other such agreements are being negotiated with other countries? In the Japanese agreement and in any other agreement is there provision for full access to these fishing areas by Australian fishermen? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development and is asked in the context of this week's renewed energy crisis following world oil price rises. Is it true that the United Kingdom has announced this week plans to build 20 new nuclear reactors and that this is part of a pattern of new reactors being built in over 25 countries? Is it also true that updated assessments show that world stocks of uranium may in fact run out sooner than world stocks of oil? What is the Australian Government's estimate of the world market for uranium, and what are the implications for Australian uranium sales? Also, however difficult this may be, what steps can the Government take in a practical way to win a more bipartisan and responsible policy approach in this Parliament to the mining, milling and selling of uranium in order to give firmer confidence to the industry and to Australia's international trade relations? 
I present the following petition from 6 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Red Army Choir is a military propaganda unit glorifying the Soviet regime which is still hostile to the democratic way of life. The Red Army is the main instrument in keeping formerly free people under subjugation, and its presence enables blatant violations of Human Rights to be perpetrated. The support, therefore, of such instruments of a totalitarian regime can only harm the development of free and liberal thought under it. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the Australian Government assert its support for the aspirations of subjugated people by denying entry into this country to the Red Army Choir. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 6 March 1979: 
1 ) What proportion of Australia 's energy requirements is met by: (a) petrol; (b) natural gas: (c) black coal; (d) brown coal; (e) hydro-electricity; (f) wood and bagasse; (g) diesel oils: (h) fuel oil; (i) other petroleum products; and (j) other sources. 
How have these percentages varied during the period from 1969 to 1978. 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs to a television news film this week which showed a planeload of food leaving Melbourne for Kampuchea. In the film there were many sacks marked 'white refined sugar'. Many Australians hold the view that white refined sugar has very low nutrition value. Why then is white sugar being sent by Australia to Kampuchea? Is it true that sugar is one ingredient of a wellattested gruel of high food value for malnourished people? Can the people of Australia who are so concerned to assist the people of Kampuchea be reassured of a sound nutritional basis for sending sugar in this way? 
I support the two Bills which are being debated cognately. I am happy that all of those honourable senators who preceded me in this debate have displayed their utmost support for the overseas student program in Australia. Since the beginning of the Colombo Plan in 195 1 when we began a sponsored overseas student program to Australia to bring students to our universities and later to our colleges and every area of educational support in Australia, a good deal of benefit has been given by Australia to the countries in our region. Through training programs for those students who come to be among us all in the Australian community we achieved a better understanding of each other. All of those who have participated in this debate strongly support the continuation on a healthy basis of the overseas student program. Certainly I am confident that the Australian Government through this legislation and other measures it is considering at this time wishes to strengthen our good relations with the countries in our region, particularly the countries of Asia and of the Pacific and also all the countries from which students come to our colleges and universities. I was surprised by the rhetoric in the speech by  Senator Tate.  It seems as though in his attempt to find some weakness in the Bill he was overcome and he abandoned his normal moderate language. However, I applaud  Senator Tate  and those other speakers who do support a healthy and flourishing overseas student program. 
There are about 11,500 overseas students in Australia. Some 3,000 of these students are sponsored overseas students gaining scholarships, such as the Colombo Plan scholarship, from the Australian Government or other agencies. There are 8,500 students- the greater majority- who are private overseas students who come by their own means to enter our universities, colleges and a great variety of teaching institutions. It is proposed that a relatively small fee be asked of those private overseas students to contribute to the cost of that education. That takes the form of a charge levied at the time of gaining a visa or an entry permit to study in Australia or at the time of re-enrolment for another year of study. The amount that is to be paid by these students is less than $2,500 in any one year and for threequarters of the students who pay the charge it will amount to $1,500. At the moment the average cost of a university place is estimated to be $5,500 and a place in a college of advanced education $4,000. The actual tuition cost for a private overseas student in Australia far exceeds the charge that this Bill would levy. The number of students who will pay this - 
My question is directed to the Minster representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What is now the full extent of Australian Government aid to Kampuchea? On the basis of the surveillance of Government officials accompanying aid nights and other reports, is the Government satisfied that the food and medical supplies given by Australia are reaching those in greatest need? Finally, how many Kampuchean refugees this month have fled to Thailand and what proportion of Australian aid relative to the aid provided via Phnom Penh is now being directed to helping them? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development the following question, without notice, on 24 May 1979: 
Reports have been referred to already by  Senator Watson  that Australia may soon face a shortage of refined petroleum products. I understand that this pessimistic assessment was given to Government representatives at a meeting of the Oil Industry Supply Committee in Sydney last week. Will there be a shortage of petrol this year? If so, is it possible to say that in the development plans of the Government no rationing is foreseeable for Australia this year? 
asked the Leader of the Government the following question, without notice, on 18 September 1979: 
I ask the Leader of the Government a question similar to the one raised by  Senator Young.  It follows the landslide swing to the Liberal Party's policies in South Australia and the clear and positive change of direction that this means especially towards policies to develop the State. In the light of the Prime Minister's meeting with  Mr David  Tonkin in Adelaide, will the Commonwealth Government give every assistance to the South Australian Government in its determination to proceed immediately with the development of mining at Roxby Downs? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs and concerns the latest wave of madness and anarchy in Iran. How many staff members are there in the Australian Embassy in Iran? How many Australian citizens continue to live and work in Iran? Has the Australian Government developed clear contingency plans for their safety in any eventuality in Iran? 
Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware of a Press statement issued by the Executive of the National Aboriginal Conference concerning an agreement between the Government and Aboriginal people? If so, does he consider that the statement signifies any change in the National Aboriginal Conference 's approach to this issue? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, concerns Vietnamese refugees. Has the Australian Government established a procedure whereby persons in Vietnam may, through ordinary intergovernment channels, be approved for migration to Australia? I particularly ask concerning the reuniting of Vietnamese families when a member of the family is already in Australia. 
I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs why the titles to Aboriginal reserve land in the Northern Territory, which were presented to Aboriginal land trusts in September last year, have not yet been registered by the Northern Territory Government. Also, is the Minister aware that Aboriginals are denying European residents of the Gove Peninsula road access across Arnhem Land? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the KGB spy affair in the United Kingdom which is centred on Anthony Blunt and which has followed the publication of Andrew Boyle's book  The Climate of Treason.  Is the Minister aware that the author, Boyle, claims that Blunt 's confession to British intelligence, otherwise claimed to be in 1964, was made as early .as 1957 and that Blunt 's exposure- to quote Boyle- 'may have come from a defector'? I ask the Minister: Was Petrov that defector? Noting that the Petrov affair blew up in Australia in April 1954 and that it is acknowledged that Petrov revealed to the Australian authorities a wide range of Soviet intelligence material including names of persons involved in espionage in other countries, I ask: Did Petrov name Blunt? Did Australia pass this information to the United Kingdom authorities? If so, to which specific authorities? 
-by leave- I table the report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to the Second General Assembly of the Association of South East Asian Nations Inter-Parliamentary Organisation at Bangkok, September-October 1979. 1 seek leave to have a statement relating to the report incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

The Australian Observer Delegation consisted of three Parliamentarians,  Mr J.  J. Carlton, M.P. (Leader),  Hon.  L. F. Bowen, M.P. and  Senator B.  C. Teague. This was the first occasion of such Australian participation and in the light of its very real success in Bangkok such participation from all points of view should be a continuing regular feature of AIPO in the years ahead. 
Not surprisingly, with a war in progress in Kampuchea only 300 kilometres from the conference room, and the threat of a further influx of Khmer Rouge refugees into Thailand as soon as the rains stopped later in October, the issue of 'illegal immigrants' occupied the minds- of delegates above all else. Accordingly, in the Joint Communique adopted and issued by the Assembly major stress was placed on the following resolutions: 
The AIPO Second General Assembly deplored the continued occupation of Kampuchea by Vietnamese armed forces. It noted with grave concern that repeated efforts by the ASEAN states and other members of the international community to obtain the withdrawal of Vietnamese armed forces from Kampuchea and to allow the Kampuchean people to exercise their right to self-determination have so far proved to be of no avail. On the contrary, there are strong indications that further massive Vietnamese military build-up in Kampuchea is preparatory to a new major offensive after the rainy season. 
The General Assembly also noted reports that widespread famine has broken out in Kampuchea and that the entire Kampuchean people is threatened with extinction through starvation and diseases. A quarter of a million people may be forced to flee into Thailand within the next six months, in search of food, medical supplies and safety from the fighting in their country unless something is done immediately to end the conflict there. Moreover, the conflict in Kampuchea may spill over into the ASEAN region, in particular Thailand, and it may draw foreign forces into direct armed confrontation with Thailand. 
In the light of this review, the AIPO General Assembly decided on the following: 
ASEAN requests resettlement countries to increase and hasten the intake of the refugees and illegal immigrants from Vietnam, Kampuchea and Laos who have been provided temporary asylum in Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Philippines and Singapore; 
ASEAN is determined to continue to act collectively and in unison in order to ensure the peace and stability of the ASEAN region; 
ASEAN reaffirms the right of the Kampuchean people to self-determination and calls upon the Government of Vietnam to respond favourably to world opinion by immediately withdrawing all its forces from Kampuchea; 
ASEAN further calls upon all countries of the world, directly and/or through the United Nations (UN), to use political, economic and other means to exert greater pressure on Vietnam in order to obtain the immediate withdrawal of its forces from Kampuchea; 
ASEAN pledges its firm support and solidarity with the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Thai people in meeting the threat to their security and in the preservation of their independence, national sovereignty and territorial integrity; 
ASEAN invites all governments and agencies that are willing to offer aid to the famine and disease-stricken Kampuchean people to channel such aid through the Thai Government in order to ensure that it reaches the starving and suffering civilians; and 
ASEAN calls on the United Nations to initiate effort to update the International Convention Regulating the Status of Refugees in the light of the recent developments in South East Asia. 
There is no doubt that the attendance of an Australian observer delegation at the AIPO General Assembly was welcomed by all the delegations present, and that it contributed to a further strengthening of relationships with our ASEAN neighbours. Every opportunity was provided by our hosts, the Thais, to enable us to mingle informally with delegates as well as to occupy a prominent position at the formal sessions of the Assembly. We were also introduced to senior figures in the Thai Government and military establishment, who generously assisted in making arrangements for us to visit the border town of Aranypathet and the refugee camp in that area. 
The atmosphere was one of friendship and warm hospitality towards Australia, as well as openness of discussion on a wide range of topics of mutual interest. The delegation is unanimous in recommending the value of this kind of contact with our ASEAN neighbours, and suggests that considerable effort be applied to ensuring the success of the visit of the ASEAN delegation in March 1980. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What is the Australian Government's assessment of the likelihood of China's again attacking Vietnam, possibly through Laos and Kampuchea? In the early weeks of this year the Australian Government accurately predicted the invasion by China of Vietnam- the so-called first lesson. China has been threatening a second lesson with regard to the Vietnamese attack on the Pol Pot forces in Kampuchea. The implications of such a war are severe. What is the Government's assessment of the situation there now? 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 

