Did the Minister for Minerals and Energy suggest in Adelaide on 13 May that the gas reserves of the Cooper Basin which are to serve both South Australia and New South Wales could be severely depleted, if not exhausted, within 5 years? If this is correct, how can the Minister justify, in view of the fact that funds are not available for preschool education, the expenditure of some $1 65m to$200m of taxpayers' money on a Cooper Basin-Sydney pipeline when a pipeline from Bass Strait to Sydney, with links to Wollongong, Newcastle and Canberra, would cost approximately $120m and give those cities a guaranteed supply from known reserves for at least 20 years? Has this alternative been examined by the Government? If so. why was it rejected? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
In view of recent reports that Australia's recognition of the People's Republic of North Korea is imminent, will the Minister advise whether the governments of the following countries were consulted on this matter: Japan, South Korea, the Philippines, Malaysia, Singapore and the United States of America. 
If they were consulted, what has been the reaction in each case to Australia's proposed action. 
Will the Minister provide the reasons why it is in Australia's interest at this time to negotiate the question of diplomatic recognition with the North Korean authorities. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I rise on this occasion to make my maiden speech as the new member for Bradfield, the electorate which gave the present Government at the last election its lowest vote in Australia. In recent years I have had  the  pleasure of representing Australia overseas and I have been given the honour by the people of Bradfield to represent their interests in this Parliament. I should like to congratulate, through you, the  Speaker  upon his re-election to the highest office that this House can confer upon a member. I should also take this opportunity to thank the officers and staff who have done so much to help me settle into the environment of Parliament. 
As members of this House will be aware, I have succeeded  Mr Harry  Turner who, in 22 years of service as a member of the House of Representatives, established for himself a niche in Australian parliamentary history. Those who know him would, I am sure, agree with me that he brought to this Parliament a sense of values and a sense of history which are essential if the leaders of the nation are to bring to their deliberations the depth of understanding and wisdom so essential in difficult times such as these. In the service of my electorate and my country, I share with him a deep respect for the institution of Parliament and for the democratic traditions which this country has been fortunate enough to inherit. Australia, and indeed the world, is going through a period of great social and economic change. There is a tendency in politics, I regret, as well as in other areas of human endeavour, for people to fear the future while looking back with a sense of nostalgia to the past. Despite this human weakness, the criteria for progress and for change must be satisfied. 
In the past 50 years social and economic change of rapid and vast proportions has been a common experience of mankind. Human society has moved inexorably forward in its desire for knowledge and for its application in the service of mankind. We have been forced to absorb change often with a speed that has shocked the individual's capacity to appreciate the need for it. Regrettably in times of economic crisis there has been a tendency for socialist governments to allow their idealogical commitments to inhibit rational and objective analysis of changing circumstances. To continue along this path is to court major economic disruption and, at the worst, disaster. I draw the attention of this House in particular to the Government's failure to appreciate in depth the economic environment in which we must live and work. It has become evident to the majority of Australians in the last few weeks that those who control our economic destiny are still trying to apply criteria evolved some thirty or forty years ago to overcome the economic and social problems of today. The solutions cannot be found on the basis of past precedent. We are faced with the problem of inflation to an extent unknown before.  Despite this, the Government's ideological commitment remains to change Australia from a pluralistic free enterprise system to one espousing a substantial degree of monolithic public ownership and the management of the nation's resources. 
The theories of Keynes helped lift the world out of the great depression by solving the major problems of unemployment and have assisted developed economies to maintain a high degree of activity freed from the periodic economic crises which beset them during the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Unfortunately so little attention is being given today to history and even less to economic history that people have forgotten that theories which were applied to overcome specific situations in the past cannot be used under conditions with different characteristics. Our economic managers, both the present Government and their advisers, have for too long persisted in the belief that unmodified and outdated policies will ultimately succeed even though the problems we are trying to overcome are not those for which Keynes pro- pounded his theories. Keynes himself appreciated this historic weakness of mankind, this tendency to look back and not forward, when he said that indeed economic problems could be solved in the long term by using classical economic doctrines but that in the long term we will all be dead. It would not be an extreme statement to say that the present government's management of the economy, since it came into office in December 1972, has failed. Much has been said by Ministers about how they inherited a situation of excess liquidity in the economy. What they have never attempted to answer is that 12 months later the level of liquidity had expanded even further. Although it was obvious in 1973 that the economy was gravely overheated no meaningful policies were introduced and it was not until September 1973 that the Government decided to use monetary and interest policy, currency appreciation and tariff reductions, to control an already alarming inflationary trend. These policies enabled the Government to end the 1973-74 financial year with a deficit of approximately $400m less than budgeted for. This is hardly surprising as taxation receipts were $500m above the Budget estimate. 
In this context it should be noted that in 1973 average earnings increased by 15 per cent but average income tax increased by 34 per cent. Despite this, the Government has refused to update the old tax schedules which contain a built-in inflationary factor and thus did nothing to reduce the rapidly inflationary wages spiral. The Government's policy of currency revaluation upwards combined with the requirement to place 33i per cent of all loans raised overseas with the Reserve Bank at no interest, effectively tied up the flow of overseas capital to Australian companies but did little to prevent overseas based companies from obtaining adequate funds, regardless of whether they were to be used for speculation or for sensible economic purposes. In July 1973 the Government decided to reduce tariffs on all imported commodities by 25 per cent on existing rates of duties based on the admirable theory that reduced tariffs would improve the domestic allocation of resources, help mop up excess consumer demand, and curb the upward pressure of demand on prices. This did not occur. There have been no appreciable price reductions and overseas competition has seriously jeopardised a number of Australian industries. This policy also undoubtedly contributed, along with a fall in base metal prices overseas, and falls in our other major export items, towards Australia's current deficit in the current account which, if not halted very soon, could lead to a currency devaluation in the foreseeable future and an application of quantitative import restrictions. 
Last week the members of this House were witness to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  making a statement on inflation and announcing government policy initiatives which were ostensibly directed towards restraining demand in the economy. Within a matter of hours we were also witness to the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  informing us that in fact the Government's initiatives were not anti-inflationary. The people of this country have been subject to a plethora of quasieconomic theories from various Government Ministers who hope that they can be Australia's Moses to lead us out of the economic desert which has been of their own making. 
I wish on this occasion to make a few more general observations on the economy in an attempt to encourage thinking people to see our inflationary situation from a different perspective. All are agreed that the seeds of inflation lie in the fact that at any time there is excess demand in relation to the availability of supplies. I submit that it is the primary responsibility of Government to ensure the implementation of policies which overcome basic shortages throughout the economy. This cannot be achieved by simply preventing demand from being satisfied by the application of fiscal measures, but rather by ensuring that both employees and employers are encouraged through specific government policies to increase production and productivity in the economy. For this reason I call into question policies which are based on the imperfect assumption that steep increases in interest rates will reduce aggregate demands. In fact there is evidence to suggest that high interest rates act as a stimulant for further increases in costs, especially for consumption goods and obviously increase costs of production and act as a stimulant for further increases in wage demands. There can be no doubt that the use by the Government of liquidity and interest policies in the last 20 months has done nothing to encourage aggregate production to overcome growing aggregate demands. These will continue to act as a disincentive to productive investment and lay the seeds for further inflationary spirals in the future. The Government is persisting with policies which reduce private investment in favour of government investment, most of which does nothing to meet aggregate demands and merely contributes to and does not reduce the existing rate of inflation. 
The introduction of disincentives, such as the removal of investment allowances by the Government in the 1973-74 Budget, did nothing to increase production in those sectors where demand has outstripped supply but has merely intensified the imbalance between supply and demand, and added to the already depressing mood of uncertainty felt throughout the Australian economy. One of the primary causes of the domestic inflation in Australia has not only been the Government's misjudgment but its failure to encourage further investment in the productive sector at a time when the Government's budgetary and welfare policies are injecting excess liquidity into the economy. The Government's spending decisions in early 1973, for example, increased the domestic deficit from the budgeted $60m to $215m. In the last 6 months of 1973, when the economy was under demand pressure, the Government's budget deficit was almost $2,000m. There is no way that an economy can continue to absorb such stimulus, particularly when there is no encouragement for increased supplies and productivity. 
It must be remembered that the classical economic theories of men like Mill, Ricardo and Bentham failed to solve the problems of the great depression. Similarly today the use of Keynesian economic concepts will not, in existing circumstances, solve our problem which bear no relationship to those experienced in the 1930s. We do not have chronic unemployment in developed economies, the demoralising dole queues of the 1930s and a disastrous slowing down of aggregate demand which were symptoms of the great depression. Today we see almost the exact opposite. A constant state of more or less full employment has built up consumer expectations and consequently a fairly constant excess demand situation. Consequently economic theories and the attitudes of economists buried in the past cannot be expected to solve our problems. 
In the political environment of Australia severe unemployment is simply not an acceptable political response to inflation. The 
Liberal party has made it clear that we should look elsewhere for the answers to our problems. The solution to our crisis must lie in the Government instituting policies which encourage increased production while applying selective controls to dampen down excess demand. Taxation incentives should be used to encourage increased production where it is required. Workers and employers alike must be given incentives to increase productivity and be encouraged to develop their enterprise. Reduced interest rates combined with cuts in personal income tax and company tax, inducements for people to do overtime, or have second jobs, together with concessions for productive investment in plant and machinery will undoubtedly increase production and productivity and thus reduce the tendency for increased wage demands which under present circumstances must always include a substantial component to cover increased taxation as well as anticipated inflation. The people of Australia have, every right regardless of whether they are workers, employers or pensioners to have the real benefit of income which is based upon real purchasing power. 
The chronic instability which is found in developed countries is to a large degree due to the persistent growth in community expectations for government services which in turn add to an increased aggregate demand throughout the community. This has resulted in the spreading over a relatively stable productive base of an enormously expanding spectrum of community wants and needs. Consequently the significance of government expenditure in maintaining economic equilibrium is considerable. Government outlays have continued to increase over the years both absolutely and proportionately in relation to national income. For example, total government consumption expenditure between 1968-69 and 1972-73 increased by 66 per cent while national disposable income increased by only over 50 per cent. Over the same period and despite an induced economic downturn in 1971-72 private consumption expenditure increased annually by over 9 per cent and reached 11.7 per cent in 1972- 73. What more evidence does the Government require before it realises that the rapid expansion in government spending under its programs has in fact stimulated a situation in which in a mere 20 months a relative insufficiency in demand was replaced by a formidable insufficiency in supply in 1973-74. 
There has been for too long a tendency to talk of supply and demand in terms of aggregates. Government fiscal policies in particular should be applied more selectively to the economy and directed at those areas where expansion is required more rapidly than in other areas. Ordinary market forces will help to stabilise the economy provided the Government uses its fiscal and monetary policies to give a guide to those areas in which it wishes to see an expansion or contraction of economic activity. The social and political costs of prolonged unemployment, as I mentioned earlier, cannot be contemplated by any Australian Government. Furthermore in the present circumstances high unemployment benefits make substantial unemployment as a viable tool of economic policy pointless. It does little to reduce aggregate consumer demand in an inflationary situation. There has been a tendency to assume that cost-push inflation can be attributed solely to wage levels and thus there must be attractions for governments to experiment with prices and wage freezes and incomes policies, all of which have been tried overseas and none of which has been proved to be a success in the long run. The Liberal Party made this absolutely clear at the time of the last referenda and this is still our position. The answer to our inflationary situation is not necessarily to bring demand down by draconian controls of credit interest rates, etc, but to encourage greater production in those sectors where supply shortages are most felt, together with a more responsible use of monetary and fiscal policies. 
Those who prefer to deal in facts rather than fallacies will appreciate that calls for the transfer of income from one sector of the population to overcome inequalities of opportunity for others and attempts to achieve this by reducing incentives through excessively high taxation will not succeed. Such policies do nothing but destroy the economic base upon which Australia was built and has prospered for so long. We do not need a cradle-to-the-grave society in which the Government will dictate all aspects of our daily lives, and expect those of us who still want to work to pay dearly for the ultimate welfare state in which the individual will lose all freedom of choice and the capacity to plan his destiny. Equally we must ensure that those Australians who, through no fault of their own, suffer from serious social and economic disadvantages should be helped to play a full part and live a full life in our society. 
The Government would be well advised to direct its crusading energies towards ensuring that industry is encouraged to meet the excess demand situation by increasing production rather than by applying monetary policies which tend to dampen productive incentive both of employees and employers at a time when in the national interest the entire work force should be encouraged to increase productivity and work for the national good. I would just like to refer members of the Government to a very appropriate comment of Abraham Lincoln who made a series of observations on this point. He said: 
You cannot bring about prosperity by discouraging thrift. You cannot strengthen the weak by weakening the strong. You cannot help the wage earner by pulling down the wage payer. You cannot further the brotherhood of man by encouraging class hatred. You cannot establish sound security on borrowed money alone. You cannot build character and courage by taking away man's initiative and independence. You cannot help a man permanently by doing for him that which he can and should do for himself. 
Let us move forward as a nation, accept change and progress. Let us not be bound by the static orthodoxies of the past, particularly let us not have the Australian people suffer from this Government's incapacity to throw aside its inhibiting socialist principles and economic shibboleths. Let us find new ways of doing things - of managing our economy - which will give full  expression to the great imagination, the great potential and the great energies of the Australian people. 
asked the Minister  representing  the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
As Australia was obliged, under the provisions of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, to complete a safeguards agreement by 11 July 1974 with the Government of the United States of America, will the Minister incorporate in Hansard the text ofthe safeguards agreement which was signed with the United States on 10 July 1974. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
<para pgwide="yes">Will he supply statistics of Australia 's trade with the People 's Republic of China and the Republic of China (Taiwan) since the withdrawal of diplomatic recognition from the latter in December 1972. 
Did the Special Minister of State issue a Press statement on academic salaries on 14 July last in which he stated that:  ... the Government had agreed that  Mr Justice  Campbell would undertake an interim review of salary levels of academic staff in universities. 
Did the Press release conclude with the following statement: 
The Minister said that the Government expected to consider Judge Campbell's interim report in the context of its Budget discussion. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he, in an address to the National Press Club on 20 June 1974, state in relation to Australian ownership and control of industries that we are really concerned with industries of national importance. 
If so, which industries of national importance does he consider should be Australian owned or controlled. 
What are the criteria he would apply in defining (a) Australian ownership and ( b) Australian control. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
.  Is he responsible for the Overseas Property Bureau. 
If so, is it a fact that a substantial shipment of furniture was purchased by the Bureau from Australian manufacturers and air freighted to Peking in July1974. 
Is it also a fact that, in connection with the refurnishing of the Australian Chancery and staff residences in Peking, there have been about 8 visits made by officers of the Bureau to Peking. 
Was it possible to purchase adequate furniture and fittings from Hong Kong, Japan, Manila, or Singapore at a substantially lower cost than from Australia; if not, why not. 
Was it necessary to send Australian carpet layers to Peking; if so, why. 
Did he authorise the visits of his officers to Peking. 
How many officers made the trip, and for what purpose. 
What was the total cost including sustenance and travel for their visit. 
What has been the total cost of furnishing the Chancery and residences in Peking. 
-As the House has already been advised by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher),  the Opposition is in agreement with the proposed amendments to the Australian Universities Commission Bill 1974. The proposal to establish a full time  deputy chairman  is obviously essential to enable the Universities Commission to carry out the most important functions which have been established by its statute. 
It is worth remembering, however, that the Universities Commission was established in 1959 by the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, who will go down in history undoubtedly as one of Australia's greatest minds and a man who certainly appreciated the need to establish in this country a soundly based tertiary education system. We are told by the Minister for Education in his speech that there are now 17 universities and there should be another four by the end of next year. This is a fantastic growth when it is considered that after the Second World War we had only 6 universities. It is however symptomatic of a trend which has been seen throughout the rest of the western world, in fact the entire developed world today, that university and tertiary education are no longer the right of the few but of the many. This is the  context in  which we have to consider these amendments because the Australian electorate is being asked to carry more and more of the cost of university and tertiary education. 
It is worth remembering that in the 1974-75 financial year the Government proposes to spend $892.4m on tertiary education, which includes expenditure for universities. Therefore this House must consider in some detail exactly what we are trying to achieve with our university system and to decide whether or not the system as it is presently constituted is meeting the needs of the Australian community; in particular, whether or not the present system is able to build for Australia's future and whether or not we are producing the type of people who will be able to lead this country into the next century. 
A university has traditionally been seen as an institution devoted to the pursuit of knowledge, the solution of problems, the critical application of achievement and the training of students to a high level of academic and professional excellence. I think those 4 criteria speak for themselves. But I also believe that it is in the context of those 4 criteria that we should look at the existing legislation, look at the amendments which are proposed to see whether in fact it is living up to expectations. 
The second amendment foreshadowed in this Bill relates to the definition of a university. We are told that it is intended to restrict the meaning of the word to institutions established by the Australian and State Parliaments. The reason this amendment has been included is to prevent so-called self-styled universities or private coaching or teaching colleges blossoming across the land, as they have in some other countries, and lead to a general lowering of standards. The important thing is the question of standards, and if we are to regard this as an amendment of substance, as I do, we have to consider in great detail whether or not we should necessarily have a system which means that all universities for all time must be State or Federal institutions. I question the logic of this, and, above all, I question the need for it. Surely the essence is standards, and that is where we have to draw the line. 
In the United States and Japan, for example, there are a substantial number of institutions which are not classified as government controlled to any degree. There are 2,626 United States universities, of which 1,474 are private and 1,152 are public or state controlled institutions. A similar statistic can be found for Japan. Now, is anyone in this House able to say that Japan and the United States have been backward in the development of scientific and technological achievement? Have their cultures and their societies suffered because of the existence of private universities? Obviously not. 
I therefore submit that in Australia 's long term future development it is better that we leave the door open on the presumption that at some stage in the future there may be private organisations willing to take on the substantial financial burden of developing universities. I do not see any purpose at this time in closing the door by having a definition as rigid as the one proposed by the Government. 
Benjamin Disraeli once said that a university should be a place of light, of liberty and of learning. I would hope all members of this House would accept that liberty of thought and expression is indeed the breath behind man's ultimate progress. Therefore I think it is very important to place on record the need to ensure that whatever administrative system is applied to make certain that our universities have sufficient funds to carry out their most important work, that an administrative machine does not develop into some sort of monster which will dictate all aspects of university life. I recommend that members of this House should read in some detail the reports of the Australian Universities Commission, which contain not only a plethora of detail about institutions in Australia, about our various universities, their strengths and their weaknesses, but also point out where we have to look for the future. For example, they have examined in some detail in a report the concept of the open university. 
In my opinion, the future of the open university requires detailed thought and is something I support generally. In my opinion, the objective of education is to prepare people for life and to help them through life. The second criterion in particular means that people need to be retrained through life. We are aware that the Government has proposed various retraining schemes which primarily cover the blue collar sector of the community. What has not been done, what has not been adequately covered, is the fact that every professional today, whether he be an engineer, a doctor, a dentist or a lawyer, must have some degree of retraining throughout his professional career. 
This brings me to the question of whether or not universities as presently constituted are capable of giving the degree of retraining necessary for the existing professions in addition to supplying the basic knowledge required, the undergraduate faculties and also the opportunity for post graduate and research work. I would submit that the situation we find today is not wholly satisfactory. On the contrary, there has been a tendency in the last 3 years throughout Australia for institutions to reduce the numbers involved in socalled part time study. I think it is fairly clear that, if we are going to consider seriously a system of professional retraining, part time study is the only real method by which it can be carried out. A man with a family is obviously not able to take one or two years off to go back to university. On the other hand, he can find two or three nights a week. I think it is a very poor situation indeed when I discover in some universities that the tendency to discourage part time studies is becoming more the rule than the exception. I earnestly suggest that this whole question should be examined in great detail. It is not simply a case of making tertiary education free. That is fine for the 17 or 18-year-old who has just left school and who has no administrative and family responsibilities. It is not satisfactory for the man who has to make his way in the world, who already has family responsibilities, who is probably already a partner in one institution or another and who must make the effort in his own time to re-educate himself to keep up with the tremendous strides in knowledge that are taking place today. 
It has been estimated that since the Second World War man has increased his totality of knowledge by more than he did in the previous 150 to 200 years. That speaks for itself. It shows, if any evidence is required, that any person of any profession who got a degree 10 years ago will be hopelessly out of date today, unless through his own efforts he is able to retrain himself and keep up with the changes which are obviously taking place. The essential point I wish to make on the whole question of our tertiary education and in particular our university education is the need for high standards. 
There has been some suggestion in the Press and in other sources that because we are taking a larger input of students standards are falling. I personally have no evidence to back up this theory. 
On the contrary, it could be shown that in various faculties- we must make the point clear that in certain universities certain faculties are more highly regarded than others- if anything, standards have gone up. Certainly the amount of academic work, the number of essays, the number of class practical exercises and the number of examinations which students have to take have certainly increased in recent years. Unfortunately, however, in Australia we also find that one in three university students fails. 
This brings me back to the point I made earlier, namely that the Australain population is being asked to carry a greater proportion of the financial bill for tertiary education. Any government which is prepared to take on this responsibility must be prepared to consider in some detail why it is that one in three Australain university students fails, and why those students who go in for a 3-year or 4-year course take up to 6, 7 or even 8 years to graduate. Is that a cost which the university can sustain? Is that a cost which the community should be prepared to bear indefinitely? Will those figures go up or will they fall? In some universities they have fallen in the last 2 years and in others they have risen. This is a very serious problem. It is a question of utilising the brain power and the capacities of the universities to the maximum extent possible. 
Perhaps one of the reasons we face a problem is our method of teaching. For many years there has been a tendency in universities to grant status to those university professors and lecturers who have been outstanding in research work. Unfortunately, many great researchers are hopeless as teachers. Perhaps the line needs to be drawn. Perhaps we need to apply a different definition. Perhaps our post-graduate students should be encouraged to make a fundamental decision. If they are going to be professional academics, which line should they take? Should they be teachers, should they be researchers, or should they be a bit of each? I do not have the answer, but I suggest that in finding the answer we might go a long way towards discovering why it is that so many students fail in Australia's universities. 
Yesterday I visited the University of New South Wales and I asked many questions of students specifically because of this debate. I wanted to make sure that what I said was at least up to date, because members of this House and others have often been accused by university students of being out of date. Therefore I thought it was necessary to check my facts. I was appalled at the number of students who said to me: 'We have spent 4 years here, and most of the time we wonder why we are here at all. We wonder whether we are wasting our time'. Surely, if the system is what it should be, if universities are indeed supposed to be, as Disraeli said, places of light, liberty and learning, we should be able to give the students at these institutions at least a feeling of belonging; at least an appreciation that the time they are spending there is well spent, that they are not just there for rote learning, that they are not just there to be part of a conveyor belt producing degrees, as though a university were some sort of a giant degree factory. But this is what many students feel. I think their attitudes towards universities are very important. 
If the student, who is the ultimate product of the university, finds the system wanting, then I think we are being very stupid and short sighted if we stand back and say: 'We are right, because that is what we have decided. The student must be wrong, because anyway he is just a student who does not know what he is talking about'. If we have given those people the right to vote and if we have given them the right to have the taxpayers' money spent on their education, then let us at least be prepared to think and examine in detail their complaints on these matters. If we are not able to produce students who are successful, quite obviously our society and the depth of our knowledge and understanding will also fail to meet the test. 
The problems facing the world are too great for us to be in a position to allow people to spend years of their lives in a university unless their time there is well spent. When I say 'well spent ' I mean that the individual student should feel that he is making a contribution to himself, his university and to the society of which I am sure he is willing to form a part. Until we have achieved that we have not reached the essence of the definition of a university. 
Perhaps the time has come for a reconsideration. Perhaps we need a new stratification between the secondary education level and the tertiary level. We have seen in the last few years the advent of the institution of the college of advanced education. This is certainly a step in the right direction. But I do not think it solves the whole problem. If we take on the major task of re-education, which I mentioned earlier, perhaps we will need to put some people, especially graduates in the existing universities, and put in many now at the undergraduate level in another college system which can be placed in between the universities and the colleges of advanced education. This has been tried in various countries. It has been tried in the United States of America. In some places it has been successful; in others it has not. But I submit that to continue a system which allocates thousands of students to a handful of faculties and to expect the academic staff to be able to give to those students individually the degree of attention which they obviously need is ignoring the realities. It cannot be done at the present time, nor in the foreseeable future. 
Perhaps we should be looking for university institutions of approximately 14,000 students. We should have far more universities rather than fewer universities which have great numbers of students. I realise it is a matter of cost, and I also appreciate that the Australian Universities Commission pointed out in its recommendations that it is more expensive to have more smaller universities than a few bigger ones. That is fine, but it is not entirely a matter of cost; it is a question of results. Unless our universities are able to produce the quality of graduates which this country needs, and unless the youth of Australia attending those universities can complete their time there feeling that it has been well spent, then indeed we need to re-examine our concepts in this regard. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to support the amendments moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  to the Government's Budget for 1974-75. Millions of words have been written and spoken in this House and elsewhere about the perils of inflation and unemployment facing Australia. In December 1972 and again last May the Labor Party promised the people so much. A brave new world was to be born, but it never told them what the cost would be, nor did it tell them who had to pay for it- the people of Australia. Last May, faced by this spectre of serious inflation, the Labor Party even offered the people a Prime Minister who could cut inflation by onethird. It assured the people that no Labor Government would tolerate unemployment and that under Labor there would be fewer strikes and less industrial unrest. Today the Government's tattered record ties at its feet. 
Last May its Ministers travelled the length and breadth of Australia stating its policy in the most modest terms, and I would like to quote from the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby).  This is what he said: 
A basic principle of our approach to manufacturing industry is that a competitive and viable business sector is a corner stone for our overall policy framework. Without this we could not hope to achieve our program for housing, social welfare, education, health services and the like. It is also necessary if we are to maintain full employment. 
They were the words of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry and I applaud such sentiments, but I seek in vain for substance in the Government's policies. Where is the promised co-operation between Government and industry? Where are the policies essential for a competitive and viable business sector? Where are the productive incentives the Government took away in its first Budget and did not restore in its second? Why did the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  tell us so glibly only a few days ago that incentives were necessary to assure sustained economic growth; yet he refused to take tangible steps in the Budget. Where is the capital so necessary for productive investment? Where is the confidence of the community in Australia's future? Why have we seen such an alarming fall in the stock exchanges, comparable only with the great depression? Why are there more unemployed today than at any time since the Second World War? These are valid questions and the people of this country have a right to hear sensible and realistic answers from the Government. 
The present masters of our national destiny, the purveyors of outdated economic shibboleths, these misguided men, would have us believe that whatever the cause of Australia 's economic crisis the blame is not theirs. Of course not! The cause ties in the monetary policies of 1972 and the influence of imported inflation, the multinational corporations or the activities of private business. And of course we must not forget the poor farmers. Who are we to blame? The Treasury, whose advice was not heeded? The plethora of ministerial advisers who prefer to think up new taxes in a search for cheap notoriety? The various treasurers and other selfstyled economic experts with which this Government abounds? No, of course not. Mere men could not possibly be responsible for such an economic mess. It must be the system under which this country has grown and prospered for so long. 
Despite the Government's wishes, our economy is based on personal initiative and corporate enterprise which have given Australia a standard of economic growth that is the envy of many nations. This Government has attacked and derided enterprise, using as evidence subjective criticisms, half truths and outdated case histories. It has used unashamedly every possible means to attack the socio-economic system which in mankind's long evolutionary history is the only system which is based on an objective theory of values determined by human nature and interpreted by man's mind, which recognises the intrinsic good and forms from it appropriate value judgments. I make no apologies for my unshakable belief in the right of individuals to determine their destiny in their own way, subject only to the rule of law, and I would defend an economic system based on individual and corporate enterprise which the Australian people know and understand. It is the only system which can safeguard the rights of the individual within society and prevent us all from becoming servants of an omnipotent State ruled by the few and served by the many. It is a system which is capable of constant evolutionary change and which must be prepared to change to meet the requirements of society. To destroy it wilfully is to create a new kind of social exploitation. 

 Mr Speaker, I have made these general remarks because this Budget which we are debating is essentially a political blueprint for this Government's ambitions to change the socioeconomic base of Australia. This Budget has no claim to be an all-embracing economic document of any substance. It was derided by virtually every editorial in the land and was subject to significant change almost before the languid tones of the Treasurer had faded from this chamber. This Budget demonstrates the Government 's determination to reach new heights of fiscal irresponsibility by increasing outlays by a massive $3,980m- an increase of 32.4 per cent over last financial year- while emphasising the Government's intention to transfer resources from the private sector to the government sector, using as its alibi a reduction in activity within the private sector that was deliberately caused by its own policies.  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a statistical analysis prepared for me by the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission on the number of companies wound up in New South Wales between 1970 and September 1974. 

<graphic href="091131197410153_66_0.jpg"></graphic>

-This table demonstrates the disastrous effect which the Government's stop-go policies have had on the private sector in the last 20 months. If this trend continues there will be over 1, 144 failures this financial year. 
Once again in this Budget the Australian people have been asked to believe that, provided the Government spends record amounts, in the short term the quality of life must improve, that opportunities for education must be greater and that better social welfare will result, while all the time the potential recipients of this mythical Government generosity are being asked to pay a greater and greater share of their income in taxation. Everyone wants a welfare state provided they do not have to pay for it. By the end of this financial year the wage earner on $160 a week who has 3 dependants will be paying 2 1 per cent of his salary in tax. Three years ago he paid only 16 per cent of it in tax. In 1965 he paid only 10 per cent. The upward trend and the growing personal burden should be clear to all. 
I challenge supporters of the Government to go out onto the streets of any city or town in this nation and ask the people whether they think that they are better off in real terms than they were 2 years ago. I have done so. I can assure them that the answer will be a definite no. The people of Australia are sick and tired of being offered the mythical pleasures of some toffee apple society- a sweet taste with a rotten core. This Budget, in its clearest political form, is an outright bid by this so-called social democratic Government, which is the term used by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at the United 
Nations General Assembly, to transfer from the non-government sector of the economy- from the people- to the Government for its exclusive use the productive resources of the economy. The Government intends to apply ruthlessly, no matter what the human and economic costs may be, its avowed aim, as set out in the Australian Labor Party's platform, of 'the democratic socialisation of industry, production, distribution and exchange'. 
The Government does not care for reform. It does not want to believe that the present economic system is capable of adjusting and accommodating itself to the requirements of the nation. It is determined to apply such policies as it has applied over the last 20 months- for example, the 25 per cent tariff cut, the removal of tax concessions, the Draconian credit controls and the unprecedented interest rates- to cause a general malaise and breakdown of confidence in Australia's future. The Government has sown the seed for the complete collapse of the Australian economy from which it hopes and believes that a new socialist society can and will be born. How else are we to interpret such bland statements in the Budget as the ones that the Government anticipates a slow down in economic activity and that aggregate demand will be weakened- the effect of its own policies? 
How could any responsible government not see that all of that must cause unemployment while it blandly accepts inflation in excess of 20 per cent? What has become of those pious statements that no Labor Government could tolerate high unemployment? What has the Government done to prevent people losing their jobs? It has done nothing but talk. What has it done to encourage the industrial sector of the economy to have confidence in the future while the cloud of nationalisation hangs over it like the sword of Damocles? What is to be gained by the people of Australia if the private sector of which they all form a part and which is the generator of the economy's wealth- shared by all- is reduced to a state of despair? Why cut off credit at a time when business confidence is essential if unemployment is to be reduced? I ask the Government, which has the experience of 20 months of economic mismanagement behind it, what has it to offer the 160,000 unemployed and the 180,000 school leavers who will enter the employment market early in the New Year. Indeed, what has become of our lucky country? In future years historians will look back in amazement at how a government could in a mere 20 months change an efficient economy and a very egalitarian society into such a shambles. 
We have been told that this Budget is a reaffirmation of the Government's determination to progress with its policies of social reform regardless of the cost to the economy and the very people which its policies are supposed to support. We have been told by supporters of the Government that it is a Budget of understanding and compassion. I regret that at a time of such economic difficulties we look in vain for any sign of the Government's understanding of the true economic position of this nation. As for compassion, supporters of the Government would do well to realise that their financial liberality at a time of such economic stress would be better directed at setting the nation's course towards an economic recovery so that there will be no unemployment and thus far less social hardship. 
The Government was elected on a grand design for income redistribution combined with social welfare policies to help the low income earners within our community, but it has ignored the fact that inflation is reducing the real purchasing power of income, that there is a rapidly falling value of money, that prices for goods and services are rising and that there is a lower net income as taxes increase. The so-called unearned income tax surcharge, which my Party totally rejects, was directed initially at every Australian, young and old alike, rich and poor, regardless of community status, who has committed the social crime of wanting to save for the future. To the young person saving to buy a block of land or a first home, the middle-aged person saving for his or her retirement and the retired people who saved throughout their working lives so that they would not be dependent upon the charity of the state the Government has shown no compassion. 
The Government's policy is to destroy individual incentive and deliberately try to build a nation of mindless sycophants utterly dependent upon the Government's capricious benevolence for their survival. 
The Government's decision to reduce the income tax deduction for education expenses strikes not only at the non-government schools, which was its intention, motivated by the desire to restrict freedom of choice, but also at the young mothers and the single parent families who depend on pre-schools and kindergartens, which are often costly, while they make a living to support their families. Who is going to support the children in the far west? Who is going to give them the chance of a reasonable education in this nation? Those people are asking the Government: ' Where is your compassion? ' 
I challenge the Government to go to the Australian people on this Budget of understanding and compassion. I wager that it will be thrashed. It is one thing to offer people a better quality of life when there is full employment, confidence and the belief that their future is assured, but it is another thing entirely for the Government to have to show to the people its economic incompetence and the damage it has done to this nation. The Government should realise that Australia is a mixed economy based upon the need for co-operation between government and private enterprise. The growth of our welfare services and community advancement programs are desirable- but they must ultimately depend upon our economic prosperity and upon our willingness and ability to pay for additional services through higher taxation. To achieve that we need Government assistance and guidance to enable the economy to maximise production and productivity. That does not mean that we need government control of the decision making processes at all levels. That would be both inefficient and totally unnecessary. The Government, through its ad hoc decision making, has failed to give any guidance to the Australian people and has thus contributed directly to the deep disillusionment and discontent to be found everywhere. 
The Australian people have been nurtured on political scepticism for too long. They have been encouraged to recognise no limits in the demands that they may make on governments. They cannot now be expected to co-operate unless those who are elected to govern are brave enough to make it clear without equivocation that as a nation we can only solve our problems through co-operation and restraint- restraint at all levels of the economy and co-operation among all sections of the community. It is impossible for any government to continue to spend record amounts on welfare and community services and at the same time seriously attempt to restrain rises in costs and prices. The wages explosion of the last 12 months, combined with a less than satisfactory level of productivity as well as pressures from imports- all the result of specific Government policies- have priced out of employment large numbers of people. Now under intensive pressure to reflate the economy to overcome the unemployment the Government, if it persists with its present policies of over-spending and excessive taxation, will be presiding over the birth of a further round of wage demands caused by an inevitably rising hyper-inflationary situation in the New Year. 
Despite the obvious dangers facing the nation the Labor Government has persistently ignored the Opposition's warnings and offers of cooperation. With regret we have seen our deepest forebodings being fulfilled. There is no easy solution to our problems. The road back to stability will be hard and long. Sacrifices must be made by all of us. Then and only then shall we see the solution of our dilemma. It is becoming abundantly clear that the Government should introduce a supplementary Budget if it wishes to hold the last tattered shreds of its economic credibility. This Budget should integrate the Government's fiscal policies with an overall economic strategy to overcome our 3 major problems- inflation, unemployment and a lack of confidence. Income taxes must be reduced to stimulate savings, investment and productivity. The Government's control of indirect taxation must be used to stimulate demand and reduce prices especially in those industries which have suffered from specific Government policies. Credit restrictions must continue to be progressively eased but the Government's monetary policy must be more clearly explained to the electorate and carried through. Within the context of a supplementary Budget a co-ordinated policy to restrain incomes and prices should be announced following negotiations between the Government, the States, industry and the trade union movement. Both Federal and State legislative powers should be co-ordinated to ensure incomes and prices are effectively restrained, at least in the short term. The Government must resolve to maintain a balance in our external account. These are the principles which will dictate whether this nation in the next few months is going to be able to get out of the present situation. 
Last May the Labor Party gave an undertaking to the Australian people that it would have no part of stop-go economic policies, that it would not tolerate unemployment, that only Whitlam could reduce inflation to 8 per cent by the end of this year. Now it is going on well towards 20 per cent. Honourable gentlemen opposite should mark well those promises for they shall be written upon your political epitaph. The people of Australia will long remember the incompetence and, in spite of that incompetence, the depths of deceit to which this Government stooped to hold the fruits of power. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many Australian Assistance Plan grants were made available to (a) Hornsby, (b) Ku-Ring-Gai and (c) Warringah local government bodies since 2 December 1972. 
) If grams were made, what were they to be used for. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What types and numbers of aircraft comprise the VIP fleet. 
How many times have these aircraft been used to transport troops or equipment for military exercises 
within Australia; and 
overseas since 2 December 1972. 
How many QANTAS charters have been arranged to carry troops or equipment 
a ) within Australia; and 
overseas, excluding the withdrawal of Australian forces from Vietnam, since 2 December 1972. 
What was the total cost of the QANTAS charter. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he announce on 22 July 1974 that HMAS PERTH would leave for the United States of America to have a major refit which would include a new combat data system for its Tartar Missile Fire Control System, replacement of the Sin. gun mounts, modernized radar, etc. 
Did he also announce that the PERTH'S sister ships HMAS BRISBANE and HMAS HOBART, would also be modernised but in Australia. 
If the position is as stated, will HMAS BRISBANE and HMAS HOBART have a refit to the same standard as HMAS PERTH. 
If so, why is it necessary for HMAS PERTH to be refitted in the United States. 
If not, why are not HMAS BRISBANE and HMAS HOBART also being refitted in the United States. 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Will the Prime Minister advise the House of the principles which will apply to the granting by his Government of aid valued at $150,000 to African liberation movements, presumably through the Organisation of African Unity? Will the Government permit or encourage Australian aid to be given to African liberation organisations wishing to free countries such as Burundi or Uganda from their present governments, or will the aid be used exclusively for liberation movements in southern Africa? If it is to be offered only to liberation movements in southern Africa will he say why it is to be limited to that geographic area? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
In view of the significance of the South Pacific Commission to the island states in the region, will the Minister give an assurance that Australia's financial commitment to the Commission for the financial year 1974-7S will be maintained or increased in real terms. 
-Last Monday, 21 October 1974, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in commenting on the record consumer price index increase of 5.4 per cent said: 
Such a disturbingly high rate of inflation cannot continue without permanent damage to our economic and social structure. 
Perhaps one of the areas which has suffered most from inflation- a rate of inflation encouraged almost entirely by the present Government's policies- has been the housing sector. Inflation has involved not only those in industry but also and just as important that section of the community, mainly young people, who are trying desperately to own their own homes. In many countries home ownership is not regarded as a sine qua non of normal life but in this nation it is. For 23 years successive Liberal-Country Party governments did their utmost to make home ownership a reality to all sections of the community regardless of income. 
Today we have reached a situation where almost without exception it is very difficult to obtain adequate finance to buy a home in keeping with a person's desires or needs. In addition to that, as the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  pointed out, we are faced today with incredibly high rents which are being charged to people who are forced to pay rent for accommodation. Unfortunately the fact remains that high rents are only symptomatic of a situation that has developed during the last 2 years and is directly the result of Government policies which have restricted home building in the last few months so that it has not kept up with the obvious increase in demand. The Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  pointed out recently that 1973-74 showed a record level of housing approvals and also commencements and completions. Of course' that is correct. He also went on to say that the Government had been forced to take restraining action because industry was unable to live up to the requirements of people demanding houses. Yes, that is true, but what the Government has not done and what has to be done is to relate the demand for housing not only in terms of the supply of land, labour and capital but also to examine in great detail what should be done with the available labour resources of the economy. 
Today we find that most houses are built by contract labour and many contractors have shown a distinct disinclination to employ apprentices because they feel, for various reasons, that they are not getting their money's worth. In the long term this is a very serious situation. We have to build up a labour force which is both numerically and in terms of qualifications capable of meeting the increasing demand for housing in Australia. It is worth pointing out some statistics which have recently been prepared by the Housing Industry Association of Australia. The statistics were published in March 1974. According to the projections in regard to housing needs, in 1975 we will need 184,500 new homes. By 1980 the number will increase to 207,000. The Government must realise that today we are still in what can best be called a large demographic bulge in the community where a significant section of people will be getting married or have recently married and will be requiring housing from the public and private sectors. The public sector has improved its position in terms of total financing for Government funded accommodation for low income groups. This has been given to State authorities and I have no doubt it will be put to good use. 
The fact still remains that the vast majority of housing completions in Australia are carried out either by private contracts or by larger companies in the community who are developing housing. Unless this demand can be met we will face a situation where, in the next 2 years in particular, rents will increase because the demand will increase. The population is growing and the requirement for building is growing with it. The demand is simply not being met. It is no good using fiscal policy as a dam to hold back demand in the hope it will just whittle away. People need accommodation. They have a right to accommodation. It is the Government's responsibility to apply economic and fiscal policies that make this a reality. Until this is done the country will not ' progress forward. It is not satisfactory to say to the people of Australia who paid $130 a month last year on their principal-interest repayments that they now have to pay $300 a month. It is not satisfactory for people hoping to build a home in 8 months to find it will now take them 12 months. The Minister might be interested to know that I have been trying to build a house for 18 months. It is still not finished. The building industry is in a situation of chaos today greater than it has ever been before. 
Because of your policies. 
Because of inefficiency in the industry and because the Government has allowed a large demand to build up without initiating adequate industrial and training policies to meet the demand. It is not just a case of supply and of finding the necessary capital or the necessary land. We have to find people to build the houses. It is the Government's responsibility to see that we do that adequately. 
It must be very heartening for the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  to have an honourable member on his side of the chamber, such as the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  who extols his virtues with such eloquence. Unfortunately I am unable to do that because for some 22 months the mining industry in Australia has been forced to live in an atmosphere of the utmost uncertainty caused by the attitudes of the Minister for Minerals and Energy and, in particular, of his Department. As the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  has already pointed out, the Australian uranium industry has been halted for the last 2 years and no new contracts have been permitted by the Government, despite the fact that between 1975 and 1990 Japan is expected to require 170,000 short tons of uranium oxide. The Minister told this chamber on 1 October that we will sell uranium only to countries which are full accessories to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. As Japan has not yet ratified the treaty the Minister should explain quite clearly what are the Government's intentions. Are we going to sell uranium to Japan? In fact, what is the Government's uranium policy? 
The Minister is proceeding with his dream of establishing a national gas pipeline grid, although he has never advised this chamber or the Australian people of the details of any costbenefit analysis or feasibility studies on projects which will cost the taxpayers at least $ 100m during the next 18 months. He has also stated that gas from the north-west shelf will be sold in Sydney at the same price as in the Pilbara region, but such pricing policies are quite obviously contrary to the Government's desire to encourage decentralisation of industry throughout the continent. The Minister's attitude toward petroleum exploration and overseas investment has resulted in only 3 off-shore drilling rigs and 3 on-shore drilling rigs being in operation today. There are 12 others which remain inactive and 10 have been taken overseas. Even if the Government's policy were to change today it would be years before companies would be interested in or able to return to oil drilling in Australia because of existing overseas demand and a shortage of rigs and expertise. 
It is a well known fact that on present prices, by 1980 we will be spending over $2 billion on importing fuel into Australia. Obviously our domestic fuel situation is critical. On the Minister's own estimate we have only 14 days of fuel in reserve and various public utilities throughout Australia are as low as 5 days. On the Minister's own estimate, therefore, there is obviously a need today to be encouraging the petroleum industry, but that has certainly not been done. The other problem which the Government has failed to overcome is that it does not have a policy with regard to increasing the refining capacity in Australia. That has become absolutely clear by the answers given by the Department to the Royal Commission of Inquiry into the Petroleum Industry. 
The list of excesses and downright obstruction which the Minister and his Department have inflicted upon the minerals and mining industry in Australia is almost endless. There is the Alwest proposal from which Reynolds Metals has withdrawn because of present Government policies. The lack of a specific pricing policy and a viable Government attitude towards foreign participation have been key factors in delaying the development of the Redcliffs proposal. The Minister's intrusion into the New South Wales electricity strike last September was a flagrant example of interference in the domestic affairs of a sovereign State of this Commonwealth. The future of natural gas exports has been grossly complicated by the Minister's failure to honour his promise to produce an energy budget which would define the extent of any future natural gas exports. I ask the Minister: Where is his energy budget? Most recent of all we have had the halfbaked proposition to establish a uranium enrichment plant in Australia. It would take approximately 2 years for a satisfactory environmental impact statement to be prepared and at least 8 years to build a plant. Where are the feasibility studies? On past performances we can assume that they do not exist. 
The Government's desire to limit overseas investment in Australia's refining and metal industries by restricting the import of capital has severely affected Australian companies and has actively discouraged thousands of Australians from investing in the mining industry. The statistics of the Bureau of Statistics show quite clearly that in the last 2 years the percentage of 
Australian ownership has in fact fallen even further. Now, faced by the realities of a rapidly drying up capital market, the Government is prepared to send the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  overseas to encourage foreign interests to invest in the Government's pet projects through the Australian Industry Development Commission and the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. But the uncertainty and the doubt which the Government has done its best to implant in the minds of foreign investors will not be dissipated overnight. 
For 2 years the Government has mindlessly pursued policies totally out of context with Australia's position and development needs and has failed to enunciate a policy to encourage Australian participation. We have been told by the Minister for Minerals and Energy that he has policies and that he is faithfully pursuing the platform of his Party. Despite his hollow words, in October 1973, accompanied by 3 other Ministers including the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and  Dr J.  F. Cairns, the Minister for Minerals and Energy travelled to Japan for top level ministerial discusions. The party left Australia's shores without a firm policy and in desperation attempted to prepare one on the aeroplane. The result was confusing, to say the least. The Japanase a disciplined people, found themselves having to interpret no fewer than 3 conflicting sets of opinions expressed by 3 Australian Ministers. 
On that occasion, the Government offered the Japanese joint participation in a uranium enrichment plant using their technology and finance. But, faced by such a confusing policy, the Japanese have to date refused the Government's terms. There are indications that Japan doubts Australia's long term reliability because the Government has failed to articulate its foreign investment and minerals policies except in the broadest terms. At present, Japan has only 2.9 per cent of the total foreign investment in Australian industry, compared with 36. 1 per cent for Great Britain and 40.4 per cent for the United States of America. Japan obviously wishes to have an equity share, not ownership, in those key industries which it sees as vital to its security and sources of raw materials. 
Now, on the eve of the visit of the utmost importance by the Prime Minister of Japan accompanied by top officials from the Gaimusho and a party of some SO journalists, we are the horrified watchers of a Wagnerian tragedy, in which the Government finds itself in a position where it has yet to clarify its policy within the Cabinet and it still developing its position for negotiations. Australia deserves better than that. The people have every right to expect that their Government would have firm guidelines as the basis for negotiating with a nation whose people are past masters at the art of driving a hard bargain. Beneath all the cant and all the hypocrisy emanating from this Government, there are real Australian national interests. They are crying out to be heard. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy should realise that the Prime Minister made it quite clear both in his 1973 Roy Milne lecture and again in his recent speech at the United Nations that he sees the need for Australia to accept international obligations to ensure continued resource stability by guaranteeing sources of raw materials. But, despite these statements, Australia's relations with Japan have been largely determined by a Minister and a Department who have no right to interfere directly in Australia's foreign relations and whose actions have tended to dislocate interdepartmental coordination and co-operation which are essential for the effective implementation of such Government policy as exists. Members of this House will be surprised to learn that to this day the Department of Foreign Affairs does not know officially what happened in Tokyo last October because the Department of Minerals and Energy refuses to tell it. 
These are the situations which exist. This is the situation that we find in the Public Service today where there is no basic co-ordination of policy between the Executive Departments of State. The establishment of a foreign economic policy committee to help co-ordinate and implement Government trade and resources policies was mooted last year. It was a good proposal, and the Prime Minister supported it. But it foundered on the rocks of inter-ministerial and interdepartmental rivalry, because the Departments of Minerals and Energy and Overseas Trade and their Ministers refused to co-operate. This idiotic behaviour has gone on for too long. It must stop. 
It should be clear to all thinking people that no government can function unless its bureaucracy is co-ordinated and has effective guidelines and policies to implement. The interests of Australia are greater than those of any individual and certainly of any department. Yet, the Government and, in particular, the Minister for Minerals and Energy and . his Department, have singularly failed to overcome these major problems. Earlier this year, for example, a 'hot line' was connected between the Department of Minerals and Energy and the Department of Foreign Affairs in an attempt to make co-ordination a reality. And, for 3 months, officers of the Department of Minerals and Energy dared not pick up that telephone. No attempt was made to inform the Department of Foreign Affairs on departmental thinking on minerals and energy matters. Is that the sort of administration that the Australian people are being expected to pay $5m for? The behaviour of the Minister is notorious in this field, as is the behaviour of his Department. It is his responsibility to the Australian people to make sure that coordination of policy does become a reality and that personal likes and dislikes take second place to the national interest which, above all, is the responsibility of Ministers of State. 
In a few days time we are to receive from Japan the most important delegation in the last few years. The Japanese are coming to learn what the Government's policy is, to see whether it does have specific guidelines for foreign investment and to decide for itself whether Australia is in the long term a reliable trading partner. It is in Australia's national interests that we assist the Japanese to maintain a stable economy and a reliable political system. What is to become of the NARA Treaty about which we have heard so much? We have to live with Japan. We have to live in the Pacific region. What is beneficial for Japan is ultimately also beneficial for Australia. But we, as well as the Japanese, have national interests. It is the responsibility of the Government to ensure that our resources are made available to nations which require them. In return they must ensure that our resources are sold at fair and reasonable world prices. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What contributions has Australia announced to assist the Emergency Relief (Special Program) agreed to at the United Nations General Assembly (Special Session) held in May 1974. 
Will these contributions be additional to proposed aid commitments for 1974-75. 
What is the value of the additional contributions, and which countries will be the recipients. 
Diplomacy and politics have one characteristic in common, and that is that the practitioners of those arts, if I may call them that, are primarily the purveyors of both the written and the spoken word. The unfortunate fact is, however, that in foreign policy and in the conduct of a country's foreign relations there is a tendency by those who hear the same words to assume different meanings. This Government came into power 22 months ago with the specific intention of redefining Australia's foreign policy. It attempted to do that. It promised many things; it promised us changes right across the spectrum of our international relations. Today, 22 months later, it is indeed time to stand back and have a look at what has become of this nation's foreign policy. 
The Committee has heard from the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  what I consider to be a less than satisfactory speech in support of the Government's policy towards South Africa. I think honourable members should realise that this Government only a few weeks ago was perfectly prepared to vote in favour of South Africa's credentials being accepted at the United Nations. Yet today, only a short time later, the Government is asking for South Africa's expulsion from that same body. I hope no one in this House, certainly not myself, is going to support the principles of apartheid in any shape or form- I make that absolutely clear- but I do fear that if the Government is going to apply a policy of universality in the United Nations by voting in this way it runs a very extreme risk that if one nation is thrown out others will undoubtedly follow and one day in the future it might even be Australia's turn. 
The principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter must be supported, but those same principles require to be examined in great depth to see that its interpretation and its application does not run counter to Australia's own long term national interests. I know it is difficult to translate ideas into reality. I know that many of the principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter are admirable and should be the basis of the foreign policy of all countries, but they are not. We are well aware that there are many nations in the United Nations today which since the establishment of that body, have done nothing to apply its principles in terms of their own domestic legislation. Yet often it is those very countries which are the first to make charges against others. We have to realise this fact. It is a situation in which the United Nations finds itself today, and if that body is to achieve anything notable in terms of peace and goodwill it is time that states be prepared to relate to their own legislation today the principles which they were so prepared to agree to many years ago. 
Australia needs above all an interntional reputation for enlightened reason. We achieve no stature by simply running with every emotive issue that arises at the United Nations, a forum which makes subjective judgments- for which it is now notorious- led by governments which, as I mentioned, are often disinclined to apply the United Nations principles. Our role should be genuinely to seek lasting and peaceful solutions to the world's most pressing problems. For those reasons Australia's foreign policy must be based on the realities of the present and the expectations for the future. 
Let me refer once again to the subject of South Africa. The other day I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  a question concerning aid to national liberation movements. He said in reply that it was all right, that other countries did the same thing, that there was nothing to worry about, and that of course the money would be well spent. But it is $150,000 of the taxpayers' money that we are talking about. For the benefit of the Minister for Science and other members of the Government it should be realised that even the Scandinavians are no longer satisfied with giving money to funds over which they have absolutely no control in terms of how that money is spent. Is the Government going to fund people who are doing nothing but buying arms and munitions with which to kill others? Is that the basis of the Government's policy of peace and goodwill among men? 
Of course South Africa must be made to change its policies; but force has achieved nothing in this world. We are all well aware of the well known comment that those who live by the sword ultimately will die by the sword. The United Nations has the capacity to change South Africa's attitude. There have been changes, even if they have been slow. Last week we saw the Foreign Minister of that country being prepared to stand up at the United Nations and admit for the first time that South Africa's policies were wrong and that there needed to be change. That is where it must start- in the hearts and minds of the people who live there. It is not for the rest of the world to dictate to the South Africans how they are to run their affairs. We ourselves are not in such a strong position that we can point the finger at others. All honourable members on both sides of this chamber should realise that fact. If this country is to be a nation of saints, I would hate to see a nation of sinners. Let us not be the first to throw the stone. Let us be prepared to lead the world forward through just and sensible policies of restraint and self-control in our internal relations. 
The present General Assembly of the United Nations will be considering an Australian proposal concerning diplomatic asylum. The Australian Government is seeking to have the United Nations accept a convention which is designed specifically to protect people whose lives are likely to be threatened because of their race, religion, political beliefs or nationality. Those are splendid concepts and fine words. But in recent months the people of Australia, particularly the members of this chamber, have been made well aware that the deeds have not lived up to the words. 
Only a few months ago we had the Ermolenko affair, which left serious doubts throughout the Australian body politic. In the last 2 weeks it has been brought to the attention of this chamber that an Eastern European diplomat had the courage of his convictions to go to an Australian embassy and ask for political asylum and that this Government which is prepared to stand up in the United Nations and talk about the freedom of the individual and the need for political asylum, refused that man his individual rights. The same Government is the first one to stand up and say that it stands for the rights of the individual, that it is a government which believes that all nations must base their policies on the principle of independence, and that it is a government which says that all nations must be free and equal; yet when one man had the courage to come forward and ask for its help the Government turned him away at the door. 
The day is over when the Government can win votes by talking. The time has now come for action and for the Government to show the world and the Australian electorate that its policies are realistic, that they can be applied and that they will bring credit to this nation. I regret to say that no credit has been brought to Australia in the last 22 months in the field of foreign policy. The Government is quite happy to let Chilean refugees come to Australia- and so it should. But would it kindly explain to me where the distinction lies between a Chilean refugee escaping from a fascist dictatorship and an Eastern European diplomat escaping from a communist dictatorship? As far as I am concerned there is no distinction. Those people are human beings and they are entitled to freedom. 
Let me turn now to the subject of the Baltic states. We have been told by the Minister for Science how the former Liberal-Country Party Government's policies were nonsense and how these states were in fact recognised years ago. The Minister is well aware, as I am, since we both came from the same fold, that one can enter a country as a diplomatic official without necessarily having to give it diplomatic recognition.  Sir James  Plimsoll, the present Ambassador to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, was in fact the first Australian to enter Portuguese Goa after India took it over, but that was not necessarily a total acceptance at that time of the status quo. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Department of the Media, although only a comparatively recent Department of State, is one which has a tremendous influence over a very wide area of the lives and activities of many Australians. It goes well beyond that in fact for through the activities of the Australian Information Service overseas this Department also plays a major role in projecting Australia's image. The role of the AIS is primarily directed at interpreting Australia to her people as well as interpreting Australia to the world. Both of these activities are of tremendous importance. The second, interpreting Australia to the world, is the area with which the Service is most concerned. But the first is equally important. Unfortunately it is very difficult for many Australians, especially those who grew up and live in areas between Brisbane and Adelaide, to get a true appreciation of exactly what their country is and what the problems are of people living in Western Australia, the Northern Territory, Queensland and the outback generally. This difficulty arises because of the size of our continent, the complexity of our problems and the sheer distance between large sectors of the community. For this reason the AIS through its films and the preparation of school media material and so forth, could have a very real part to play not only as an adjunct to education but as a means of making Australians more aware of their nationality, their problems and their associations. 
At the present time the AIS overseas is attempting to provide an effective flow of balanced information about Australia and its people to the world and is meant to be explaining national policies and furthering Australia's international objectives. Quite obviously the relationship between these activities and those of the Department of Foreign Affairs are self-evident. In recent years the relationship between these 2 departments has been satisfactory. Interdepartmental committees have been established to ensure that there is co-ordination of policy at a high level. I think this is very important and must be watched closely by Ministers to ensure that a high standard is maintained. 
At the present time the AIS has 11 officers serving in Asia, fifteen in Europe, six in the Americas and two in the Pacific. In my opinion this is probably not sufficient to give Australia the type of coverage which I think is required. I also believe that the standard of officers who have been sent overseas must be maintained at a high level. There are cases where this has not been the case. There are many examples where the interpretation of Australian policy to other nations rests to a large extent with the information media. A very good example of this occurred last year when  Mr Grassby,  the then Minister for Immigration, visited the Philippines and told them that the White Australia policy was dead and buried. Within days not only something like 40,000 Filipinos were at the gates of the Australian Mission but also there was a similar situation in Rangoon where there were 10,000 Burmese beating at the gates of the Australian Mission and Australian immigration application forms were being sold in the streets of Rangoon. 
This was a fantastic example of a breakdown in communication where the Minister had expressed what he thought was an acceptable interpretation of Government policy. It was obviously simplistic to say that the White Australia policy was dead. But the implications of this in the minds of thousands of Asians was totally beyond the comprehension of the then Minister. The damage done by that one act is incalculable. The people in Rangoon who had waited outside the Australian Mission and were turned away went back to their villages and families saying: 'The walls are not down; the doors have not been opened; the white Australia policy is as real today as it was before '. 
I can assure honourable members that there is very little we can do in the short term to overcome that problem. This is where the role of the media comes in. The the information officer, whether he be a First Secretary or a mere junior officer in an embassy, has a very real role to play in making sure that he keeps in contact with the media in the countries where he is the representative of the AIS as well as to interpret to government officials the exact Australian policy. 
I now want to mention briefly the Australian film industry, which also falls within the purview of this Department. At the present time we have Film Australia, an excellent institution which is based in my electorate, the National Film and Television School, which is attached to the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, and the Film and Television Board of the Australian Council for the Arts, which also comes within the 
Prime Minister's Department, and the Australian Film Development Corporation, which will soon be incorporated into the Australian Film Commission when the necessary legislation passes through the parliamentary process. Quite obviously these organisations should be related to each other in a close manner. I would hope that when the Australian Film Commission is established- although my Party has some problems with the legislation- the Government would take steps to make sure that the National Film and Television School and the Film and Television Board of the Australian Council for the Arts are closely related to the Australian Film Commission. I see no need for a group of organisations all involved in the same industry belonging to different departments. This is not an administratively convenient arrangement. 
Honourable members are probably aware that in recent years the Australian film industry has produced three notable films- 'Alvin Purple' and the 2 Bazza McKenzie films. Some would say that none of these films is quite to what we would regard as the sort of film the average Australian would want to see. However, the fact is that all 3 of these films have paid for themselves and returned a substantial profit. When a new industry is developing, and the Australian film industry at that level is indeed a new industry, it is very important to make sure that a profit is made because they are ploughed back and are used to make further films. 
The Australian Film Industry at the moment is generally limited to the production of television commercials and films for television, as well as documentaries. It is not a large industry and it is found mainly in Sydney and Melbourne. Over the years it has gradually developed, and, from what I have seen, it has maintained a remarkably high standard. I think all of us who watch television would appreciate that in recent years the Australian content has improved not only in quality but also in quantity. For the benefit of the Committee I would like to quote part of the 26th annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board which emphasises this point: 
Australian material televised during peak viewing timethat is between 6 p.m. and 10 p.m.- between May 1973 and July 1974: First release drama increased by 60 per cent, current affairs by 40 per cent, and variety by 42 per cent. 
The Australian content of programs shown on television today is in excess of 52 per cent. It has increased fairly substantially over recent years and I hope this trend will gather momentum. It is important to make sure we have high standards for television and that we do not take the view that the lowest common denominator must be the principle upon which our television programming and policies are based. 
The final point I want to make is in regard to the Government Publishing Service. Honourable members will be aware that we are deluged by publications. I have been a member of this Parliament only since May of this year following the last elections, and already I have received more than 200 publications. They come by the bucketful almost every day and even during the night. Many of them are substantial and very fine publications such as the report on the National Estate which is selling for $10. What worries me, however, is that the Minister released a statement recently in which he told us that the Government printing and publishing bill was almost $20m in the 1973-74 financial year. I would suggest to the Government that in view of the present state of the economy an attempt should be made to limit the cost of Government publications. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What administrative assistance is available to the National Advisory Committee for International Women's Year. 
What funds have been made available for the planning of a program to celebrate International Women's Year in 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the Government's attitude regarding the rights of the people of Guinea-Bissau towards self-determination the same as the Government's attitude towards the future of Portuguese Timor; if not, what are the differences. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many private overseas students are currently studying at Australian tertiary institutions. 
Do these students benefit from the Government's decision to abolish all tertiary fees. 
From which countries and in what numbers do private students come to Australia. 
Is the indirect financial assistance given to private overseas students included in Australia's overseas aid statistics; if not, why not. 
Are private overseas students eligible to participate in Government-financed student assistance programmes; if so, how many applications have been granted and for what amounts. 
-We all know that today there is a considerable growth in activities and relationships between countries through diplomacy. We also know that in the history of Australia there has always been an unfortunate tendency to delude ourselves into believing that Australia can stand aloof and shut herself away from the world 's problems. Today we are entering an increasingly interdependent world and our attitude towards national sovereignty and other problems will undoubtedly be affected by the situations we see in other countries. For that reason it is the responsibility of all governments, regardless of their political colour, to ensure that they bring to the attention of the Australian people, through the Australian Parliament, the activities, the problems and the solutions which the government of the day sees as being best fitted to the interests of this nation. 
This Government has been in power now for 23 months. During that period, despite the comments made by the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison),  the fact still remains that only one statement on foreign policy has been made in this House. I am not commenting on statements made in the other place. The fact of the matter is that a statement on foreign policy has been made on only one occasion in this House and that was on 24 May 1973. Since that date the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has made no fewer than 1 1 visits overseas to no fewer than 25 countries. This is a remarkable record and it has not been equalled by any Prime Minister since Federation. 
I do not quarrel with the principle of the rights of a Prime Minister and leaders of a Government to travel overseas to ensure that they are up to date with trends and expectations of other nations, but what I do comment on is that on their return it is the right of the Australian people through their Parliament to know what the Prime Minister and the Ministers have learnt by their experiences. It is not good enough just to swan around the world using taxpayers' money and then returning to ominous silence. We do not want silence from a government. We want to know what its policies are and the people of this country want to know what sort of leadership they have both domestically and in a foreign context. 
We have seen for too long- in the last year in particular- the shambles which this country has been reduced to because of the Government's lack of specific economic policies. Are we to see a similar situation develop in our foreign relationships? The implications are clear and the dangers which face us today are just as relevant as they were to previous governments in earlier times. We have been told that the Government's foreign and defence policies which of course should always be interrelated are based on the principle that Australia is not likely to face a threat for some 10 to IS years. At the same time we have a government which allows Indonesian fishing fleets to go into the north-west shelf area of Australia because we lack the capacity to stop them. If we sent our entire fleet of small ships up there we would leave the rest of Australia more or less denuded of naval defence. I do not wish to discuss defence in the context of this debate but the fact remains, as the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  so rightly pointed out, that no country in today's world is able to sit back and say with any conclusive reliability that no likely threat will occur within the next 1 0 to 1 5 years. 
We have seen in the last few months the enunciation of a new doctrine of nuclear war by the United States Secretary of Defence. The implications of this for countries like Australia are of considerable importance. We want to know what the Government thinks of this. Why should not the people know the importance and relevance of the bi-polar axis? Why should not the people of this nation be given a chance to appreciate that although we must live in the bi-polar context the fact remains that there is a considerable growth in technology which has developed through nuclear capacity? This is growing all the time. We must be aware that within the next 5 years many more states will either have the atomic bomb or have the capacity to build it. This is relevant to our policies. It is relevant to Australia's defence, especially when we see the nations to the north of us- India, and Indonesia in particular- already, in the last 2 months, coming out with a statement which to say the least was ambivalent but which would give reasonable expectation that they too are now prepared to get on the nuclear bandwagon if they can do so. 
We have also seen in the last few months the United States making the decision to supply technology and uranium reactors to both the United Arab Republic and to Israel. The implications of this are enormous. Again we need to know the Australian Government's view. We are well aware, through the comments made in the United Nations and elsewhere, that the Government is against the proliferation of nuclear weapons and so are we. But is the Prime Minister when he goes to Moscow at the end of this year going to make it quite clear to the Russians where we stand and how we expect to see the Russians assist the United States in coming to a reasonable arrangement with the states which already have nuclear capacity to ensure that we do not have this proliferation any further? 
Let us get the facts understood. Let us learn the situation as the Government sees it. It is not good enough for the Department of Foreign Affairs to be the sole purveyors of information. If this is a democracy and if this Parliament is to be active as it is supposed to be in the interests of the Australian people we need to discuss these matters. Isolation, as I said earlier, is a reality in Australia and it is something which has to be broken down in the interests of this country. 
The Minister for Science made the comment that monumental bungles had been made by previous Liberal Prime Ministers. He failed to give us any specific examples except to suggest the Press is now able to travel faster than aeroplanes. I do not regard that as being particularly relevant. 
There are, however, a number of points worth raising in the context of this Government's foreign policy. For example, we had the Asian forum, an idea which the Prime Minister went to great length to expound in the early days of his first Ministry. Since then there has been dead silence. Why? Because he tried to launch an idea in the Asian region which the region was not prepared to accept at that time. Then we have the insults to  Mr Nixon.  Regardless of the past, the fact of the matter is that  Mr Nixon  at that stage was  President  of the United States- a country with which we were supposed to be allies and with which we had very good relations. Yet, this Government was quite prepared to insult  President  Nixon to an unprecedented extent. Then in October 1974 3 Ministers went to Tokyo allegedly to talk about minerals and energy matters. They had no policy when they got on the plane. They tried to prepare one on the way to Tokyo. The 3 Ministers concerned all spoke with different voices and, of course, the Japanese did not give them an inch because nobodyespecially the Japanese- would be prepared to negotiate on such an extraordinary basis. 
More recently, we had the case of the exMinister for Immigration who joined the Prime Minister in overseas visits. They visited the 
Philippines and assured those people that the White Australia policy was dead and that there was nothing more to worry about. What was the result of this quaint use of words? We had 10,000 Burmese trying to invade our embassy in Rangoon. We had Burmese selling our immigration papers on the streets. Thousands of Burmese returned to their families and villages and were able to say, with the knowledge of their own experience, that Australia was not genuine- that they had gone to the Australian Embassy and they had been turned away from the door. The same thing happened in the Philippines. The statistics are quite clear. I ask honourable members to examine them. If they do so they will see that whenever the Prime Minister or  Mr Grassby  visited South East Asia there was an enormous increase in applications for immigration to Australia. 
Let us be 'fair dinkum' for a change. Let us give this country and this Parliament a fair go- a term we have heard used so much in other quarters. Let the people of Australia know the Government's expectations because unless our future is secured and unless we are in a position to be able to look forward and make reasonable assessments as to our future, this country will no longer be secure. 
-As the final  speaker  for the Opposition in this debate it is my pleasure to try to bring together some of the rather extraordinary combinations and permutations of statistics, views, counter views and various shibboleths which have been given to this House by various supporters of the Government. The Opposition, as has been pointed out by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  who led for the Opposition in this debate, agrees with the contents of these 2 pieces of legislation. I think we should realise, however, that the Government's decision to increase expenditure to more than $ 1 16m, or 60 per cent, during 1973-74 was perhaps required more because of the shambles which we find today in the Australian housing industry than because of some charitable concept it may have for looking after those who are in need. 
One of the speakers for the Government made the point that previous Liberal-Country Party governments had shown a constant lack of capacity to appreciate the problems of those who are in need in the field of housing. I would like to quote, for the benefit of the House, from a document entitled 'Australia's Population- Aspects and Prospects' prepared by the Australian National Committee for World Population Year of which I was a member. This document was issued as an official document of the Government in April this year. In paragraph 64, 'Housing', this is what we said: 
The number of dwellings in Australia almost doubled between 1947 and 1971 to meet the needs arising from rapid population expansion and to overcome a backlog in dwelling construction which developed during the 1939-4S war years. The 1971 census showed that some 94 per cent of the population of over 12.7 million was housed in 3.6 million separate dwellings. Of the remaining 6 per cent - 
These are the people we are in fact talking about in terms of this legislation - about one quarter lived in mobile or improvised homes or in shared accommodation. The rest were housed in non-private dwellings such as hotels or motels, staff quarters, hospitals, boarding houses, nursing homes and other institutions. Since 1 947 housing preference has changed. There was a four-fold increase in self-contained flats. In 1 97 1 , 20 per cent of the occupants of flats and 76 per cent of occupants of private houses were outright owners or were in the course of purchasing their dwellings. 
In paragraph 65 we said: 
During the last 10 years, about 84 per cent of all houses completed in Australia were privately built, mainly with finance obtained from major institutional lenders. But the Australian and State governments have contributed significantly . . . 
That is the accurate situation which has pertained in Australia for over the last 25 years. It varies most significantly from what we have seen in a mere 23 months. The Labor Government has put us in a situation today where Australia faces, in the words of the Housing Industry Association, a crisis in housing not paralleled since the immediate post-war period. The older members of this House will remember that at that time people were forced to live in garages, and I can assure those same honourable members that once again in Sydney people are living in garages and sub-standard accommodation. Approvals and commencements have fallen dramatically, interest rates are at an all time high, and housing and land costs have soared. There are shortages of serviced land, materials and labour. All of these shortages have now reached alarming proportions. The Government has failed completely in the field of housing. It is no good taking housing out of context. We have to look at the entire economic situation, because housing is a vital factor in the economic wellbeing of this community and is a vital factor in the social wellbeing of all Australians, regardless of their economic or social position. 
With regard to the section of the community which I have said I estimate to be not more than 6 per cent, which we are discussing in terms of this legislation, there has been a tendency, I fear, for the Government to draw a red herring across this area by its concentration on public housing which, as I have said, represents at the present time approximately 6 per cent of the housing demand. We have been told by the Federal Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  on other occasions in somewhat grandeloquent terms that there is a need for a spread-eagled constitutionality and that he has to draw together the threads so that he can overcome the problems of local and State government responsibility in this field. There is undoubtedly a role for the Federal Government to play in terms of overall housing policy, especially at the level of finance, but the actual activity involved in the construction and the administrative work involved in meeting the needs of the people must be at a lower level. 
As one who served in the Public Service for more than a decade before entering this House, I honestly believe that it is not possible with all the will in the world for public servants in Canberra to be able to appreciate at the grass roots level the real problems of society as found in the large urban conurbations, such as Sydney and Melbourne in particular, where most of this 6 per cent of the population happen to live. 
The ultimate result of the Government's philosophy in terms of its involvement in housing is that the Government should regulate completely the 2 major components, that is, land and finance, and the availability of both for all Australians. I submit that its present policy is not consistent with the realities. It does not show, nor can it be related to, the financial structure of this country. Above all, it is quite inimical to the philosophy of my Party. 
The field of housing in many respects- I think the Minister will agree with me on this pointhas failed fundamentally because there has been a tendency not to compare in terms of reality the role of the Federal Government and its relationship with the States. For a long time, and still today, Australia has been faced with a shambles in relation to uniform building codes. Attempts to improve have been made. The previous Government attempted to get the State authorities to see the situation. The present Government is also moving in that direction. This is a major consideration which has to be seen for what it is. It is not possible to cut down the cost of overall housing expenditure in terms of per unit cost until we can come up with respectable and applicable uniform codes throughout Australia. This can be achieved only through the close cooperation of the State authorities with the Commonwealth. 
In my opinion- I know my Party would accept this- we need to recognise that the transfer of resources from private to public housing in the traditional sense is slow, difficult and often a very wasteful process. This has been amply illustrated by the fact that the present Government in 23 months of rule has failed in its attempt to reallocate funds into certain other areas of the building industry. In fact, it is but another example of a growing list of economic failures which have resulted in the average Australian today being in a poorer situation than he was in 3 years ago. My Party is sympathetic to that section of the community which needs our assistance. We have always been sympathetic, and I would like to see any honourable member in this House be prepared to deny the right of every Australian, regardless of his economic or social position, to live in a decent manner, to house his family. But I do question the fundamental need to construct a sizable section of the housing industry on the premise that people should only pay rent. Those who have gone into and lived within large areas of rental accommodation in this country and elsewhere would perhaps note one important characteristic, that is, that the fact of ownership changes people's attitude towards their houses, and I would suggest that it changes their attitude towards what goes on in a home. In other words, there is a very close correlation between people's economic and social wellbeing in terms of their capacity to play a full and purposeful role in the community and their ability to have the pride of ownership. Above all, in the family context it enables them to be a good parent and to give their children a better environment in which to grow up. 
At the same time there is quite obviously a section of the community which is often movingeither coming into Australia or going out, as many people are doing at the moment- or transferring occupations which would suggest that there is a need for some rented accommodation. It has been shown in recent years that there is no incentive in Australia for the private sector to construct rented accommodation to the degree required. All of a sudden the Government has decided that it can achieve its so-called socialist and sociological goals by applying vast sums of money to the State housing authorities for the construction of accommodation, ostensibly for that 6 per cent of the population which needs assistance. 
-I agree entirely. Obviously under the present economic circumstances it is more than 6 per cent. Regrettably we do not have statistics to back us up on that at this moment. However, in the last 12 months housing costs have risen on a national level by 21.5 per cent. That is enormous, when it is related to the increase in funds which the Government intends to allocate. It suggests that from the vast sum of $160m-odd 21.5 per cent has to be deducted before we will get to a real figure upon which we can compare the situation with previous fundings for this type of housing. There is no doubt, as I have already pointed out, that there is a pressing need for an effective housing policy for Australia. I think that it is also quite within reason to expect that if the public sector of the economy, through the Government, is going to contribute, as it has up to now, approximately only 6 per cent of the need the private sector must continue to fulfil a very real role in the future. The Government's policies, especially economic policies, have done their best to break that down, but the fact still remains- and I wish the Minister to recall once again the statistics which I have already mentioned in this House- that according to the projections which were prepared by the Housing Industry Association in 1975 we will need over 184,500 new homes and that by 1980 the number will increase to over 207,000. I would like to remind the House that those statistics do not take into account the fact that we are at least 60,000 homes behind what we should have had last year. With the growth of the Australian population- the anticipated increase in the number of families in the Australian populationthe fact of the matter is that the building industry today is indeed in a very parlous state. 
-This afternoon we are considering the text of the Australian Film Commission Bill which has already been the subject of very extensive amendment by the Opposition in another place. We did not make these amendments through any desire to be capricious; we made them because our precise interest is to ensure that we have a piece of legislation passed through both Houses of this Parliament which guarantees that the Australian film industry for the foreseeable future will be based on a sound legislative framework. Unfortunately the legislation as it was introduced in the other place and the amendments which the Government again proposes to move to the same Bill mitigate against that objective. It is in this context, therefore, that we must consider the amendments which were proposed and accepted by the Senate. 
The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  and I have both read, I am pleased to note, the Tariff Board report concerning motion picture films and television programs. If those who drafted this legislation had done so, as they should have, within the context of this report they would have found, as I did in reading it with some care, that many of the objectives they are trying to achieve are not contained in the Bill's text as they should wish it to be. We are trying to build this legislation on a foundation established by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  when he was the Prime Minister of Australia. I think it is only fair to the industry, which he realised was of such great importance to the future of Australia, that we should give it legislation which can make everybody appreciate the position of the industry and its relevance within the Australian community. Essentially what we are trying to do is to come up with a Bill under which films produced in Australia in terms of both theatre and television will assist in translating Australia not only to Australians but also to the rest of the world. 
It is within this context in particular that we must see the role of the organisation known as Film Australia and the position which has been adopted by the Government in relation to the approval of the Minister. The Opposition has consistently made it clear that it does not accept clause 5 of the Bill primarily because- I point this out once again as other speakers have done- it provides that the functions of the Australian Film Commission are:  subject to the approval of the Minister, to make, promote, distribute and exhibit any films . . . 
The point we make is that it does not refer to some films- not just films which have been produced by or in future will be produced by Film Australia or other organisations- but films from the entire industry. Within that context it is quite unacceptable that we should leave the industry entirely at the hands of one Minister. 
There are people, certainly supporters of the present Government, who will say that we are running red herrings. I remind the House that before the May elections the Minister who is responsible for this legislation spent about $lm in advising the people of Australia of the functions of Parliament. It was extraordinary how that piece of propaganda was distributed only about a month before the elections. It was also interesting that most of the money was spent in the migrant Press. I do not need to make the point any clearer. If the Australian people are to continue to live in a democratic society it is fundamental that all areas of the media, in particular television and films as well as the Press, should be allowed to remain free from ministerial guidance. I have just quoted one example. I have no doubt that if one looked deeper into the files of the present Government there would be many other examples. However, the Opposition is not prepared to pass through this House legislation which leaves any possibility of this type of activity being conducted by future governments, including the present Government. 
A point which also has been made by previous Government speakers is that the existing organisation Film Australia, when it is incorporated within the Australian Film Commission, should require the approval of the Minister for its operations on the grounds that Film Australia has always acted within the confines of ministerial direction. That was the position because Film Australia was an arm of an existing government department. But what we are debating now is the establishment of an entirely new commission, and as it will be a statutory authority the criteria which we apply obviously should be different. Since when has it been decided that ministerial control should be exercised over the Australian Broadcasting Commission or the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation? We know the role of the Minister in that regard and I fail to understand how anybody could logically argue that if statutory corporations and commissions are to be established there should be ministerial approval in one field that does not apply in other fields. 
I should like to refer again to the Tariff Board report on 'Motion Picture Films and Television Programs' because it is relevant to the principles which should apply to this legislation.  Dr H.  C. Coombs, who is known to all honourable members, when he gave evidence to the inquiry made 4 pertinent points. Me said: . . . The inquiry probably relates to four general aspirations 
. To increase the opportunities for Australians to express themselves in the various artistic and cultural fields which at least certain types of film production embrace; 
To increase the opportunity for Australian creative artists in the film medium to express and enrich Australian identity and culture; 
Hopefully, to increase the knowledge and appreciation of Australian creativity in the film medium in other countries through international exhibition of such films; and 
To enable Australians to make an appropriate contribution to the sum of international achievement in those fields of culture, entertainment, education and other worthwhile endeavour communicated by film. 
I am sure that no honourable member in this House would disagree with those basic principles. I hope that the Government, in its wisdom in drafting this legislation, kept those concepts in mind. 
Another aspect which we should cover concerns the question of the unfair monopoly position which can be given to productions of the Australian Film Commission in relation to the total industry. Clause 5 of the Bill outlines the criteria which are supposed to apply to the type of films the Commission would like to see produced. In addition the Bill, in clause 3, contains a definition of Australian 'short film. The Opposition in the Senate made substantial amendments to this definition but I note that it is the Government's intention to restore the original text. As it stands, the Australian 'short film' definition is quite satisfactory. It covers films made by the Commission as well as films which can be defined as being Australian films. The latter are films where at least 80 per cent of the footage has been made in Australia. What I fear, however, is that we have perhaps missed the point. Although it is intended by this legislation to make funds available for the creation of Australian film, it is not necessary for us to cut off foreign investment in the film industry. 
As has been pointed out by other speakers, this industry in Australia is still in the development stage. For that reason, we will still need to be prepared to import to Australia a considerable degree of expertise, especially at the director level, if we intend to produce feature length films as distinct from short length films. Within that context, therefore, I would have thought that it was important that in our definition we should not only relate to the question of the percentage of footage which is produced in Australia but also be concerned as to whether a film is substantially produced in Australia. By that I mean whether those who participated- the technicians, the actors, the producers and the directors, to name a few- were Australians. What we are trying to do, I would have thought, is to establish an industry which had not only a sound economic base but also personnel well trained in the activities regarded as essential in that industry. For that reason, if a foreign company wishes to produce a film in Australia, and it is going to employ a substantial percentage of Australian personnel, I would have thought that was a reasonable basis for inclusion in the definition in terms of an Australian film whether it be of short or long duration. 
I have one other criticism in relation to the proposed Commission. It is this: At present not only do we have Film Australia which we know is to be incorporated into this Commission but also we have the National Film and Television School, which is attached to the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet, and the Film and Television Board of the Australian Council for the Arts which also comes within the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. In addition there is the Australian Film Development Corporation. I would have thought there was reasonable logic in trying to relate these organisations in a more specific manner than has been proposed in this legislation. After all, we are dealing with one industry. We are once again facing the proliferation of bureaucratic organisations established by this  (Government  in the 23 months and the very real possibility that the right hand does not know what the left hand is doing. I think this is a classic example of how this problem must be kept in mind. The Opposition has accepted this Bill in principle. We have put forward excellent amendments which I would commend to the House. Provided the Government does not intend to force through its other amendments, we shall support the BUI. 
-As has been pointed out by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  the Opposition has no objection to this legislation. On the contrary, it is obviously in Australia's long term interests that we maintain a very close relationship with the International Development Association and we support the activities which that organisation has been carrying on for some years. I wish to take this opportunity to advise the House of some of the background to the IDA and of the work in which it is presently involved. 
The International Development Association is an affiliate of the World Bank. It came into being in 1960, and was the culmination of a vigorous campaign by the less developed countries for a sizable fund, basically under United Nations control, to provide grants and long term, low level interest loans for economic and social development. The IDA is not under United Nations control not does it make grants but loans. It operates by weighted voting following the World Bank's general pattern of voting rights and the less developed countries have a slightly stronger voice in IDA than they have had in the World Bank. The IDA as an international organisation is closely affiliated with the World Bank and has a fund administered by it. IDA's aim is to finance the same types of projects as does the Bank. These are based on the same standards of selection. However, its terms are different and place a lighter burden on the balance of payments of the borrowing countries. In effect, IDA has served to broaden substantially the range of nations with which the World Bank deals and to increase the amount of financing it provides. 
In 'Partners in Development', a book published by Lester Pearson, he described the IDA as:  . . . in effect the World Bank operating according to a special set of instructions for the management of a special fund. 
As  Mr Pearson  pointed out, the  President  of the World Bank is also the  President  of IDA while the Executive Board's staff for the 2 organisations are identical. 
Despite the initial doubts about the operations of the International Development Association when it was established, it has achieved a commendable record in development finance and for its efficient administration of the funds placed within its care. It should be noted that if the volume of IDA credits had not been increased in proportion to total loans and credits from the World Bank group to less developed countries, the group's net transfer to those countries would probably have become negligible over the years. Indeed, the Bank group's future financial contribution to the less developed world is essentially dependent upon further rises in the level of IDA activities. 
During 1973, for instance, more than 70 per cent of IDA resources had been channelled to the poorest countries, that is, those with a per capita gross national product of US$120 per annum or less, while at the same time increasing attention had been given to those countries designated by the United Nations General Assembly as 'least developed'. In the 1973 report of the World Bank, the Executive Directors:  . . . concluded that while IDA's basic lending policy should be maintained, the greater emphasis which had been given to the very poor countries, including the 'least developed ', should be continued. 
It was urged also that the International Development Association in particular should continue to place:  . . . increasing emphasis on lending to those sectors which were of direct relevance to the bulk of the population in developing countries. 
For example, in agriculture. In the light of the world food shortage, it is interesting to note that in 1973 IDA lent $938m for agriculture. This volume exceeded that of any other sector of the World Bank for the first time in the history of the activities of the World Bank Group, and was more than twice as large as in the previous financial year. The increase in expenditure in the agricultural sector was a matter of deliberate policy in recognition of the dramatic deterioration which is taking place in the global food situation and the fact that the unprecedented combination of adverse weather conditions in large parts of the world had resulted in serious shortfalls in food grain production as well as a precipitous decline in grain reserves and a demand for scarce supplies which itself has had the effect of raising world food prices sharply. 
The role of IDA might well be critical in putting into practice the ideas which have emerged recently from the United Nations World Food Conference, the objectives of which include the attaining of a target of 10 million tons of food aid a year for the next 3 years to those nations in most desperate need, the establishing of a system of internationally co-ordinated food reserves to guard against further shortages in case of poor harvests such as occurred this year, and the arranging of an international exchange of information about food production and stocks. There are divergencies on how these objectives should be approached. But one group, including the United States of America, favours a co-ordinating group to include the World Bank, the Food and Agriculture Organisation and the United Nations Development Program which would serve to stimulate a flow of funds and help with arriving at decisions on how best to use them. If this proposal is sucessful the role of the IDA will be more important than ever. 
The International Development Association specialises in lending to developing countries with low gross national product per capita incomes. This will become more relevant. For example, between 1969 and 1973, IDA loans to countries with a gross national product per capita income of less than US$120 amounted to US$2,785m while the World Bank loans to this group during the same period totalled US$842m, which was significantly less. It is also worth noting that in 1972-73 IDA credits to Asian countries, which are particularly relevant to Australia's aid program, amounted to US$883m while World Bank loans to this area for the same period amounted to only US$408m. Moreover, IDA credits to Asia amounted to more than half of the Bank's total credit operations. 
Thus the IDA's operations in the vitally important agricultural sector in the Asian region emphasises the significance of this organisation for Australia and why it should continue to enjoy our strong support. 
In 1972-73, the World Bank on the other hand devoted much of its attention to the Middle East, Africa and Latin America. Its loans to Latin America amounted to US$638m and to Africa and the Middle East US$768m which is more than three times the amount of loans the Bank was prepared to grant to countries in the Asian region. Australia's continued contributions to IDA which in 1974 will total more than $55m are a very relevant aspect of our total multinational aid program to the developing world and most specifically to those countries in our own region. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Will the recent Government decision to conduct regular discussions with the European Economic Community on a range of issues of common interest, including the export of Australian mineral and energy resources, assist him in framing a comprehensive minerals and energy policy which the Australian people have been awaiting for some 19 months. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, it has been brought to my attention today that a report appeared in the 'Canberra Times' of 14 November suggesting that I supported extravagant trips overseas by the Prime Minister and Ministers. 
-This evening we are debating a Bill which does not deserve to be debated for the Government well appreciates that it has quite adequate authority through the Reserve Bank to make additional funds available to the trading and savings banks for the funding of housing and so forth, especially through the control over statutory reserve deposits. There is no question that this could have been done by means other than a Bill. However, for cosmetic reasons it is clear that the Government wishes to make a grand gesture of making additional funds available to show Australia that all of a sudden the whole building industry is to be back on its feet. Why? Because funds are available. The unfortunate fact is that mere money does not build houses and ordinary people today are faced by the sheer weight of interest which makes it very difficult for young couples in particular to seriously enter into the home buying or home building market today. 
It is all very well for the Commonwealth Bank to suggest that it is prepared to make available first mortgage funds of up to $25,000 and second mortgage funds to make up the difference. We must remember that the first mortgage bears interest at about 10.5 per cent and the second mortgage at 1 5 per cent and is payable in 5 years. These are, to say the least, onerous terms for any section of the community and to suggest that people at the bottom- young people who are trying to establish for themselves a reasonable home base in this community- can meet such repayments is to deny the realities of the situation. 
The Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson),  who is well known for the subtlety of his phraseology, has told us: 
Recent problems in the housing industry have been caused by the aggregation  of capital  in the free market. 
I am delighted to note that a Minister of the present Government puts such weight on the free market. I would have thought that we have not had for many years a free market, but rather financial controls in Australia. I am well aware, as I am sure the Minister is, that there is sufficient legislative control in this country and through the powers available to the Government to ensure that at no time should there be an inordinate aggregate control of capital by the free market. 
The situation is quite clear. When this Government came to power there were indications of an overheating in the economy and for the first 12 months of its administration it did nothing to control that overheating. I remember hearing only too well on television and seeing advertisements put out by the banks in the newspapers: 'Come to us for money. It is available. We are ready to give it to you in bucketfuls at reasonable interest rates. ' I have never in my life seen such a total lack of financial control applied by any administration. Yet now, nearly 2 years later, we hear these baneful tones: 'The situation is poor, yes, but it will improve, we hope'. And why will it improve? 'Because we are allowing funds to be made available for housing'. 
I hope that the main objective of the Government's home building incentive policies is to stimulate the building industry but, as I have already pointed out, merely increasing the flow of funds to banks and making more money available to government instrumentalities for house and flat construction does not necessarily solve the problem. Only a few days ago in this chamber we debated a Bill to make more money available for public sector housing. The sad fact is that regardless of the injection of additional funds, into the public sector in particular, the capacity of that sector to increase the supply of new housing is severely limited by its own institutional problems which include those of tendering, approvals, loans and associated matters. All of these take time, and we are talking about a lead time of between 6 and 9 months. For this fundamental reason, regardless of the amount of money which is now suddenly being injected into the economy ostensibly for the construction of houses, it is unlikely there will be a significant increase in public sector or private sector housing within the next 12 months. In my own State it is the wish of the Government to construct 13,000 new home units but, in fact, there could well be a shortfall due to delays within the system as it presently exists. 
The housing industry obviously needs a significant increase in commencements and approvals for commencements if, in the next few months, it is going to be able to live out the extraordinary situation in which it has found itself. The unfortunate fact is that the housing industry in Australia has had to bear the brunt of the present Government's stop-go monetary policies. Because of its position as a leading indicator in the general business cycle it has far reaching ramifications throughout the entire economy. But we cannot forever go on using the housing industry as a means for total control of the economy in times of overheating. It is neither possible nor desirable to insulate housing finance entirely from the rest of the monetary system. On the other hand, there is no reason why we should discriminate against it especially as, as has been pointed out by many of my colleagues, we are dealing with a social welfare question- the right of every Australian citizen, regardless of his income, or whether married or single, to have a decent house and to make decisions which are to their advantage and therefore to the advantage of the community. 
At present the loan of $22,500, which is available through the Commonwealth Bank, is only enough to purchase the most modest flat in the southern suburbs of Sydney. That loan requires repayments of $161 a month or a quarter of the average salary. In that formula, in accordance with this legislation and standard bank practice, the wife's income is not to be considered for purposes of lending criteria. The minimum cost of a home in Sydney- I emphasise a very modest home- is $26,000 and a loan of 75 per cent of that amount would require repayments of approximately $ 1 70 a month or gross earnings of $640 a month or more than $7,500 a year. What is to become of all the people who earn a lot less than that amount? Here I am talking about more than 50 per cent of Australia's population. The fact is that the Government has allowed an important gap to be created between the minimum income for savings bank loans requiring one quarter of the annual salary in monthly repayments and the maximum income, which at present is $120 a week, allowed for loans from terminating building societies. There is a considerable gap between $120 and $160 a week of gross salary which is not covered at present by any lending institution. The people concerned represent a substantial segment of the wage earning community of Australia. 
We know, even if the Minister does not wish to appreciate it, that the building industry is one of high turnover and it is able to keep itself as an economically viable operation only while it can maintain low average costs and eliminate considerable wastage. It is in times like these- with a run down of the entire industry, when labour has to go to other sectors of the economy and when supplies are building up in warehouses, whereas a few months ago they did not even exist- that is an example of the chaos which has been developed in the industry, especially in the last 6 months due to the present Government. It is all very well to say that by putting funds into the hands of the public sector builders can go and build for housing commissions. The fact is that some 15 builders are tendering for each government contract in New South Wales. This causes additional delays and fragmentation within the industry. Above all else, only one builder will win the contract. What about the other fourteen? 
Yes, and the others go to the wall. Perhaps it is the object of the Government to make the big bigger and to wipe out the middle man. So will die the incentive of the Australian people. 
Amendments negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-On behalf of the Opposition, I am leading the debate on this very important subject, the establishment of the Australian Development Assistance Agency. This Agency has in fact been in operation for almost 12 months. It is a great disappointment, especially to the Opposition, that during this time the Government has failed to come forward with guidelines to advise the Australian people of exactly how it proposes its aid programs will be carried out. Australia's foreign relations should today be considered not merely in terms of the legal and constitutional framework of sovereignty and statehood, law making and war making, but rather as a product of the complex interplay of international, transnational and domestic influences. It is within this context in particular that we must see the role of the proposed Australian Development Assistance Agency, for it does represent a quite fundamental departure from the long standing view that aid policy is strictly a function of foreign policy. Consequently the administration of Australia's aid program involves considerations which go far beyond the restructuring of a government instrumentality. 
The real issue which we must debate is whether the establishment of this Agency will materially improve Australia's capacity to help overcome the problems of development in its various aspects. There is undoubtedly a tendency among developed countries in particular to see and interpret the problems of the less developed world as reflected through their own experience. For this reason the mere granting of foreign aid as a vehicle for international charity must be discounted in favour of an acceptance of the fact that the conditions of serious under development which affect so many countries in our own region cannot be solved merely by making them the recipients ad infinitum of various forms of charity. Today it is not sufficient that people, nations and governments should attempt to overcome the problems of others by assuaging their own troubled consciences. Putting it quite simply, foreign aid is of little use unless it materially helps the recipient countries to overcome their major economic and social problems. There is no point in accepting students, for example, under the Colombo Plan unless we are sure that on their return they will be employed in the fields for which they were given training paid for by the Australian people. Unfortunately, from my own experience as a past representative of Australia on the Colombo Plan Council, there is often a very great discrepancy between the bank of expertise which has been built up in developing countries, paid for and assisted by countries such as Australia, and the efforts those recipient countries make in using those people. 
Because of Australia's position within the Asian and Pacific region there can be no question that the long term economic and social well being of our neighbours is of paramount importance towards maintaining progress and stability within the region. Unlike the majority of members of the Western donor consortium known as the Development Assistance Committee, DAC, we must face serious development problems in the region which far transcend global or humanitarian considerations alone. Unless there can be real economic advancement for all the peoples of the world the capacity of the developed world to increase and develop trading relationships with the more populous nations of the world will remain limited. Thus the issue of international development in its broadest context must remain a major consideration in the formulation of Australia 's foreign policy and our trade policy as well. 
In this context we must ask whether the proposed Development Assistant Agency is able in terms of the present Bill to project this important factor into the focus of Australia's overall foreign relationships. According to the Bill, the functions and powers of the ADAA are fairly vague and emphasise the administration of aid policy rather than its cohesive development. Clause5 (c) states that the Agency is to advise the Minister on matters relating to aid to developing countries. This is a very general authority and would suggest that in the final analysis the role of the agency will depend upon the attitude of the Minister and his relationship with the Director-General, who I understand is now to be called merely the Director, does this suggest that the Agency is being downgraded by the present Government? . Therefore the Bill fails to acknowledge the need for close co-ordination by the agency with the Department of Foreign Affairs. Also the organisational structure as set out in the Bill tells us little about the Agency's future role in policy making other than that it will administer development assistance programs. Since its establishment last year the Agency has expanded rapidly, and it now has 3 first assistant secretaries, 10 assistant secretaries and employs about 480 officers, many of whom came from the old Department of Territories and the Aid Branch of the Department of Foreign Affairs. Naturally the Agency is deeply concerned with Australia's assistance to Papua New Guinea. We notice that 2 branches of the Agency are exclusively involved in this field. In addition it is worth pointing out that there is a separate Papua New Guinea office attached to the Department of Foreign Affairs with its own economic branch and in the Department of Foreign Affairs there is also a Papua New Guinea section which is supposed to examine Australia's political associations with that country. Also we have seen in recent weeks the establishment of a new division of economic relations. That handles matters such as aid policy related to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the United Nations Committee for Trade and Development and various United Nations and regional economic agencies. 
It must be questioned therefore whether these various branches and sections, which although under the same Minister also relate to no fewer than 3 other departments of State, are able to be effectively co-ordinated. It is quite clear on the basis of the Bill that apparently it is not the function of the Aid Agency to carry out this administrative function. Regrettably therefore it is not unreasonable to assume that the Aid agency should be seen merely as a body to co-ordinate the supply of aid and to put up to the Minister proposals for Australian aid programs in the future, but it will not be strong enough to carry out the similar responsibilities which have been in the hands of its counterpart in Canada, for example, where the Canadian aid assistance organisation has a very real part to play not only in the formulation of aid policy and in the carrying out of aid programs but also in the total ramifications of Canadian policy in respect to the less developed countries of the world. Unfortunately therefore these recent organisational changes which I have noted do not help us to ascertain where the overall co-ordinating responsibility will lie. Sweden, like Canada, has also established an aid agency. They were established to enable the co-ordination of both bilateral and multilateral policies including aid policies. In those countries they appear to have been effective. We can only hope that the same situation will apply in Australia, but unfortunately the indications are that this will not be the case. 
I am seriously concerned that the proposed Aid Agency will become little more than a body responsible for the implementation of aid programs that are decided upon by other agencies of Government. If this should be the case it is questionable whether the establishment of a separate agency is really justified. It can be justified only if it has an effective co-ordinating role. I doubt whether the Agency as presently planned and staffed is able to carry out such an important function. Australia has been a major aid donor in a fairly modest manner for more than 25 years. By the end of the current financial year, based on the estimates provided in the 1974-75 Budget, Australia will have made available a total of $2,650m to developing countries, more than half of which has been provided to Papua New Guinea. 
If the Government's recent undertaking to the World Food Conference is taken into account, our development assistance for the current financial year will amount to more than $350m with a further $ 1 87m going to Papua New Guinea. According to the formula used by the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development among the donor members, Australia's performance is a respectable one, especially in terms of official development assistance and the relatively soft conditions under which our aid programs have been instituted. From 1970 to 1972, according to the Development Assistance Committee formula, Australia ranked fourth among donor countries in terms of net official development assistance to developing countries, expressed as a percentage of gross national product. 
It is worth pointing out that whilst the present Government came into power with a promise that our foreign aid would reach a target of .7 per cent of gross national product, the fact of the matter is that in the last 2 financial years the percentage of aid in relation to GNP has amounted to a mere .52 per cent in 1973-74 and in 1974-75 is estimated at .59 per cent. In other words, there is still a fairly significant shortfall. In fact, in real terms taking into account the inflationary factor, Australia's aid contribution has fallen over this time. I make the point that there is no sense in making aid available merely to satisfy some statistical formula. Aid has to be effective. It has to be directed at those sections of communities and societies where it will be effectively implemented. It has been a tradition of Australia's aid policy that aid is given primarily on a bilateral aid basis, that is, where it is requested by the recipient government. There is reasonable logic behind this system. 
It is obvious that a government wishes to maintain its sovereignty and does not wish to be dictated to by foreign powers, especially those that believe that they are better off economically than the recipient country. On the other hand, we have seen in recent years- in the last 2 years in particular- the Sahelian famine in North Africa and the continuous problems in Bangladesh and India. In view of this, perhaps we have to consider on an international basis whether the accepted concepts of sovereignty are satisfactory if thousands of millions of people are to go through their lives in a state of deprivation, to say the least, and in many states famine stalks the land. 
If sovereignty is to be at the cost of these unfortunate people, then perhaps we need to examine in great detail whether aid programs could be better related to the actual situations and whether aid should be given with one basic string attached, namely, that the giver expects that the receiver will use it effectively. It is worth noting that in terms of Australian aid agriculture in 1973-74 has warranted the expenditure of only $3.3m or in percentage terms, 1.4 per cent of our overseas assistance. I think that is a most extraordinary figure and has to be seen in relation to the recent United Nations World Food Conference. Many nations made quite clear at that conference the desperate situation which is facing mankind due to the combined factors of extreme population growth and the inability of many countries to feed their populations. It is quite clear that countries such as Australia, although regarded by many as the bread baskets of the world, cannot be expected to continue indefinitely to supply world food requirements and also expect their peoples through taxation to pay for them. 
The producer of food is as entitled as anybody else to a reasonable return for effort. For this reason, the time is fast approaching when countries such as those which are members of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countriesthe rich oil countries, for example- which do not produce their own food but expect other countries to do it for them must be prepared to make a contribution to assist countries like Australia to increase their food productive potential. It has been shown quite clearly in a recent report published by the Government on the rural industries that Australia could produce probably as much as one-third provided factors such as climate and other important considerations are taken into account. However, unless the Australian farmer is in a position to be guaranteed markets for his production there is no doubt that Australia, like other countries, will be unable to meet the extraordinarily high demands that will be placed upon us. 
The fact which all nations must realise is that aid is fundamentally only a short term solution. We cannot go into the 21st century on the presumption that nations such as India shall always be recipients of assistance from other countries. The only way to solve their problems is fundamentally to make India as close to self sufficiency as possible. It is worth taking into consideration the fact that 3 years ago the Indian crop was of sufficient size that had India been able to utilise the entire production for the needs of the people, in that period they would not have suffered from severe famine. Unfortunately in the case of India, not less than 25 per cent of its production has been lost through various pests, through losses in cartage and so forth. It is reasonable, therefore, to suggest that a country such as Australia could go a long way towards helping to solve this problem if we instituted aid programs directed specifically at ensuring that the maximum part of India's crop, for example, was able to be saved and used to feed people. On many occasions Australian food supplies have rotted on the docks of Bombay and Calcutta because the authorities have been unable to get them to the people in need. We know also in the case of India the incredible problems they face in meeting demands, how in one part of the country there can be famine while in the others there can be floods. These are realitites which have to be faced for what they are, but the fact still remains that unless we can assist these countries to build up their infrastructure to overcome their own domestic problems, there is no reason to believe that nations like Australia will forever be in a position to continue to support the less developed parts of the world. 
Today the world's population is roughly 3.6 billion, of which not less than 2.5 billion live in areas where population stability is not in sight and where there is a high probability that ever greater populations cannot be sustained even at the barest level of sustenance. In general the demographic situation in virtually all of South East Asia, in particular India and Bangladesh, as well as in parts of Latin America and Africa would lead one to suggest, as did Malthus in 1798, that our over-populated world would lead ultimately to a decisive battle between the forces of hunger and the forces of plenty. It is for countries like Australia, therefore, to play a real part not only by providing food surpluses but also by ensuring that our aid programs are directed to major priorities, namely, agricultural growth and population control. 
Unfortunately one cannot succeed without the other. It has been shown quite clearly that until you can build up the domestic infrastructure, both at the agricultural level as well as at the domestic level, there is no reason to expect in these countries that any form of population control will be successful. Society, especially Hindu society, has been based for thousands of years on the premise that sons are not only gifts from heaven but also the economic basis upon which a family can exist. It is simply not sufficient to say to a mother that she must therefore practise birth control merely to limit her family, as this concept at this stage of their development means so little. The horrifying population growth rate which faces countries least able to sustain them undoubtedly will remain unchecked. Almost no success has been obtained in curbing birth rates in India and Egypt, despite the official population control programs, because the initiators have failed to provide the required economic incentives. Unless this is done in the near future we face the virtual certainty of an 80 per cent to a 100 per cent increase in the population of these countries by the turn of the century. Since an effective curb on population growth appears to be impossible in the foreseeable future, we have little choice but to direct our aid programs at assisting those countries to improve their agricultural sector, to increase their grain yields, to develop more effective systems of grain storage, to initiate economically viable land reform programs, and from this base there is a possibility they can develop a more prosperous industrial sector in the future. We cannot escape the fact that the peasant economies place a high premium on manpower and hence a high birth rate is encouraged. An effective population policy can develop only as a result of high rural productivity combined with a desire for a higher standard of living and a more effective urbanisation policy which usually results in reduced fertility. For the developed world to accept that famine and disease are acceptable alternatives to economic development as a solution to population growth is to admit that all our advances in this world, through computers, telecommunications, nuclear energy and other factors, have been a failure. 
-I have now finished. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many foreign nationals are on the non-accredited staff of Embassies, High Commissions and Consulates in Australia and what are their names and designations. 
Which countries with which Australia has diplomatic relations have nationals in Australia employed in trade, shipping, tourism or information-public relations activities on behalf of their governments, or employed in offices associated with governments, and what are their names and designations. 
How many Australian nationals including diplomatic, consular and non-diplomatic are attached to Australian Missions or Australian instrumentalities in those countries. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Can he say how many patrol frigates of the type which the Government proposes to order for the Royal Australian Navy have been ordered for the United States or other Navies. 

 -Mr Speaker, it never ceases to amaze me how a government which has now been in office for 2 years and which celebrated its second anniversary only yesterday is still able to accept a piece of legislation which was first discussed in this House on 24 October 1 972 and at that time was attacked by the then Opposition and now they try to justify it on what can be called at best specious grounds.  Mr Crean,  now the Treasurer, made the point at that time that this Bill was but another one of those deathbed repentances, and the present Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  said then: 
This legislation is an outrage and it deserves the contempt of every decent honest Australian. 
If this is such contemptible legislation I find it difficult to appreciate how, 2 years later, we are being asked by its detractors to extend its period of operation for another 12 months. On that same occasion the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  made the point in this House when he announced the Government's intention to legislate for the control of foreign takeovers which the Government considered would be against the national interest that he was breaking new ground in terms of Australia 's legislation. I emphasise that point. It was new ground. It was not a perfect piece of legislation and it was not considered to be one at that time, as the members of the then Opposition were so quick to point out. But 2 years later we are again being asked to extend the life of the legislation when we still lack specific guidelines. We still do not have legislation which this Parliament can say honestly to the Australian people is up to date, covers the loopholes and is going to do the job. h was for this specific reason that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  today made the point that the decision to extend  this  Act was a dereliction of responsibility and an admission of inexcusable negligence by the present Government. We have learned to our cost in the last 12 months in particular how Australian companies have been squeezed, many of them out of existence, and how capital imports because of controls have been grotesquely limited while foreign companies have still been allowed to import capital into Australia. Much of this money has been used for the purchase of Australian companies. 
We know of the existence of the Interdepartmental Committee on Foreign Takeovers which was established by the present Government. We do not know specifically what the guidelines of that Committee are. Furthermore, we only see the odd Press release advising members of the Parliament and the Australian people of action taken by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  following advice from that Committee. The fact still remains that at the present time there are sufficient loopholes in the existing legislation, of which the Minister has quite obviously been aware for some time. It is because of that specifically that the Opposition has to take the present Government to task for its failure over 2 years to update this legislation and cover these many loopholes. 
I would like to take 2 companies as examples of what has happened. Escor Ltd was a company incorporated on 29 May 1920 under its then name, Grimley Ltd, under the provisions of the New South Wales Companies Act 1 899. Grimley Ltd changed its name to Eastralian Securities Ltd  on 24 September  1970. On 28 February 1974 the name of the company was again changed, to Escor Ltd. On 7 July 1970, shareholders approved a proposal for the merger of Grimley Ltd with 4 subsidiaries of Rail Australia Pty Ltd. This resulted in further takeovers of Paterson Reid and Bruce Ltd, Moynihans Fashion Pty Ltd, Snappy Panties Pty Ltd and Snappy Panties Manufacturing Co. Ltd. Since then, the list of companies taken over has grown further. On 27 August 1971 the company took over Board Mills of Australia. On 22 March 1974 it took over Freighter Franklin Ltd and Frigrite Ltd, and on 2 1 June 1 974 Tutt Bryant Ltd fell within its control. 
On 7 September 1973 the company issued its interim report for the 6 months to 30 June 1973. This is what it said:  it is advised that  Bowater-Ralli  Australia Pty Ltd, a foreign corporation in terms of the Act, - 
That is the Act that this Bill we are debating today seeks to continue -  had disposed of 2,000,000 shares to certain Australian institutions. 
It is interesting to note that among those Australian institutions was the Australian Industry Development Corporation which acquired no less than 900,000 shares. The report states that additionally the corporation was granted by Bowater-Ralli a voting proxy over a further 2,400,000 of the remaining Australian shares held. 
This proxy had the effect of reducing the voting power held by Bowater-Ralli to under 15 per cent, thus enabling Eastralian Securities Limited, or Escor Limited as it is now known, to avoid classification as a foreign company under the Act. 
That is just one example of what has happened. There are others. 
The second example I would like to draw to your attention,  Mr Speaker,  is that of Industrial Equity Ltd, a public company listed on the Australian stock exchanges which has 60 per cent of its capital owned by a New Zealand company known as Brierley Investments Ltd. For the information of honourable members Industrial Equity is a takeover specialist. New Zealand control brought Industrial Equity within the ambit of the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act and several of its takeover attempts were thwarted early in 1973 by a freeze applied by the Foreign Take-overs Committee. To overcome this impediment to its operations, this company decided in November 1973 to sponsor a change in the articles of the company to limit the votes of the New Zealand shareholders to 14.9 per cent of the total votes. This new article was apparently deliberately framed so that the limitation applied to shares registered in certain names but did not take account of the actual beneficial ownership. The New Zealand company exploited the wording of the article within a few months of its adoption by buying more shares but registering them in Australian nominee names, including the company 's merchant bankers. 
When Industrial Equity itself became the target of a takeover offer, the New Zealand parent- this is the significant point- transferred 21 per cent of the shares it owned to an Australian holder to be voted at a shareholders' meeting free of the 14.9 per cent limitation and then transferred them back again to the New Zealand control. In other words, the company transferred the shares back to foreign ownership. By this means, Brierley Investments Ltd exercised approximately 42 per cent of the votes, well above the 15 per cent cut-off to foreign companies under the legislation. Having reverted to a non-foreign status, Industrial Equity promptly announced 2 further takeover offers for Australian companies, Noske Ltd and Narla Minerals N.L. The Foreign Take-overs Committee has been advised of all this but for some reason which I do not understand nothing was done. There is only one conclusion that can be drawn from these 2 cases. It is that there are companies today which are not breaking the law because the law is not tight enough, but simply going around the law. They are making a mockery of the takeovers legislation by claiming not to be foreign companies and by shuffling shares at will to ensure absolute control by the foreign companies. 
There is also evidence that the Foreign Takeovers Committee has failed to take action despite section 8 of the Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Act. Section 8 of the Act reads: 
For the purposes of this Act, a reference to control of the exercise of the right to cast a vote in respect of a share in a company to which this Act applies, or to control of the exercise of the right to cast a vote in respect of a share in any other corporation, shall be read as including a reference to control of that right that is direct or indirect, including control that is exercisable- 
as a result of, or by means of, trusts, agreements, arrangements, understandings and practices, whether or not having legal or equitable force and whether or not based on legal or equitable rights; or 
by reason of a person being in a position to control a corporation or corporations. 
The evidence is quite clear. We cannot keep giving 12-month extensions for a piece of legislation which now has so many holes shot in it that it is a travesty of what a legislative enactment of this House should be. 
-I wish to ask a question without notice of the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Are investigations being conducted into the allegations made last night by the honourable member for Bennelong regarding the recent appointment by the  Deputy  Prime Minister of an office co-ordinator? Is the officer in question a permanent or temporary public servant? Is it a fact that no security examination was made prior to this officer's appointment? 
-The Australian Industry Development Corporation was conceived in controversy, it had a complicated birth and its early years have been less than auspicious. Despite this, the objectives for which the AIDC were established have the support of . the Opposition. For that reason we are supporting this legislation. The important thing to realise is that in just 2 years the AIDC has lost $ 10m on the Australian stock market. Nevertheless, tonight we are debating a piece of legislation proposing to give the same organisation $2S0m, which is half of the total allowed under its Act. The essence of this legislation is directed at what should be the role of foreign investment in Australia's economic recovery? That is how we have to see the situation today and for the foreseeable future. Under this Government capital inflow has fallen from $ 1,534m in 1970-71 to where we have a net capital outflow of $34.6m. The situation was very well covered today in the 'Australian Financial Review' which has already been quoted by numerous honourable members. 
-The headline is worth quoting. It was: 'Paradise Lost by Bungling not by External Forces'. I draw the attention of the House to what the 'Australian Financial Review' said, it is something that all honourable members, including supporters of the Government, would do well to appreciate fully. That paper said: 
For reasons unconnected for once with the vagaries of nature the economic growth of Australia has gone into reverse. Any suggestion that this can be explained in terms of international trends is intelligence-insulting deception. It is quite simply a matter of extremely poor domestic economic management. 
The facts clearly speak for themselves. In the AIDC's report for 1973-74 we are told that during the last financial year this organisation undertook new financial commitments valued at $42m for 28 industrial projects, thus bringing the cumulative total of project commitments undertaken since operations commenced in April 1 97 1 to $157m. As I mentioned earlier, many of these operations are worth while. Unfortunately, however the AIDC has, through its somewhat chequered career, shown quite clearly that it makes entrepreneurial mistakes the same as anyone else. The trouble is that when the AIDC was established it was funded with $50m from Consolidated Revenue, which is taxpayers' money. It is on that basis that we must question whether those who are in charge of the AIDC are making responsible decisions. 

 DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)-Order! The honourable member for Port Adelaide has persisted in interjecting. He is not in his usual place. It makes it very difficult for the Chair to exercise the tolerance that it would like to exercise at this late stage of the proceedings. 
-Yes, the honourable member should play the game. I know it is his last night in school. Recently the AIDC issued a prospectus for raising finance on the Australian market. These funds were to attract interest at between 11 per cent and 11.6 per cent. The interesting fact is that when this issue closed the AIDC had secured only 10 per cent of what it sought. The reason is clear. When the market is now paying 15 per cent plus no one in his right mind will lend money at between 1 1 per cent and 1 1.6 per cent. What is more, this fund raising was not guaranteed by the Government despite the fact that for foreign loan a guarantee is granted. It is important to note from the AIDC report that its shares in companies had a book value last financial year of $22,964,000. Those same shares have a market value- I ask honourable members to mark this well- which has now fallen to $13,463,000. Of course, this is what we must expect. Anyone who has had to put up with the situation which the Australian economy has had to suffer for the last 2 years must appreciate that the AIDC must also suffer like the rest of the community. 
The Australian economy can recover only if there is a substantial increase in net capital equipment investment and net capital inflow. This means that we must be prepared to draw on the funds which are now becoming available from the Arab world. Unfortunately until recently those funds had been available only on the basis of 80 to 190 day terms, which is quite useless for long term or medium term investment. Perhaps now that the Arabs have discovered that by 1980 they will be holding between $350 billion and $500 billion they are now in a better position to regard medium and long term loans as a serious proposition. For the sake of the Western world and for the sake of Australia I sincerely hope this is the case. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table headed 'Total new capital equipment- private manufacturing' which shows the alarming position. I have already sought the concurrence of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean). 

<graphic href="092131197412052_114_13.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. This Government, in its last 2 years in office, had a specific intention to limit and destroy overseas investment in the Australian economy. One of the main ways in which it did this was to apply stringent capital import controls which last year required that no less than 3316 per cent of all imported funds had to be placed with the Reserve Bank. In due course, after the damage was done, the Government discovered it had to reduce this, and it fell to 25 per cent. Then as a face saving operation it reduced it even further to 5 per cent. At last, it has removed it altogether. We are now being asked to approve legislation which is going to give the AIDC, through the Government, the capacity to borrow on the world money markets. What will happen to this money? Is it going to go into the Redcliffe project? Is it going to go into other important national development projects? Or are we going to see a reasonable amount of it squandered once again on the share markets of Australia? 
Earlier I referred to the AIDC's intention of borrowing money on the Australian market. According to its prospectus it sought $40m but the loan was subscribed to only 10 per cent of that amount. The report did not contain sufficient information and I doubt that any corporate affairs commission in Australia would have been prepared to accept it on that basis. If we are not careful the AIDC will become the problem child of Australian finance. It will become a bottomless pit to which Government will be expected to make a major contribution, not only from Consolidated Revenue but also in terms of our investment of overseas capital. What is important is that we must get overseas capital back into productive enterprises- back into the private enterprise sector of the Australian economy. If we can do that through the AIDC, well and good. However it is important that the AIDC should not be placed in a position where it can compete for the funds entering Australia, because it simply is not fair to expect private enterprise to be able to compete with a government instrumentality on that basis. This is one of the proposals the Opposition strenuously opposed during the earlier debates on this Bill. I am not prepared, at this stage, to say that this Government is going to give private enterprise a fair deal when compared with the AIDC. 
The foreign investment issue facing Australia is of tremendous importance. The Labor Government quite clearly has failed to appreciate this fact. It promoted the issues of multinational companies and overseas investment for political advantage. Although it attacked overseas interests, Labor has not implemented any additional controls. I brought this matter to the attention of the Treasurer only yesterday. As this is my last speech in this House before the recess I take the opportunity of wishing you  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and through you, the  Speaker,  all honourable members and the staff a happy Christmas. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
) Did he approve of all overseas visits by permanent departmental heads between 2 December 1972 and 18 May 1974. 
Will he provide a complete list of these visits which differentiates between those whose travel was paid for by (a) the Australian Government or ( b) other organisations. 
In the case of the latter, will he provide the names of those permanent heads and the organisations which paid the whole or pan of the fares for their overseas travel. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice. 
How many technicians are involved in maintaining and repairing public telephone facilities throughout Australia. 
What is the total cost in salaries and allowances involved in this service. 
How many public telephones are in service throughout Australia. 
With reference to the take-over of the red telephone service by the Department, how many telephones were in this service, and how many technicians were previously involved by the company in maintaining the red telephones. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it the intention of the Government not to change the existing provisions for tax deductibility of donations to bona fide charitable institutions. 
) If so, will he advise the R.S.P.C.A. and other charitable organisations of the Government's decision. 
If not, will he advise what new criteria will be applied to all previously tax deductible donations. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on his personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many' advisers and consultants have been or are employed by him, and what are their names and salaries. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on his personal staff. 
2 ) What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by him, and what are their names and salaries. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on his personal staff. (2 What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or arc employed by him, and what are their names and salaries. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on his personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by him, and what are their names and salaries. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on the Minister's personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by the Minister, and what are their names and salaries. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on his personal staff. 
What are their names, designation and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by him, and what are their names and salaries. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on his personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by him, and what are their names and salaries. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on his personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by him, and what are their names and salaries. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
How many persons are on the Postmaster-General's personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent of (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by the Postmaster-General, and what are their names and salaries. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on his personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by him, and what are their names and salaries. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on his personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by him, and what are their names and salaries. 
asked the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on his personal staff. 
) What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by him, and what are their names and salaries. 

 Dr Patterson: The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5)1 refer the honourable member to the information provided by the Special Minister of State in his answer to Question No. 1862 published in Hansard of 5 December, 1974, pages 4841-4847. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on his personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by him, and what are their names and salaries. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
How many persons are on the Minister's personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by the Minister, and what are their names and salaries. 
-I direct a question to the Treasurer. Will he confirm or deny that the recent Australian Labor Party Federal Conference, where he and others learned to drive backwards in a desperate attempt to regain votes, cost approximately $100,000, including the cost of accommodation, overtime- including swimming time- transport, installation of a new switchboard and telephones, security, use of parliamentary typing pool staff, and even barbecues. Will the Treasurer advise the House who contributed more towards the staging of the conferencethe taxpayer or the ALP- and what was the exact total public cost of holding the conference? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on the Minister's personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by the Minister and what are their names and salaries. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on his personal staff. 
2 ) What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent, or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by him, and what are their names and salaries. 
-The Opposition accepts that the Australian Industry Development Corporation has a special role to play in helping Australian companies to retain a high degree of ownership against foreign competition. We. also want to ensure that Australian companies are able to protect themselves against overseas takeovers and interests which may not be in Australia's national interest. However, this House has not analysed to date, what is the Australian national interest. Many people, especially those wedded to the concept of private enterprise, believe that the national interest can best be achieved by ensuring that the majority of the Australian people, whether they be workers, manufacturers, employers, capitalists or anything else one wants to call them, are given every opportunity to develop in the best interests of individuals and therefore of the community of which they must form a part. To a socialist government however, the concept of the national interest is not necessarily the same. Such a goverment could define the national interest on the basis that what is good for the socialisation of the factors of exchange, production and distribution is in the national interest. I put this point as clearly as I can because fundamentally it is a question of philosophy which has been the major problem facing the Opposition in relation to this piece of legislation. 
As I said previously, we support the Bill. We support the concept of the need for an Australian Industry Development Corporation to perform a very specific function in the Australian economic climate. However, whether the amendments which have been included in this legislation will achieve that is a matter that we have yet to decide. We believe that much of this legislation will give the AIDC a considerable amount of power which in the future could well be inimical to the individual interests of Australian citizens, although it may well act in the overall interests of a specific Australian government. At the present time the AIDC has a capital of $55m which this Parliament voted from Consolidated Revenue some years ago. In addition to that, following legislation passed in the last parliamentary session, the AIDC can borrow up to $275m. However, to date it has borrowed only $65m. The Opposition therefore does not believe that the Government can seriously argue that an additional $500m fund should be raised for the purpose of investment, where the Government has shown, through its own policies that it has directly contributed towards the position where to date the AIDC has lost an estimated $ 10m on investments. At the present time the AIDC's return on capital is a miserable 1 .6 per cent. 
We are dealing with an instrument of government policy which could have a tremendous impact on the Australia of tomorrow. For that reason, the Opposition believes it is very necessary to examine in detail precisely what the AIDC has done with its funds up to the present time. For example, last year the AIDC made 2 major investments. One related to the 'Ocean Endeavour', which is an off-shore oil rig being constructed near Fremantle, and the other related to Kathleen Investments Ltd. The AIDC owns 25 per cent of the 'Ocean Endeavour'. Another 25 per cent of the project is owned by Ampol Exploration Ltd, while the rest is owned by ODECA Ltd, an American company. This is the largest project which the AIDC participated in last year. The rig is due to be completed within a few months, but because of policies instituted by this Government, and particularly by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  there is every reason to believe that the rig will remain on the Western Australian coast where it will rust because the policies put forward by this Government in relation to oil search are so imprecise that at the present time nobody is prepared to make the necessary investments in Australia's long term energy requirements. There are fewer than 3 rigs, either on-shore or off-shore, operational in or around Australia today, whereas a few years ago we could number them in tens. The international situation is such that the need for oil search must be a paramount aspect of government policy. We have failed to see the Government protect this most important aspect of Australia 's future development. 
I turn now to the National Investment Fund, which is the Fund from which the AIDC is to draw its capital. The Opposition is implacably opposed to the Government's intention to establish the NIF. We do not believe that it is necessary or essential as a means of acquiring by 
Australians control over our national assets. The Opposition believes that the Fund would seriously depress private industry's capacity to obtain funds on the domestic or overseas markets by competing with them on a basically unfair basis. The Fund can be seen as an extension of the Government's desire to extend public ownership and control over a large section of Australian primary and secondary industries and in addition, in view of the recent amendments to the existing legislation, various aspects of national infrastructure. It is appreciated that the Government sees the NIF as a means for marshalling small savings and offering people the attraction of investing in government securities, while at the same time obtaining the benefits of superannuation funds, etc. The fact that such plans would be in open competition with existing unit trusts and superannuation funds controlled by Australian-based life assurance companies and others has been ignored by the Government. We even understand that the Government is proceeding with the intention of establishing a government insurance office, which again is a major aspect of its policy of interference in the private economy of this nation. 
Large amounts of Australian corporate investment have traditionally come from Australian owned and controlled life assurance companies, unit trust and superannuation funds, including the Government's own superannuation fund. As Australia has one of the highest savings rates in the world, and banking legislation which already gives the Government considerable control over liquidity as well as Government loan raising, the Opposition believes that the establishment of the NIF will merely divert existing savings from the well established banking institutions, building societies, unit trusts, credit unions and superannuation funds, and will do nothing to create or develop additional savings from the community. In addition, the legislation to establish the NIF gives the fund unfair advantages over existing savings institutions. I would like to enumerate a few of these. For example, it would appear that" the AIDC intends to link non-superannuation savings plans with temporary life assurance, which brings to investors the deductions permitted by section 82H of the income tax legislation. It must also be appreciated that no savings institutions, with the exception of life assurance companies, are permitted to offer their investors this concession, nor can life assurance companies issue endowment policies equivalent to the NIF's savings plans. 
Furthermore, the proposed Bill does not require the NIF to invest at least 30 per cent of its funds in government and semi-government securities, and 20 per cent in Commonwealth securities, which is presently required of life insurance companies under section 23  (0  of the income tax legislation and self-employed persons establishing their own superannuation funds under section 23 of the same legislation. I believe that the AIDC has declared that it will voluntarily observe the 30/20 rule which I have just mentioned, but there is no evidence in this Bill to suggest that it will be mandatory for the AIDC to do so. Needless to say, the AIDC will have an enormous advantage over private funds, which is unfair under present economic circumstances. The proposed legislation also exempts the NIF from stamp duties charged by the State on investment certificates, insurance policies, etc. Furthermore, the legislation proposes to exempt the AIDC and the NIF from existing State and Territories companies legislation. 
On the basis of past experience, this Parliament has no reason to believe that the information made available in the AIDC's annual report and the failure by relevant Ministers to answer questions on the AIDC's operations will in any way make the AIDC an enterprise which this Parliament is in any sense able to control. In fact, at the present time, as the Parliament should be aware, even the Auditor-General does not have authority over the AIDC's expenditure while he will have control over the NIF expenditure. In view of the privileged position that the AIDC has with regard to the need to report to Parliament, I think that this is an aspect which the Government has failed adequately to cover. Under the circumstances it would appear impossible for Parliament to ensure that NIF investors are required to bear the fair share of all costs incurred by the Corporation unless the AuditorGeneral is empowered to conduct an independent inquiry into the total operations of the AIDC. We are dealing with an organisation which, if established, will be given a very privileged position in the economic and financial infrastructure of this nation. It is not an idle threat to say that unless it is a Bill which adequately covers the loopholes I have mentioned, there is no reason why the Government should expect the Opposition to support this legislation. 
-In a sense we are participating in an historic occasion tonight- historic in the sense that at last Australia has come of age. The members of this Parliament have been given the opportunity to discuss in a basically bipartisan manner the development of the arts of this nation and of a culture which we have been fortunate enough to inherit. It is also historic in the sense that those of us who have taken an interest in this subject have been waiting for nearly 4 months for this debate to take place. On numerous occasions, in fact day after day, we all noted with bated breath the fact that the debate was to take place. Usually the Bill was put at the bottom of the notice paper. We all hoped and waited in anticipation for the debate to take place. Usually it dropped out of sight and was replaced by other legislation which the Government no doubt considered to be of more relevance. 
Fortunately, the final text of this Bill which we have before us does not have as many errors as there have been in many pieces of badly drafted legislation which this House has been forced to debate, usually at times not satisfactory for a serious consideration of the details of the Bills. As I said, we have had at least 4 months to examine this legislation. I regret to say that at no stage during that time did the Government give the Opposition the opportunity to make criticisms which I think are genuine despite the fact that the text as a whole will have the support of the Opposition. We must remember, however, that the Australian Council for the Arts, which has been the interim organisation which has acted on behalf of the Australia Council more or less for the last 2 years, did not start from scratch. It inherited obligations and functions carried out by a number of advisory boards established by previous Liberal and Country Party Governments. I refer, for example, to the Commonwealth Literary Fund, the Commonwealth Art Advisory Board, the former Council for the Arts, the Film and Television Schools, the Commonwealth Assistance to Australian Composers Fund and various other organisations and funds which have operated in the arts scene but which have not, until now, been coherently planned or co-ordinated in any effective way. 
It is our sincere hope that the Australia Council, through its various organisations, will be able to co-ordinate these very important bodies to ensure that every Australian with talent and every Australian with the desire to participate in the cultural heritage of his nation will be given a chance to do so. I think it is only fair to say that whichever party had won the election in 1972 he would be debating a very similar piece of legislation. As I said, I think this is a sign that our nation has indeed come of age. We have passed the stage of the pioneers. We have reached the stage where we can appreciate the benefits of our civilisation. I hope that the people of Australia will be given a real opportunity to develop their culture, their talents, their intellect and their desires to find in humanity and in life a broad experience which can be given only through the arts. 
There are a number of areas, however, which we must examine with considerable criticism, not in a sense of criticism of the legislation as such but on the basis that we must be aware of the problems which could arise in the future. I regret to say that at various times in the last few months various sections of the community have taken serious exception to the fact that the budget of the Australian Council for the Arts, as it then was, increased from $ 1 4m in 1 973-74 to $20m in 1974-75. 1 think that people have to appreciate that culture costs money. It is one of those things that we cannot really have on the cheap and expect to have at the end of it something that is worth the effort involved. At the same time the administrators of these funds must be very sure in accounting to this Parliament that the funds they have expended have in fact been spent in areas of the arts and not wasted on administration. Statements such as that are difficult to apply and very easy to make. If the officers of the Australia Council approach expenditure with the specific intention in mind of getting from every dollar the maximum they can, I am sure that we will be able to achieve this most important end. 
It is our responsibility as the guardians of the people and it is the responsibility of this Parliament as the ultimate jury of the nation to ensure that the funds spent from the taxes paid give to every Australian a measure of return for his investment. Much has been said tonight about the difficulties of relating the arts specifically in terms of elite. We cannot ignore the fact that some people are born with talents; others are not. If the man who is born with talent is to be regarded as a member of an elite- I hope this is not the case but some people would see it in that light- it is still the responsibility of the Council to ensure that those people who show a desire to expand their knowledge and to advance themselves are given the opportunities to do so. At the same time- perhaps this is even more important -it is the responsibility of the Council to ensure that the other people, the consumers of art, who after all are the vast majority of the population, are able to appreciate the art in an environment and at a cost which is to the best advantage of the majority of the people. 
We all know that Australia is a large nation with 90 per cent of its population essentially based on the major capital cities and we know that the people in the middle of this territory will find it very difficult to get their fair share of the arts. These are real problems and real challenges and I am sure that the Council will be able to take them on board, because it must do so. If it is our intention to give every Australian a fair share of his heritage and the advantages open to him, of course the boy from Bourke must ultimately be given at least the opportunity of showing whether he has talent and if he has any, of being able to develop it. It is for this reason that I am pleased that the Australian Council for the Arts up till now has emphasised the need to take culture, drama groups and so forth, out of the cities into the suburbs and elsewhere in Australia. I regard this as being a fundamental aspect of the operation of the Council and as one which must be given high priority. 
There is a real problem, especially in Sydney. As an example, consider the Opera House. The fact is that approximately 80 per cent of the people who visit the Opera House come from 2 areas of Sydney- the north shore and the eastern suburbs. I do not think this is satisfactory and I am sure no other honourable member of this House would either. But the fact remains that there is a difficulty when we get to the point where culture is priced out of the market. A very limited section of the Australian community can afford to spend $18, $20 or even $25 for a man and his wife to go to the theatre. If this problem can be overcome in the foreseeable future I am sure we Will all gain from it, but regrettably I do not think it wil be. The trend in the last few years in fact has been that private entrepreneurs in the field of culture have tended to go to the wall. Apart from J. C. Williamson and a small group of others, today in Australia there are very few major entrepreneurial groups in existence. 
To bring to Australia Joan Sutherland, for example, with associated expenses, costs anything up to $ 1m. Very few people can afford this sort of expense. Therefore the tendency will be, whether we like it or not, that it will be left to the Council to have to develop in this field. However, the danger which this W111 bring is the possibility that the Government is to be given, through the Council and through authorities such as this, the ultimate decision on what culture people are to be allowed to see and absorb. I am sure honourable members W111 appreciate that in the long term this is a danger which must be faced. Whether we are to price ourselves out of existence in the field of arts remains to be seen. But every attempt must be made to ensure that this is not the case. 
I turn now to the BUI to make a series of observations on its specific text. Many speakers tonight have referred in particular to Part IV which relates to the composition of boards. Clause 22 (3) states: 
A majority of the members of a Board for the time being shall be persons who practise the arts or are otherwise associated with the arts. 
The Opposition is of the view that the term associated with' is far too narrow and should emphasise above all else the concept of working in the arts. What we are trying to get at is this: It is not sufficient merely to create boards and commissions and so forth made up of actual practitioners; we must also make sure that we have on them the people who will be the purchasers of the arts and above aU those who have had administrative experience in the arts. 
-I draw a distinction between my view and that of the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry).  He implied, whether he meant it or not, that artists and actors lacked the capacity to administer. I am sure he knows, as I do, that there are many artists and actors in our community who would take great offence at such a view. There are many others who are not in gaol and who have been bailed up as bankrupts who,- 1 am sure, are capable of running their own affairs and I am sure they are capable of running a Council and boards of this nature. It is for that reason that we of the Opposition have suggested that, instead of having a ministerial directive to decide who is going to be the  chairman  and vice-chairman and so forth of these committees, the committees ultimately should be given the responsibility of deciding their own office holders. 
Good heavens, we are dealing with mature people, even if they are artists, if I might say that to the honourable member for Franklin. Therefore I think they have a right, a very basic right, to decide whom they want as their chairmen. Those of us who have served in various capacities and organisations would appreciate, I am sure, that if you start off with a premise that you are not capable, or not considered capable, of deciding who is going to be your  chairman,  then the attitude you are going to adopt to the operation of the committee or commission will be, to say the least, less than satisfactory. I would like to see the Government accept that point of view. If it is not going to include it in the text of this Bill at least it should advise the Australian Council that it is not going to take a hard line on this question and that in fact committees will be given the choice of whom they want to elect as chairmen and let them get on with the job. 
There also is a close relationship between this question and the degree of independence which these committees must be given under their democratically elected chairmen because, as with any large organisation of this nature, we are running a real risk of the octopus syndrome- the heart hes in the middle, the tentacles go out in all directions to the various areas of the arts, but ultimately they are all directed back towards the centre and the administrative section of the centre grows and grows in accordance with the best Parkinsonian principles. Ultimately the very people who are supposed to be gaining from this august body - 
-Are gobbled up. I thank the honourable member for Angas. This is a danger and it has to be faced, as have others, but I think that if the Government is going to put responsible people on these boards they must be given not necessarily the ultimate decision but certainly a very wide range of freedom of movement because it is the people on the ground, the consumers, the artists, who really know ultimately where their problems he. If the Australia Council is to be established with the specific intention of upgrading Australian art and giving the Australian people a better deal and a wider choice of opportunities it is essential that it be above all else down to earth. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on his personal staff. 
2 ) What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by him, and what are their names and salaries. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on his personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by him, and what are their names and salaries. 
-I draw the attention of the Committee once again to the definition in clause 3 of the Bill which defines a prescribed corporation and broadly covers the corporations which are to be registered. Strangely enough, it omits any reference to public companies or companies which have issued securities to the public. In fact, it appears to follow the prescribed corporations to which parts of this legislation apply and relates also to private companies. It has been indicated, as I understand it, why significant parts of this legislation apply to prescribed corporations, whereas the clear intention, as emphasised by the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  in his second reading speech, is to regulate the activities of registered corporations. There may well be cases where it is intended that certain provisions of the legislation should apply to companies other than registered corporations, but surely there is a case that they should be singled out for special treatment where there is a requirement for this to be the case. 
For example, is it intended that clause 83 ( 1 ) of the Bill should require holders of licences and financial journalists to maintain registers of interests and securities of prescribed corporations thus including, presumably, private companies, although this point is not adequately defined. 
Furthermore, the definition of 'dealing' in clause 3 would presumably cover, in relation to securities, an attempt to induce a person to offer or to make an arrangement, the purpose of which is to secure a gain for any one of the parties concerned. The definition of 'investment adviser' in the same clause of the Bill presumably means a person who in the course of a business- I take that to mean any business- carried on by him or through him advises other persons concerning securities. It would appear clear that the implications of this are quite fantastic. For example, consultants and advisers in various fields, and even solicitors and accountants, are often involved in advising their clients on the handling of their portfolios and securities generally. Is the definition of an investment adviser to cover these sorts of people? Because of the narrowness of the exception in relation to investment advisers, it is quite obvious that such people are clearly caught by the words of the present definition. This is so despite the fact that the activities by which they are caught are in no way intended to be regulated and do not fall within the intended scope of this legislation. Management and financial consultants appear to be an example of persons who would in total innocence find that a particular action with which they may have incidentally been associated will bring them within the confines of this definition. 
-I am one of those members of the Opposition who were denied an opportunity to speak in the second reading debate on this Bill. Many of my constituents are very gravely concerned, not with the fact that there should be legislation of this type but rather with its substance. I take it very seriously indeed that the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  should accuse me and other members of the Opposition of trying deliberately to slow up the proceedings in this House when the Government has taken a deliberate decision to prevent adequate debate on this Bill. If it was a Bill which suggested that trade unions should be brought under the same control as is now being suggested for companies there would be a tremendous yell. What the Government forgets is that the country has to work - 
-I refer again to the comment which I made earlier and to which adequate answers have not been given. I mentioned earlier that no adequate definition was given in the introduction to the matter of a public company. The Attorney-General suggested that we should read Part III of the Bill which deals with the registration of corporations. In clause 45 ( 1) (c) we find reference to financial corporations formed within the limits of Australia and which are public companies, and so on, but still there is no definition of what is a public company. That is the question I asked previously and that is the question which I still require to be answered. 
-The Opposition does not object to the establishment of this Commission per se. What we do want to ensure, however, is that the personnel employed and the objectives of the Commission will be rationally related. In New South Wales, for example, there are about 300 public servants involved in the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission. On the basis of the exercises performed by the present Government in relation to its Public Service expansion in the last 2 years, I think we have every reason to anticipate that at least 300 people will be involved in this Commission. In the definition which has been given concerning the appointment of officers to the Commission I would not like to see the criterion 'knowledge of or experience in public administration' used as a means of bringing into the Commission a substantial number of public servants, thereby diluting the Commission's very real need to ensure that the people at the top are in fact, as they are in the case of the Australian Industry Development Corporation men who are well experienced in the field of commerce, industry and finance. 
-I should like to add to the comments of the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  regarding paragraphs (f), (g) and (j) of clause 20. The Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  no doubt has heard of Parkinson's law.  His  Government has been an avid practitioner of that law during the last 2 years, consequently I honestly question the present formulation of this clause as described in this text. I again emphasise the point made by the honourable member for Curtin, namely, that whatever the Attorney-General may tell us it is not necessarily the law of the land although perhaps he would wish it was at times. Therefore to suggest that this Corporations and Exchange Commission is going to 'develop and facilitate the opportunities for persons to participate in the ownership and control of Australian industry by means of collective investment schemes and improve the performance and efficiency of such schemes' would lead me to suggest one of two things: Either- and this would be a very naive approach- that this Commission is, going to accept the present finance market of Australia, the insurance industry and various other means by which individuals and collective enterprise may invest in stock exchanges and the purchase of shares, debentures and so forth; or, alternatively, that this Commission will set up a new, and in other words, a rival finance organisation. We have seen, in the case of the National Investment Fund, which we debated recently, that this is a trend which clearly runs through the Government's mind when it comes to matters of national finance. There is no evidence to suggest that the Government is prepared to use the existing market structure. There is considerable evidence to suggest that it wants to set up a rival machine at the insurance industry level, at the banking level and in the total money market structure of Australia. We, therefore, ask the Minister to clarify once and for all exactly where the Government stands on this point. 
The finance industry in Australia is viable- at least it was viable when the economy was in a decent shape. However, as we have seen during the last 2 years in particular, some companies have been forced to go to the wall. In normal circumstances the industry as a whole is producing, approximately $700m a year for capital. In terms of the total capitalisation of Australian industry that is not great because the institutions- the large financial bodies including the banks and insurance companies- have always carried the largest section of the demand. I should like the Minister to explain that more fully. I should also like him to explain whether there will be room for State stock exchanges because in paragraph (g) the concept of promoting the establishment of a national stock market would suggest that this is perhaps but another means of centralising control in Canberra- again a basic policy of this Government. In the United States of America, for instance, there is a stock exchange in New York as well as an American Stock Exchange. I presume there are other stock exchanges in some of the other large cities of the United States. I simply want to know whether the proposed national stock market will be established with the full support and co-operation of existing State stock exchanges, or does the Government see this as an additional entity to be added to the existing financial infrastructure? Paragraph (j), as I see it, is closely related to paragraph (f). Paragraph (j) states that as soon as practicable after the commencement of this Part, the Commission is to inquire into the management, activities and performance of mutual funds, unit trust and other collective investment schemes. I take it that under the existing provisions of the Commonwealth Constitution this means that the Commission will have power over existing State corporate affairs commissions and so forth which are already doing precisely this sort of thing. Again I should like to have a full explanation from the Attorney-General as to whether or not this is designed simply to establish another vast bureaucratic machine to compete with existing State instrumentalities. 
I was concerned about the import of clause 60 ( 1 ) concerning the Commission's relevance when it considers it necessary or desirable to advise stock exchanges of the prohibition of trading of specific shares on the stock market. Nowhere in this Bill to date have we seen a reasonable explanation of the relationship between the stock exchanges and the Commission, insofar as the power of the latter presumably is much greater than that of the former; but I would have thought that since it is the actual exchange which has to handle the day to day administration of an exchange in terms of actual buying and selling of shares it should be mandatory on the Commission, if it is in command of facts which it believes to be relevant to trading on the floor, to pass that information on immediately to the actual exchange. This Bill merely states that information is to be passed on in writing. No concept of immediacy is included. I think this is very relevant. It is an important point. There have been many examples in the last few years of shares whose prices have fluctuated greatly on the basis of rumours and so forth. The exchanges have asked for explanations and the answers have usually been 'We do not know anything about it'; but still the rumours persist and the market fluctuates accordingly. Much of this could be overcome if there were a much closer relationship between the proposed Commission and the actual exchanges. 
I return to the point I was trying to make to the AttorneyGeneral earlier. Whilst I appreciate much of his argument, I cannot help but suspect that the whole emphasis of this Bill is on the assumption of guilt;, that the stock exchanges have been wrong per se and therefore it is necessary to introduce this legislation. I think the Minister would agree with me that the circumstances surrounding the last mining boom were unique. They certainly have not occurred for a very great length of time. The same mining boom showed quite clearly that the stock exchanges as then organised were not capable of meeting the requirements of the hour. But there is a distinction between the capacity of the stock exchanges to do the job as we now think they should have done it and the real problem of protecting the investor from himself. I do not see how a man who wishes to gamble can be stopped from putting money on a racehorse any more than he can be stopped from putting money in a share. This is a human weakness, a failing, that we all have. Probably many of us put money in mining shares during the days of the mining boom and, undoubtedly, many of us lost. I want to make that point clear because, in relation to clause 60 ( 1 ), I still do not understand and I do not think anyone else in this chamber understands, on the basis of the explanation given so far, precisely what the role of the Commission will be in relation to the stock exchange. The Minister has said that he expects a close and good relationship to exist, and so on. However, it seems to me that the exchange will be given no authority over its members, and no authority over its own market place- I emphasise that it will still be the market place of the exchange which will be used- and I think that honourable members deserve specific answers to these questions. 
I too would like to lend my voice on the very grave problems which the Opposition has in relation to the substance of clause 61. They have been well enunciated already by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard).  That clause in fact empowers the Governor-General, on the advice of his Government, to do certain things where it is considered necessary or desirable to do so for the alleged protection of persons buying or selling securities or in the interests of the public. The term 'in the interests of the public' is about as nebulous as the phase 'the national interest' which we hear so much from the Government. It is a concept which we find incorporated in much legislation. What the term in fact means is that the Labor Government, lilywhite as it is, would not consider doing anything which was not in the interests of the public. 
I put to the House a case in point. It could involve Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd or, for example, General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd if it had shareholdings in the Australian market. It does not, but we will take it as an example. Recently there was a very major difference of opinion on the question of industrial policy and labour relations between  Dr Cairns  and General Motors. I leave it to the imagination of honourable members to see that it would not be very difficult for any government- of course the Labor Government would not do such a thing- to say: 'All right, if you are not going to co-operate with the policies which we enunciate and which we wish you to carry through we shall use all thepower at our executive command to force you to obey our instructions'. 

I should like to add some words to what has already been said regarding the discriminatory aspects of clause 1 15. Again we have heard, as we heard before the suspension of the sitting for dinner- it is a point that I then had to make and I make it again- that much of this legislation is apparently couched in terminology which presumes that there is a degree of default. Again we have heard the mining boom taken as an example. As I said earlier, there is no question that the situation as pertained then was most unsatisfactory in many respects. Certainly I am well aware that stock exchanges in Australia- certainly the Sydney Stock Exchange, with which I am more familiar- have made substantial changes in their regulatory procedures and so forth, specifically to try to overcome many of the problems which have been raised in the Rae report and elsewhere. 
For example, at present every member company of an exchange is required at the bottom of its statement which is sent out to clients on a monthly basis, to state quite clearly the company's interest in the shares that it is recommending to clients. Perhaps the AttorneyGeneral regards this as being pretty basic, and I think it is, but the point is that it is a real step forward. I think that it is frankly absurd to suggest that only brokers who are members of boards are to be regarded as something different from any other section of the finance industry which, as the Attorney-General is well aware, has very wide ramifications. For example, if the merchant banks are doing their job they are at least as aware of the financial relationships of their clients as is any broker if he is doing his job. To say that a broker- not a broker's employee so much as a specific member of a company which is a member of an exchange- should be denied what I regard to be a not unreasonable interest in companies which he presumably has been asked to join because of his knowledge, is to suggest that the corporate body of Australia, which already does not have that much talent, is to be deprived even of the additional potential of getting good people from the stock exchange. 
I draw a distinction between what I have just said and the point made by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  that some brokers- allegedly again during the period of the mining boom- were associated with companies specifically established to trade in other people's shares. I think we need to make a distinction between that sort of operation and what is obviously a bone fide case.  Sir Ian  Potter was mentioned by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  as the son of gentleman who would be an asset to any board of directors. It is absurd to suggest that such people, with considerable qualifications as he has, should be denied the opportunity to make a very real contribution to the corporate life of the community. 
We have also heard much about the idea that a lot of this legislation allegedly is drawn from the previous American experience. I wonder whether that is the case. Professor Louis Loss, who was brought here last year by the Government to give it advice on this very Bill, was asked the following question: 
Does the SEC - 
That is the American body- have any views on a broker being a director of a company? 
The Professor's reply was: 
As far as I know, and I am quite sure that it does not, it is not suggested that brokers have to go off boards. Nor has there been any great movement that I am aware of in point of fact whereby brokers have gone off boards. But the insider trading laws that the courts have been developing in recent years have made it rather uncomfortable sometimes for brokers to be on boards. The SEC was reaslistic enough to say in a prepared report of some 10 years ago that it is impossible to avoid all conflicts of interest in the securities industry. 
That is the experience in the United States of America. We have heard from the AttorneyGeneral and others how this Bill is supposed to follow that experience. This is one classic instance in which quite obviously the Bill has not done so. I cannot help but deduce from that that the Government is making a very subjective judgment on the basis of a series of specific cases and generalising on an industry. I do not regard that as being particularly fair. I submit to the Minister that a potential conflict of interest can arise whenever a person acts in a dual capacity in almost any sphere of human endeavour. All dealers, whether they be brokers or bankers, can still deal in both large and small blocks of securities; they can operate discretionary accounts; they can manage accounts; they can advise different people on corporate affairs; they can be involved as advisers in takeover situations; and they can participate in the many other activities involved in the capital markets. In fact, all of these people have conflicts of interest. 
I would like the Minister to consider the following proposals: Firstly, that a dealer who, together with associated companies, owns more than, say, 50 per cent of the shareholding in a registered corporation shall not be permitted to be a director of that corporation without the specific approval of the Commission; secondly, that a dealer who is a director of a registered corporation shall not give any advice regarding investments in or the purchase or sale of any securities in that corporation and shall inform any client who requests his assistance of his interest in that corporation; and thirdly, that a dealer who buys of sells securities on his own account or on the account of associated companies or on account of clients of his company in a corporation of which he is a director shall advise the Commission on a monthly basis of the transactions which he has entered into in respect of the company in question. 
-I think it is wise that the Government has decided to remove those Draconian costs which would apply to people who transgress the legislation. As a general comment I think the clause will still as presently drafted create some serious practical difficulties so far as it affects companies' rights and capacities to raise funds on the open market. Companies making a rights issue, for example, have to register the prospectus with the Commission as required by this legislation, and the possibility of an extended delay due to the fact that sub-clause (3) requires the Commission to investigate and satisfy itself that the requirements have been comphed with will make it very difficult for companies to pitch the terms of the issue to meet the requirements of the Commission. The company cannot plan with any degree of certainty as to when the funds will become available and as to whether the Commissioner will necessarily accept the basis on which the issue has been made. 
Sub-clause (7), for example, introduces into Australia, I understand for the first time, the concept that after a prospectus is registered with the Commission and application lists have been opened, the Commission may still cancel the registration. This provision suggests that a cancellation may occur at any time notwithstanding that the company may already have a lot of securities pursuant to the terms and conditions of the original prospectus. Furthermore, cancellation of the registration of a prospectus on this basis may mean that a prospectus has never been in fact registered, and the circularisation of an unregistered prospectus of course is something not permitted under this legislation. It seems grossly inequitable and impracticable to give the Commission such widespread powers to cancel as distinct from withdrawing the registration of a prospectus subsequent to its original registration or at any time without any other limitation on the conditions under such powers being able to be exercised. 
Amendments agreed to. 
-As regards clause 267, I do not want to add very much to what the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has already pointed out, save to say that the drafters of this piece of legislation, although one can appreciate their specific objectives, as the honourable member for Moreton said, of putting in a legislative eavesdropper on all meetings of the stock exchanges and corporations under Part III of the Bill, the fact of the matter surely is that we cannot legislate against actions which people intend to take in this manner, whether they be legal or illegal. I just give another example, if I may add to the one given by the honourable member for Moreton. If a person is a member of a board or committee of a stock exchange or a company registered with a stock exchange and for various reasons he does not wish to have present a gentleman from the Commission, he will simply arrange a private meeting. Presumably this is to be regarded as an illegal act under this legislation. The point I want to make is clear, and that is that if there is a will to transgress the law that will will prevail. I honestly question the legality of and implications associated with allowing public servants to be present at meetings of this type. It is important, as the Attorney-General has pointed out, that everything be above aboard and that the populace to be aware of all of the facts. I go along with all of that. I accept that. I simply question very fundamentally whether this is the way to do it. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on his personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by him, and what are their names and salaries. 
-This Bill is the last gasp of a morally bankrupt Government. We have heard from numerous speakers on the Government side this afternoon about how we the members of the Opposition must have compassion for those in the community who are unable to fund the purchase of their own homes. Yes, we have compassion for the 3 1 1 000 people who are registered as unemployed in this land, for those who have lost their jobs and some of whom have lost their homes, for others who cannot even consider buying homes and for those who cannot even afford to pay the rent. 
-This Government put them on the street. It has taken their jobs from them. It has taken everything from them and now Government members come into this place and ask us to show compassion. Let us just look at the situation in an objective manner. When I made my maiden speech in this House on 1 August 1 974 1 had occasion to say the following:  . . the present Government's management of the economy, since it came into office in December 1972, has failed. Much has been said by Ministers about how they inherited a situation of excess liquidity in the economy. What they have never attempted to answer is that 12 months later the level of liquidity had expanded even further. Although it was obvious in 1973 that the economy was gravely overheated no meaningful policies were introduced and it was not until September 1973 that the Government decided to use monetary and interest policy, currency appreciation and tariff reductions, to control an already alarming inflationary trend. Those policies enabled the Government to end the 1973-74 financial year with a deficit of approximately $400 m less than budgeted for. This is hardly surprising as taxation receipts were $500m above the Budget estimate. 
We are not talking in terms of $500m. We are now talking about a budgetary deficit of $2,500m- money which has to be manufactured on a printing press but ultimately paid for by every citizen in this land. I ask honourable members to consider that with the greatest of care. 
Today in the afternoon Press we saw statistics put out by the Bureau of Statistics which show that the number of privately employed people in Australia dropped by 185 000 during the 6 months ended last December and that the total civilian work force was now 4 788 500. The point was also made that the number of people in government employment rose from 1 197 600 to 2 22 1 200. Here we are debating a piece of legislation which is not going to put one more cent into the pockets of people who need housing but is going to employ hundreds of public servants to ascertain whether State authorities are doing their bidding and whether the Commonwealth can interfere even more in the operations of the private sector of the community which has always worked on the assumption that where there is a demand for housing it shall be met provided interest rates are kept within the capacity of all our citizens to pay. I should not just suspect because it is a fact- that this piece of legislation is but another plank in the Labor Party's policy to interfere in the workings of the economy The Labor platform as indicated on page 4 of the document 'The Labor Way' under the heading Economic Planning ' specifically states: 
With the object of achieving Labor's socialist objectives, establish or extend public enterprise, where appropriate by nationalisation, particularly- 
This is what we must note-  in the fields of banking, consumer finance, insurance, marketing, housing- 
Note that one, housing-  stevedoring, transport and in areas of anti-social private monopolies. 
All of a sudden it is anti-social private monopoly. That 80-odd per cent of the houses of this land which have always been purchased by the people of Australia are built by the private sector which is allegedly of monopoly and therefore anti-social. There is only one piece of respectable phraseology in this entire Bill, and it is that which the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  stated in his second reading speech that he hopes- I emphasise the words 'he hopes'- this Corporation will open the way for the resources and initiatives of private enterprise to enter a productive partnership with government. I think that is an admirable concept. I think it should be endorsed as it has been by the Opposition What we question and with very good reason is whether this piece of legislation as formulated and as presented to this House is going to be capable of doing that or is it in fact simply going to be another means of separating the ordinary man and his wife and family from their dream, which is to be able to live in a decent house and preferably to be able to purchase that house. I have never known yet how any administration especially when it is an extension to an existing administration established by banks, finance companies, State housing corporations and the like is ever going to build a house for anyone. I suggest that the cost of employing the staff alone will be equivalent to the cost of some thousands of houses over a period of years. 
The problems which we see with this Bill are essentially twofold. Firstly, it is so broad and vague in its definition of the Corporation's powers that it inevitably will lead to confusion and duplication of functions of the existing public and private institutions. I hope I have made that point clear. Secondly, the Corporation usurps the role of the States and increases the scope for direct Australian Government intervention and involvement in the development of shelter industries which it allegedly is supposed to be assisting. 
The fundamental principle which the Liberal Party has enunciated in the field of housing is that it is the responsibility of the Australian Government to ensure that the housing industry, both private and public sectors, should have the necessary resources of land, labour, materials and finance available at all times to meet the social needs of the community. Having provided guidelines and the necessary framework, it leaves to the entrepreneurs and to the State governments the job of designing specific programs for the assistance of the private sector, and expects the private sector to carry out that responsibility. This point has not been emphasised by the Government in this Bill. 
Accordingly, we do support initiatives which provide greater opportunities for the housing industry to produce more houses and to increase the quality and quantity of dwelling units, which is consistent with the particular local needs of the community. The Minister has stressed repeatedly the role of private industry. This is comforting. But the historical record of this Government quite clearly shows that it is unlikely that this Commission will be able to carry out a policy which will assist private industry to meet its very real responsibility in the field of housing. We believe the areas of finance are proper avenues for Australian Government intervention. But we question the proposed action suggested by this legislation. We regard the development areas as being no concern of the Government and as best left to the States and private enterprise. If the appropriate framework and incentives are provided, there is absolutely no need for further centralisation. I fail to see, in a country as large as Australia, how any form of centralisation will result in increased productivity. 
The point has been made by numerous speakers that interest rates have been the greatest cross which the people have had to carry in relation to their demands for housing. The position has become worse. Not only have interest rates increased because of the specific policies of this Government but, worse than that, inflation has put for many housing well beyond the capacity of the average Australian to purchase. About 4 months ago, speaking in this House also on housing policy, I made the point that the average house cost about $25,000. On further examination, and bearing in mind that the cost of building has gone up by approximately 25 per cent, it is more realistic to talk about an average cost for a house, which is not by any means exessive as being around $30,000. 
Let me quote these figures to illustrate the position. The minimum deposit required in Victoria on a house, the purchase price of which is $30,000, is $6,000 or 20 per cent of the total cost. A maximum first mortgage of $24,000 is available. That sum may be borrowed at 1014 per cent interest from the State Savings Bank of Victoria, at 10 per cent interest from the Commonwealth Savings Bank and at 12% per cent interest from permanent building societies. The important point is this: Average weekly earnings today are still approximately $120. That gives a monthly earnings figure of between $476 and $480. The gross weekly salary required to service a loan of that size varies between $190 and $269, depending on the number of years required to repay the loan. The Minister, I am sure, appreciates that this figure is well above the one-quarter which is the basic requirement of most building societies and banking institutions. The mere allowance of $5,000 as proposed by this legislation will not go very far in helping to bridge the deposit gap about which we have heard so much. 
We have been told also that this Corporation will be administering the deferred payments scheme. I would like the people of Australia and the members of this House, whether they wish to listen or not, to appreciate that the deferred payments scheme was first proposed by the Opposition on 13 January 1974. This is but another example of how our policies have been stolen by this Government and incorporated in its legislation. I appreciate that. It is splendid to see that the Government is prepared to understand that even we in the Opposition are capable of decent ideas. I emphasise a point which has been made by others: We are an Opposition of compassion; indeed, the Liberal Party has as a specific objective the uplifting of all Australian people. We are not interested in dividing this nation, the way in which the Government has done. We are not interested in making one section any better assisted than other sections. We want to see a Bill which is based on the precise presumption that it is the role of government to assist all people to better themselves and especially to help those at the bottom end of the financial ladder to be able to take themselves up. 
This legislation, if amended, to some extent could do that. But, in doing so, we notice that in his second reading speech the Minister has made certain exceptions. For example public servants, though he does not say exactly what specific public servants he refers to, and others are going to be given special treatment. 
-I think the Minister should explain precisely what he means by what is in his speech. On the basis of the salaries already being paid right throughout the Public Service, and the pace setting principles that have been enunciated by this Government, I would have thought that public servants on the whole are in a much better position to pay interest rates than a number of people in the private sector who, as a result of Labor's policies, are in every sense of the words on their uppers'. If the Minister questions the point that I made, I refer him to his second reading speech at page 284 of Hansard of 13 February 1975, in which the Minister said: 
These may include, if the Government so decides- any future government- persons living in the Australian Capital Territory- 
As the Minister is aware, such persons are already assisted as they have always been by successive governments:  and the Northern Territory- 
Again, that is a specific case:  migrants, students, Aborigines- 
And this is the point I made:  and persons engaged in work for the Australian Government. 

 Mr Minister, I think you must explain that point more fully. That is all I ask. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on the Minister's personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by the Minister, and what are their names and salaries. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on his personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by him, and what are their names and salaries. 
I wish to address myself to clause 2(a) ofthe Government's amendments to the BUI. The pot-pourri of wonders proposed by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson),  covers a variety of subjects some of which could best be handled by existing national institutions and policy options which have already been covered by existing State institutions. Various speakers in this debate have already made the point that the State housing authorities will in many ways be in direct competition with the Australian Housing Corporation. Therefore the problems which the Government is trying to solve are so massive in scope that I would like full clarification from the Minister as to precisely how he sees the State authorities working in with the proposed Corporation. 
For example, the Minister has suggested that the first undertaking of the Corporation would be a second mortgage scheme to help eliminate the deposit gap for selected newly married couples. This point was recently made by a Government speaker. Apart from being a soft of partial, discriminatory approach- which this Government allegedly abhors but which it has shown to the people of Australia in many ways that it relishes- I venture to suggest that it has failed to go to the crux of the existing problem. The reason why some 20 per cent of Australians require a second mortgage at the present time is that our existing home finance system is obviously inadequate in that it lends at too low a percentage of the total value. There is no good reason of which I am aware why the deposit gap should not be raised to a much higher level as we find, for example, in both the United States of America and Canada. The Government could encourage savings banks and building societies to lend to, say, 90 per cent of valuation rather than around 75 per cent which is the average figure at the moment. 
Furthermore, I see no reason why the Government should not arrange for the banks, which it has power to do, to take family income into account when granting loans rather than male income only, which is the system under which banks and financial institutions operate at the moment. If this were done the eligibility for first home borrowers in terms of existing qualifications would obviously be much greater and therefore the area within the existing demand and supply structure of the economy to meet requirements for finance would also be larger. To the extent that this increases lenders' riskswhich would undoubtedly be one of the arguments brought against it- in my opinion it could be totally met by utilising the existing Housing Loans Insurance Corporation cover which could be well used especially in cases of second mortgages. This is an area which, in my opinion, the Government has not covered in this Bill. It is one which could easily be arranged with a minimum of administrative inconvenience or difficulty. Under the circumstances the HLIC should be incorporated within the Australian Housing Corporation. Again this has not been done in this legislation. 
We need hardly look further in terms of the proliferation of government instrumentalities. There are quite enough of them already. I merely want to see a serious attempt by the Government to rationalise its approach to housing. The Minister's ideas would be very costly in terms of the existing legislation and would simply add another bandage- that is all it is- to an existing system which is creaking under the pressures being brought to bear upon it because of the breakdown in the financial system caused by bis Government's policies. Finally, we do not need more institutions involved in housing finance but rather greater efficiency on the part of the existing ones to meet the very real demand of the Australian people. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on the Minister's personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by the Minister, and what are their names and salaries. 
I recognise, as do most members of this Parliament, the need for divorce law reform. I support the objectives of this Bill which are to make uniform provisions in areas of family law outside divorce and to provide for the establishment of family courts. The primary purpose of the Bill is the reform of existing law on divorce and it is on this basis that the substance of the Bill must be tested. As I am not a member of the legal fraternity my concern with this legislation is specifically directed at ascertaining whether the proposals in the Bill will overcome the present problems arising out of divorce. Clause 43 (a) of the Bill provides that the family court in the exercise of its jurisdiction shall have regard to the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage as the union of a man and a woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered into for life. 
It is necessary to test the provisions of the Bill against this fundamental proposition which, I believe, is one which would have the support of the vast majority of the Australian people. There has been criticism that this Bill will destroy the institution of marriage. It is worth noting that when the Barwick divorce Act was being debated in 1959 similar dire prophecies of doom were being made but the experience following the implementation of that legislation does not support such an extreme contention. On the other hand, I do not believe that the Bill as presently drafted would adequately overcome all the very real social problems associated with divorce which it sets out to achieve. 
If we accept the proposition that the Bill is to protect the institution of marriage, then we must also accept that the Bill should ensure that divorce is taken as a final resort rather than as a means of overcoming personal differences which, on occasion, could be solved by less extreme means. It is creditable that the Bill introduces improved provisions for counselling but there is no mandatory provision for those seeking a divorce to have attempted a reconciliation through a marriage counsellor and the sole ground for divorce remains the condition of 12 months separation. Conseqently, in my opinion, the Bill does not adequately ensure that the court must have adequate regard for the principles noted in clause 43, all of which I believe are commendable. 
The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  has already expressed reservations concerning the establishment of a Federal family court in addition to the State family courts. I, too, share his concern on this matter. In this lengthy debate I have not yet heard adequate arguments in favour of an additional level of Federal courts. Furthermore, if we are to take at face value the proposition made by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  that this legislation will update the legal machine in accordance with prevailing social attitudes, I question whether the appointment of Federal judges who, under the Constitution, are appointed for life would adequately meet this important requirement. I would have thought that with the passage of time senior judges might well find themselves in some difficulty in adjudicating divorce settlements when their own social values were fashioned in an earlier age. For this reason, amongst others, I would prefer to see greater use being made of the proposed State family courts where judges will retire at 65 years of age and that the proposal for Federal courts could be thus abandoned. 
In this context I also question the costs of establishing a very considerable family court infrastructure, in view of the limited number of appropriately qualified persons from the bar, especially in the case of New South Wales, could cause a relative fall in the standard of the judiciary with the result that the very people- the litigants whom this Bill is supposed to help- will probably have to incur increased costs in their search for a satisfactory divorce settlement. It should be quite sufficient for the State family courts to have full jurisdiction and for appeals to be directed to the High Court when necessary. 
The major area of contention concerning this Bill is associated with the implications of clause 48, the so-called no-fault ground for divorce associated with the judgment as to whether the marriage has broken down irretrievably. The test of this, according to the Bill, is separation of the couple for a period of one year. Clause 48 also proposes that the marriage should be dissolved only when a court is satisfied on objective grounds that the marriage has irretrievably broken down or that the parties have lived separately and apart for not less than 2 years. 
The concept of no fault has obvious attractions as it removes the present need for one party to prove that the other is at fault. The need for discretionary statements and so on will therefore be dropped. I think this is a very good idea. On the other hand, the court making its objective judgment as to whether the marriage has in fact broken down to an irretrievable extent must take into account, as I see it, the conduct of the parties concerned. This does not mean that the concept of no fault totally removes the need for an objective judgment on these grounds. It is impossible to reach a judgment without considering aspects of conduct. It is within this context, as I mentioned earlier, that it should be mandatory for parties to a divorce to have sought the guidance of a marriage counsellor before proceeding to court. 
At the Committee stage I should like to move an amendment to clause 14(6) to make it mandatory and, secondly, that the court should also consider any exceptional circumstances should the services of a marriage counsellor be not required or utilised. It is important to note in this context that the persons who are going to be appointed as marriage cousellors must be of the highest integrity as their relevance to the ultimate satisfaction of problems between people is of primary concern. 
The honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  has foreshadowed amendments to clause 48 which will increase the period of separation to 2 years and introduce a provision for an immediate divorce based on grave and weighty reasons for such a course of action. I am frankly surprised that a piece of legislation which, it is alleged, is an important breakthrough in the field of divorce law reform has not made adequate provision within this context, especially as the existing law, despite its shortcomings, does give people the opportunity for immediate relief. The Bill does provide for injunctions to be taken by one party to prevent the other pursuing a course of conduct detrimental to the marriage. There was provision for this in the existing legislation although, in fact, it was seldom used. Notwithstanding this, there are many situations which would make it obvious that merely expecting one party to a marriage to live apart from the other for 12 months, due to conduct which makes cohabitation quite impossible, must require an immediate ground. For this reason I shall support the amendment which the honourable member for Bennelong intends to move. With regard to the proposal that 12 months separation is sufficient evidence that the marriage has irretrievably broken down, when both parties genuinely wish a divorce, I am of the view that mere separation at the whim of one party does not constitute a satisfactory ground for divorce and that the period should be extended to 2 years. This extension of time would not only ensure that every attempt is made by both parties to resume their marriage but would also act as a deterrent to those who believe that they may enter the marriage contract with the expectation that should they fail to make their cohabitation mutually satisfactory they may seek a divorce after a mere 12 months separation. 
Having said that, I still believe that the vast majority of people enter marriage in the expectation that it will be a union for life. I believe quite firmly that even though no court can as a general rule decree specific performance of a contract based on personal services, which is the substance of the marriage contract, at the same time marriage can become a complete sham when one or both parties refuse to co-operate with the other to make the marriage a viable and effective union. When such a situation occurs and the court has ensured that every reasonable attempt has been made to achieve a reconciliation, then obviously divorce is the only effective remedy. 
It is an unfortunate fact that a substantial number of young people have been forced into marriage due to the pressures of society over the ages. This is now changing but it is still emphasised by the fact that many marriages in Australia are entered into as a result of pregnancy, as evidenced by the high number of births previous to the first 9 months of marriage. It can be argued that many people enter into marriage for the wrong motives and, consequently, there is a growing need to ensure that marriage counselling is introduced at the high school level so that all children are taught to have a respect for and an appreciation of the institution of marriage which, I believe, will remain the foundation of our society for many years to come. 
I wish now to refer to the maintenance provisions of this Bill. Clause 72 states that a party to a marriage is liable to maintain the other party to the extent that the first mentioned party is reasonably able to do so if, and only if, the other party is unable to support himself or herself adequately. This clause sets the tone and the philosophy of the succeeding provisions. It is implicit in the Bill that if a wife can work, regardless of fault which terminated her marriage, then she must work. In fact, the onus is quite clearly on the woman to show that she cannot work and not on the husband to show why he should not pay maintenance, which is provided for in existing legislation. 
I emphasise that I support the realisation by society of the principle that women have every right to plan and conduct their lives in a manner which gives them a wider choice as to the role they may wish to play both within society and within the marital relationship, an important part of which, of course, is the bearing of children and ensuring that they are adequately cared for. I fully support the presumption that both partners to a marriage are equally responsible for the physical welfare of the children of the marriage. Therefore, in principle, I support the Bill 's contention that they should, in the words of clause 72, be liable to maintain the other party to the extent that they are reasonably able to do so. Furthermore, I support the substance of clause 73 which states: 
The parties to a marriage are liable, according to their respective financial resources, to maintain the children of the marriage who have not attained the age of 1 8 years. 
At the present time the courts do take into account the capacity of both parties when deciding maintenance. But I believe there is a danger in this Bill, emphasising as it does that the principal keystone of the provision should be that husbands and wives are now equal. I respectfully submit that in the vast majority of marriages that is still not so and that most wives enter into marriage on the presumption that their husbands will be the main, but not necessarily the exclusive, provider for the family. On the other hand, I applaud the acceptance in this Bill that a wife through her efforts in maintaining the home and the family has made a very real contribution towards the total family unit and that such contribution should be taken into account in determining any settlement. 
In my view it is a retrograde step that a wife may claim maintenance only up to 12 months from the granting of a divorce. There would no doubt be cases when, for various reasons, circumstances applying at the time of the divorce would alter radically, thus requiring modification of the original maintenance order. For example, a young wife with one child may have been quite prepared not to accept a settlement because she was able to go out to work. If in, say 12 months she had an accident and her child's future was put in doubt because of the maintenance provisions, there would not be a thing that she could do to seek redress under the proposals of this Bill. In the circumstances I believe that clause 75 adequately covers the need to amend the existing legislation with regard to maintenance provisions, and in view of that I question whether clause 72 in its present form is necessary. 
In conclusion I would like to emphasise that I am in agreement with the basic principles of the Bill but that further safeguards are necessary to protect and assist marriages that are at risk but which may not have irretrievably broken down, and that this Bill must effectively ensure that the fairest basis is found for the dissolution of marriage when there is no alternative course of action open to the parties concerned. I believe that the no fault clause is motivated by the desire to ensure that marriage has irretrievably broken down before a divorce is granted and to protect the interests of the aggrieved party from the behaviour of the other. It is my hope that the Bill will proceed through the second reading to the Committee stage where it will be adequately amended to incorporate proposals which are advantageous to the purpose of the Bill and achieve a reasonable consensus. 

 -Mr Speaker, in seconding the amendment moved by the honourable member for Moreton I wish the House and the people of Australia t to appreciate that the world, as well as the people of Australia has been in recent weeks the shocked observer of the tragedy, the final act, of the Vietnam war. We have seen an avalanche of human misery the likes of which man has not known since the worst days of Hitlerite excesses during the Second World War. We have seen a mighty army moving south from North Vietnam. For 3 weeks before the Thieu regime decided to withdraw its forces from the highlands, Highway 1 from the seventeenth parallel to Hanoi was filled bumper to bumper with military transport moving to the south. This was a direct and completely premeditated invasion of South Vietnam. This was not the first invasion of that hapless country but, regrettably, probably it will be the last. 
For over 20 years we have lived with the crisis and the human catastrophe of Vietnam. Mistakes have been numerous; errors were made, by the Americans and their allies in particular, not because the objective was wrong but because we made the fundamental mistake of assuming that mere military might would be able to defeat what was essentially a guerrilla enemy and that mere military power would be able to defeat a very deeply committed Communist movement in Vietnam. Despite these failures in the method of fighting the war there is no reason to say that the reasons for fighting that war were wrong. Australia went into the Vietnam war, in support of the other allies of the South Vietnamese Government, because we believed that our involvement in Vietnam would enable a noncommunist South Vietnam to give its people the prospect of a better future than they would have under a form of government forced upon them by the dictatorship of the North. 
We have been told today by many Government speakers how the North is merely trying to liberate the South and that after all what we are seeing is nothing more than a civil war. I have been to Vietnam. I have worked with the Vietnamese there. With sadness 1 say that I know that with the fall of Saigon many of the people I have known will have no future whatsoever and many of them will be shot. This Labor Government that stands before the world mouthing new standards of intellectual platitudes fails to appreciate the fact that when the Ho Chi Minn Government took over in North Vietnam, with the failure of the French and their withdrawal, over 1 million North Vietnamese were taken from their villages, hamlets and towns and most of them never returned because members of the Communist regime of the North appreciated the fundamental dictum that their power would remain only while they were able to crush, utterly expunge from their society any possibility whatsoever that there would still remain a flicker of freedom in the minds of men. They succeededextremely well. When some years after their takeover there was an uprising in the North, it was years before we found out about it because North Vietnam happens to be a closed society. As has been so well pointed out by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and others, no journalists, except for those who are prepared to peddle the lies and the distortions of the North, are able to move freely in that part of Vietnam. 
When I first went to Vietnam in 1962-1963 I went into the hamlets and saw what was happening to those ordinary simple Vietnamese peasants who defended themselves with wooden guns because they had nothing better and whose only means of communication was to bang 2 sticks against each other so that the fellow a bit further down the road could be warned in time to try to defend himself and his family against the incursions of the Vietcong who would come in the night murdering, looting, plundering and stealing. We are being asked to support that sort of activity. 
The people of Australia have been fortunate enough to be born in a democracy. We have been fortunate enough to be able to stand in this Parliament and argue matters of state because this is a democracy. Yet, for some extraordinary reason one group in this community- the present Government; I refuse to associate it with the culture, character and conscience of the majority of the Australian people- seems to be prepared to take the view that what is to happen must be allowed to happen. The Government believes that it has to be able to get on well with the North Vietnamese Government, therefore let us cut our losses with the South- they are a lost cause- and when it is all over, when the blood is on the floor and someone must come and mop up, the people of Australia will be told in this Parliament in the next Budget debate what will be the Government's budgetary intentions for aid for a united Vietnam. We will be told that we are going to help to rebuild that country. We will be told that the Australian people will have a real opportunity to make a finite contribution to the wellbeing of Vietnam. 
After all these years, after all the pain and after all the blood of honest and honourable men and women who have done nothing wrong except to wish to live in the South and to be able to make decisions of their own free of the dictates of the communists who control the lives and hearts of all those who are unlucky enough to be under their control, what have we to give and what is our message of sympathy? I have heard nothing from the Government today that makes me want to be proud to be an Australian. Over 400 Australian men have died in Vietnam and many other Australian men and women to this day have the courage of their convictions to stay in Vietnam and to work for those poor people in that country who have lost everything but their desire for life and freedom. But today we have heard callousness, of which I am appalled and I hope that other Australians will join me in that sentiment. 
We have been told, quite rightly, by members of the Opposition that the world today is not only complex but also is one in which we cannot regard the future and the past of our fellow human beings with complete equanimity. The future of Vietnam will affect Australia because whether we like it or not we are at the end of the Asian land mass. More important than that, the people who happen to form the community of the Asian nations have been consulted by Liberal governments in the past but more recently they have been told by our great Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who travels the world to express his opinion, how everything must be seen in accordance with the dictates of his will and conscience. But those same people look to Australia and expect from this rich land not crumbs, not just empty words but a real contribution, especially at a time of such need. Last week I took it upon myself to monitor as closely as I could the almost total lack of activity in Australia of this so-called government of compassion. I want the people of this land and this Parliament to know that it was not until the afternoon of last Friday that a submission went to the Government recommending what criteria should be considered for Vietnamese refugees wishing to come to Australia. At the eleventh hour we are finally considering to whom of these hapless people should be offered a second chance. 
I remind this House that November 1973 was the month in which the Paris Accords, of which we have heard so much today, were signed. On that occasion the Prime Minister was prepared to make the point that the conclusion of the cease-fire agreement was a hopeful first step towards a goal of eventual reconciliation of the contending forces in Vietnam. Those lovely mellow tones! But they hide the facts of life. They hide the facts that open, naked aggression was perpetrated in South Vietnam. I am not concerned about the niceties of who the Deputy Prime Minister knows in Hanoi. What I am concerned about is this: If Australian taxpayers are expected to pay millions of dollars a year in foreign aid and to run embassies in Hanoi, Peking, Saigon and Moscow, where is the strong diplomatic right arm which our Prime Minister in his world travels would have other nations believe we possess? Not only do we ride upon the turbulent sea of the future of our nation more or less defenceless, but when it comes to a question of moral virtues and moral standards and the qualities which make every man- whether he be Asian, African, Latin or American- know what is right from wrong, and when those qualities are being examined, where is Australia? 
We fought the First World War essentially over a piece of paper because one small nation was invaded by another great power. We went into the Second World War to remove from Europe and from the world the naked oppression of the Nazi tyranny. We fought the Japanese because they were invading other people's countries. When we fought in Vietnam for what I fundamentally believe to this day was a just cause we found in our midst people who would question the very premise upon which any government of responsibility will found its actions. The sad fact I put to honourable members today is this: The world of simplistic issues is over. The difficulties we will be facing in the remainder of the twentieth century will all be in subjective terms various shades of grey. Not all men will agree on the decisions taken by any government. But if life is sacred, and I believe it is, I believe that the peasant in Vietnam or Cambodia, his child and his refugee wife have got as much right to live in peace and freedom as has any Australian. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on his personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by him, and what are their names and salaries. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on his personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. . 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by him, and what are their names and salaries. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
How many persons are on his personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by him, and what are their names and salaries. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on his personal staff. 
) What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisors and consultants have been or are employed by him, and what are their names and salaries. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) With which countries has Australia concluded double taxation agreements. 
When were these agreements concluded. 
3 ) With which countries are negotiations in progress. 
Which countries have requested negotiations anil when were these requests made. 
With which countries has Australia requested negotiations and when were the requests initiated. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. His Government has believed for some considerable length of time that the fall of South Vietnam and Cambodia was inevitable. Will he advise the House why his Government did not direct the Department of Foreign Affairs and other appropriate departments to prepare in advance comprehensive contingency plans for the relief of Vietnamese refugees and war orphans? Will he also advise the House why it was not until last Friday that an interdepartmental submission was prepared recommending which classifications of refugees should be allowed entry into Australia? What was his decision regarding those classifications? What was the substance of the classifications? How and when will the Government permit, or how does it propose to expedite, the entry of refugees into Australia or elsewhere? 
-The Australian people for some years have been aware of the need for a higher standard of education for their children. This is something we expect in a civilised community in a developed world. At the same time, however, it is important to recall that over the years the percentage of gross domestic product which has been put aside for education, for government schools in particular, has been growing quite substantially. Expenditure is now over 5.6 per cent of gross domestic product and presumably it is only fair to say that it is going to increase even further because education is undoubtedly one of Australia 's greatest growth industries. 
Apart from the fact that many Australians are therefore seriously concerned and are wondering whether in fact they are getting the value from education expenditure which they would expect, the Opposition sees the need to establish an environment in which Australian children receive equal opportunity in education irrespective of whether they come from the cities or remote parts of the continent and regardless of the economic or social position of their parents. Within this context, therefore, the Curriculum Development Centre has a very real part to play and it is for that reason that the Opposition has already made clear, as enunciated by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson),  that we support the Bill. We see the Curriculum Development Centre as being a tool to enable the administrative authorities at both the Federal and State levels to achieve the equality of opportunity which is essential if all Australian children are to be given the real opportunities they, so rightly deserve. 
The functions of the Curriculum Development Centre are set out in clause 5 of the Bill. They are to devise and develop, and to promote and assist in the developing of school curricula and school educational materials; to undertake, promote and assist in research into matters related to school curricula and school education materials; and to collect, assess and disseminate information relevant within this context. The important point to remember, however, is that we want to see that all schools, regardless of whether they are government or private, and whether they are State or Federal schools in terms of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, are given every opportunity to draw on the work which will be done by the Curriculum Development Centre. 
Many Australians are dissatisfied with the substance of the education being given to their children. I hear from many of my own parents and citizens associations and others the constant question: What is the relationship between the work our children are being expected to do at school and their future lives and the environment in which they anticipate living in the future? This is a very major problem. I think for too long there has been a tendency for governments to fail to appreciate the acceleration of change in technology, in the family structure, in marriage and divorce patterns, in mobility rates and the division of labour, in urbanisation, in ethnic and sub-culture conflict and above all in international relations. In other words, we are facing the swift arrival of a future that is radically different from the present. Yet most schools and universities- and certainly their curricula- base their teaching on a tacit belief that tomorrow's world will be basically similar to our own. Consequently curricula must include the totality of normal life experiences as well as try to bring children into an environment where they will be trained and able to face the very real changes which quite obviously will be part of their lives. 
For example, I put to the House a series of questions which children do ask today and which unfortunately existing curricula do not adequately cover. Secondary students are not being taught their rights under hire purchase agreements; how to buy a house; how to complete a tax return or what to claim as deductions; what rights they have if they are arrested by the police; the pros and cons of health insurance and life insurance. In the field of finance, banks are making immense profits because secondary students have not been educated to think in terms of fixed term deposits, building societies, debentures and the stock exchange. H undreds of teenage women fall pregnant because of the inadequacy of existing sex education. Many community services are under-utilised in the fields of law, consumer protection, public service and social welfare simply because of ignorance by individuals who have to use this machinery to enable them to get the best out of the society of which they must form a part. 
I think we should see the Curriculum Development Centre also in terms of the recommendations of the Karmel Committee which indicated in its report some of the future directions that one would expect to anticipate in terms of education. For example, there would be less rather than more centralised control over schools and a responsibility would evolve on teachers, parents and students, the people entrusted with making the decisions, who would also be the people expected to carry them out. It appears to be implicit in this piece of legislation that we are going to be directed towards uniform curricula in all Australian schools. I can see a distinct contradiction between that and the supposition contained in the Karmel Committee report. I do not see the logic in dictating that a child in Bourke, for example, must do exactly the same course or course of subjects as one would find a student doing in, say, Sydney or Melbourne. I think the tendency has been for far too long that the recommendations of the curricula development committees of the various States have been based on the assumption that those who go to secondary school at some stage are going to find themselves in a tertiary education environment, probably universities. It is quite obvious that the percentage of students who ultimately go to universities does not justify this presumption and for that reason I would earnestly suggest to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  that there is a real need to try not only to relate curricula development to the vertical developmentnamely, from the time children first go to preschool right through to the time they finish school- but also to try to relate standards between States to the actual opportunities which are being offered to students and standards of educational attainment in terms of specific subjects. 
The Karmel Committee also mentioned in its report the unequal out-of-school situations which must be compensated for in schools. For example, a child's overall condition of upbringing would be as free of restriction owing to the circumstances of his family as public action through the school could make it. I am sure all parties would support that as a very desirable objective. The Karmel Committee also suggests that there be more diverse forms of schooling and more experimentation with different approaches. New schools would be established which would be radically different in sponsorship and educational approach. There would also be diversity in school community relationships and in the timing of educational experiences. With increased Government aid for nongovernment schools- something which we are still waiting to see- a changed relationship between the 2 educational sectors should result and they would probably be drawn closer together and this would be based, hopefully, on the greater interdependence of government schools and not on the loss of independence of nongovernment schools. 
There would be above all a reappraisal of the relationship of the school to the wider society with increasing inadequacy of education in formal institutions separated from both the home and the working environment. I think these propositions put forward by the Karmel Committee are all well deserving of serious examination. In the development of the Curriculum Development Centre these concepts must be taken in mind. There is, as I mentioned earlier, a very real danger in Australia of over centralisation of a national curriculum. We have States which are responsible for education. They also have their own education development organisation. Although the Minister has pointed out that the States have agreed to the development of this Federal body, I am reliably informed that the States have also- certainly in the case of New South Wales- put forward certain reservations, one of these being that the bodies within the Curriculum Development Centre- the Council for example- do not take into account the need for the States to be specifically represented. The honourable member for Sturt made this point and I merely wish to enunciate it further. 
Turning now to the question of teaching materials, for many years Australia has been in some senses the victim of the Anglo-American book agreement. Since we are one of the world 's greatest consumers of English literature and English books, I think there is a very real need for the development here of Australian texts prepared by Australians for our own educational environment. Within this context I am rather surprised to notice in the Bill that there is provision that the statutory authority will not be expected to pay tax. If it is to enter the market place both as an initiator for the writing of books and, presumably, their distribution and sale, competing therefore with existing book producers, I fail to see the logic of why it should be given special privileges in this field. 
-I thank the Minister for his interjection. I still would like him to explain to us at the conclusion of this debate for example, to what point this Curriculum Development Centre will leave the field of production to private publishers to disseminate the work which, we hope, it may so produce. 
We must remember in relation to the Curriculum Development Centre the importance of increasing the scope for individual opportunity for both students and teachers. In recent times there has been some experimentation with the concept of flexible syllabi. I suspect that what this has done is to make poorer teachers feel that they must follow a more rigid syllabus whereas good teachers, due to the training they have received and because as individuals they may have more imagination, are able to apply a much more flexible approach to their teaching. Again, we have this link between the Curriculum Development Centre, the quality of teachers, the courses they will teach, the standard which they attain, the quality of our remedial teachers and matters of this nature which are absolutely vital. 
Mention was made earlier of the very high rate of illiteracy which' we have in our schools. Recently I visited some schools out in the Green Valley and Mt Druitt areas and spoke to some teachers. To my horror the situation was substantially worse than I had expected. Most of the teachers were prepared to say that no more than 10 per cent of their students at the junior secondary level were fully literate in terms of the standards one would expect of somebody capable of participating fully in the community. That we have to admit in this day that 90 per cent of some children at that level have not achieved this standard is a shocking indictment of the education system that we have applied for far too long. The position has to be improved. In this context when we talk about curricula, are we just considering formal studies or are we to relate the environment in which children are expected to live in the future to what they learn at school? A teacher gave me 2 most interesting examples of this. For example, it is very difficult to teach children, even in places like Liverpool, about animals, fish, the sea and so forth when some of them have not even seen the sea. I would have expected this of students from the far west but I would not have thought that this was the case at Liverpool. Apparently it is. 
Another example drawn to my attention was that when children are taken into the city to see the zoo or the museum teachers cannot get them out of the Central Railway Station because the children are playing on the escalators which they have never seen before. This type of problem is fundamental to the quality of life and to education. It is no good teaching children in an environment which is in complete isolation from the environment in which they are expected to live. I am sure that the Curriculum Development Centre will help to achieve much in this specific field. But above all I hope that the people who will be involved in the development of curricula will be practising teachers who know what they are talking about and that they will not be merely academics trying to apply theories to situations which vary so much throughout this very large continent. As I have mentioned, the need to increase individual opportunity for every child is very real. It is not just a vague term. It is something which can be and must be achieved. 
-Some weeks ago this House had the pleasure of debating in a totally bipartisan manner the establishment of the Australia Council. Once again, tonight, we have the pleasure and the privilege of debating the Bill to establish the National Gallery. I reiterate the point made by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)-  the National Gallery did not just suddenly appear with the advent of the Labor Government in 1972. Although the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  is quite prepared to say that artists could not possibly find any government more amenable to their desires than his own Labor Party, the same could be said of his Party and the unemployed. I wish him to realise that as early as 1 965  Sir Robert  Menzies announced the establishment of the National Art Gallery Committee. Ever since then, successive Prime Ministers have gone out of their way to emphasise the need to establish a national gallery in the national capital in accordance with the original plans laid down by Walter Griffin. 
As I said during the earlier debate on the Australia Council, we have indeed come of age as a nation. We are therefore in a position at last where we can afford a national collection of the highest quality and to have a building in which to place such a collection. The original quotation of the cost of establishment of the National Gallery was some SI 3m. Due to inflation and other factors brought upon us by the present Administration, no doubt this construction will now cost as least $20m. We might even have another Opera House on our hands and the cost could well be higher than that. Regardless of these mundane matters concerning cost, however, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide pointed out the important thing is the quality of life. But when we refer to this excellent term 'quality of life', surely what we must be trying to achieve is an upgrading of the standards of excellence within our community and an appreciation by as many Australians as possible of the beauty and the conception of excellence as seen through the visual and the plastic arts. Since 1973 Canberra has had an estimated I 277 000 visitors annually which is, of course, a fairly substantial number. But then Canberra is the national capital. What concerns me, however, is that of that number only a fraction in fact will visit the National Gallery. Those who will visit the Gallery will probably come merely to goggle at a construction made of iron, cement, ferroconcrete and perhaps a little marble, somewhat similar to the National Library which is situated at the other side of the parliamentary triangle. 
The major problem, therefore, is that the Australian people should be given the opportunity, through our institutions and especially through the National Gallery, to appreciate more than just the tradition of art which we have in Australia. I am very pleased to say that  Mr Mollison  and the other members of the Council have gone out of their way in the last few years to ensure that the national collection has the most excellent cross-section of art since the early days of the colony at Port Phillip. Notwithstanding that, because of our isolated position Australians must also be given the full opportunity to appreciate that we are merely a small segment of mankind, and for that reason we need to build up satisfactory collections of a high standard of Asian, South American, African and European art. This again is something of which the Council has been well aware and is a principle which I certainly would support. 

 Mr Mollison, the Director, has been reported by the Press, probably incorrectly, as suggesting that the Gallery's educational program for schools would consist essentially of lending minor but interesting objects to schools within a radius of approximately 150 miles of Canberra. This again gets to the crux of the problem as I see it. I would be the first to appreciate the obvious technical difficulties of moving collections around Australia. But the facts still remain that Australians, as a nation, are not going to come to Canberra- only a small section does so- and therefore the national collection, which will be the heritage of the Australian people and paid for by them through their taxes, must be taken, to some degree at least, to the State galleries as well as throughout outback Australia. I am not suggesting for a minute that 'Blue Poles', for example, has to be carried around. We then would read ankles about flecks of paint falling off the edges and so forth. This would be unfortunate. We are dealing with very finite objects. But the principle must be accepted and maintained at all costs. In clause 5 of the Bill we notice that nothing prevents the National Gallery extending outside the Australian Capital Territory or outside Australia its exhibitions of works of art from the national collection. I have not doubt whatsoever that on the construction of the Gallery we will see probably on an annual basis the movement of fairly large consignments of Australian art overseas to show the rest of the world the standard of our culture and our excellence. However, I honestly suggest that our first responsibility is to give the Australian people every opportunity to participate in and appreciate this high standard of excellence which undoubtedly we are going to achieve. 
Through the Australia Council various amounts of money have been made available to the Visual Arts Board and so forth to enable an upgrading of the standard of Australian artists. It is worth remembering, however, that in 1974 a survey was carried out in Melbourne which showed that only 3 per cent of all students going through the various technical colleges and so forth to qualify as artists were still practising professional artists one year after graduation. Is this a human cost that we can allow to be perpetrated indefinitely? Why is it that only 3 per cent were still artists? Was it because the other 97 per cent merely wanted to spend two or three years of their lives learning more about art before they went into other aspects of life? Perhaps this is the case. Perhaps, indeed, the standard of excellence will be found in only one per cent of the community. I venture to suggest it is considerably less than that. 
What does disturb me is that in our great search for excellence we might well lose sight of the fact that the national collection in a national gallery we would need to see at any specific time a reasonable amount of work prepared by young artists who obviously have shown a standard of talent but who are not yet fully recognised. It is through a national collection and the fact that their art will be on display that many young artists will be given a first class opportunity which they are not going to get otherwise, unless they are given some form of official recognition by what will in fact be the highest standard of art criticism in Australia. Many Australians, regrettably I believe, have seen the purchase of 'Blue Poles', 'Woman V and so forth as merely flamboyant examples of conspicuous waste but, as I said earlier, I think that Australia should now be a nation which has come of age. We have the right and the need to establish in this nation an appreciation of the depth, the quality and the capacity of the human ability to produce beautiful things. These symbols of beauty must form a part of Australia's future heritage. That is what we are in fact building up- a high standard of excellence, but above all a heritage that we can pass on to our future generations. I commend this Bill to the House. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on the Minister's personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by the Minister, and what are their names and salaries. 
Successive Opposition speakers have emphasised the fact that the Opposition is supporting the principle enunciated in this legislation although, as has been pointed out by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  we would have approached it from perhaps a slightly different point of view. We have questioned, for example, the need for separate training. Our policy always has been that specific and appropriate courses need to be conducted in the existing educational and training institutions to enable trade union education and training to be of the highest level possible and carried out on a parallel basis with all other aspects of education within our community. 
The Minister for Labour and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has quite rightly pointed out in his second reading speech that 53 per cent of the wage and salary earners in Australia belong to trade unions. There can be no doubt whatsoever that in the national interest it is to the benefit of aU Australians that trade unionists in particular be given every opportunity possible to advance their training in their own specific fields to equip them to carry out a specific role within the trade union movement. The relationship in effective industrial relations between capital and labour is something with which we have for too long shilly-shallied around and which we have not been prepared to face straight on. It is perhaps one of the major problems facing the continuity and the development of a sound industrial structure in Australia. For that reason, above all else, the Opposition favours any attempt which is made on a sensible basis to improve the standard of education of trade unionists and their training within Australia 
It is worth pointing out also that the present Government, which came to power with the clarion call that it understood the trade union movement and therefore would bring to Australia a greater degree of continuity, less industrial violence and so forth, has been proved in the last  2Vi  years to have been speaking absolute rot. The working days lost in 1972, for example, were just over 2 million. By 1974 the figure had climbed to an incredible record of 6.292 million days. What about the wages lost? Over the same period there was an increase from $32m in 1972 to $128.3m in 1974. What greater evidence do we need to prove that the industrial base of Australia today and in recent months has shown a greater degree of chaos than this nation has ever known? 
In this legislation it is being proposed for the first time that the taxpayer- Consolidated Revenue- should pay for trade union training. I would like to point out to the House, however, that in other countries- particularly socialist European countries- such as Sweden and Britian as well as Canada and the United States the trend has in fact been for large trade unions to fund their own forms of education. Let us take a few examples. The largest trade union in Sweden, the TLO- namely, the Swedish Central Organisation of Salaried Employees- spends almost as much on education programs as does the Swedish Government. Other unions that are less influential than the TLO also spend substantial amounts. In Great Britain, for example, the Trade Union Congress spends 20 per cent of its annual stg lm budget on education and is erecting its own college at a cost of another stg2m. The General and Municipal Workers Union spends over f stg 100,000 on education and has 2 colleges of its own. The ASTMS- the Association of Scientific, Technical and Managerial Staffs- is also opening a college to train its personnel. There are three other trade union colleges being built in Great Britain at a cost in excess of stg2.5m, paid for out of union funds, not out of the Exchequer. In Canada there is a similar situation with the Labor College of Canada initially set up by 2 universities and which now offers 5 university level subjects. The Canadian Labor Congress also has scholarships to attend such courses offered by Labor unions, industry and governments. Provincial labour federations and councils in the United States have the AFL-CIO, which has established a college for full time degree courses in the Labour Studies Centre in Washington. Scholarships are also made available for poorer unions to send students there, and tuition and other educational expenses at the Centre are paid for by the AFL-CIO. 
In my opinion unions in Australia should make a more substantial contribution than they probably have in the past towards improving the educational standards of their members. However, in this particular case it has been suggested that the unions should not have to pay anything and that the Treasury shall carry the entire cost. Be that as it may, one of the major problems we must face with this question is the danger that the trade unions will become too centralised in the sense that if all courses are to be run through this Authority, there is a very real danger, of which no doubt the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is aware, that if certain ideological sections of the community set out to gain control of this Authority, and in particular control of its syllabus, the implications for the settlement of industrial disputes in Australia is very serious indeed. 
For that reason it is essential, as suggested in the amendment foreshadowed by the Opposition, that we broaden the basis for the Council so that there are representatives of the Federal Parliament from both the Government and the Opposition sides, as well as a representative of the Minister for Education. At least this will be one way in which we can supervise what will be a vital area of industrial relations in Australia to ensure that the courses given, the personnel employed as lecturers and so forth will have as their primary interest the subjects which they are teaching, not merely an attempt to build for themselves an ideological base for later control of certain sections of the industrial community. These are extremely important matters. 
In this context I should like to quote the comments made by Max Ogden, a gentleman very well known in Victorian circles for his rather extreme views on industrial relations. In relation to shop steward schools run by the Victorian Branch of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, he said: 
There is no doubt that it has had quite an impact, as there are numbers of examples where previously docile workers have become active, largely as a result of lessons and experiences taken away from schools. 
He also stated that union education without doubt had had and will continue to have a radicalising effect on the unions. He said: 
Having made the start, our task is to make sure that it expands and, in particular, that union training can help widen and develop the challenge to capitalism. 
We have heard in this House and elsewhere leaders of the Government pointing out on many occasions that the present basis of our economic ills is related to the system under which we are living. But unfortunately we have people like  Mr Ogden  who makes it quite clear that he regards trade union training not as a means of improving the standard of education of the members of the union, not as a means of encouraging them to participate in industrial development, but simply as a challenge to capitalism. In other words, change the system at all costs. If that requires industrial unrest on a mammoth scale, as we have seen in Australia in the last 12 months- at a record level, in fact- we surely must examine the proposals enunciated in the Trade Union Training Authority Bill specifically in those terms. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 13- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 14. 
( 1 ) The Australian Council shall consist of the following part-time members:- 
the Secretary or, if the Minister appoints another officer of the Department to be a member in place of the Secretary, the officer so appointed; 
the Director of the College; 
3 members appointed by the Minister on the nomination of the Australian Council of Trade Unions; 
1 member appointed by the Minister on the nomination of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations; 
1 member appointed by the Minister on the nomination of the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations; and  (0  6  other members, namely, one member appointed by the Minister on the nomination of each of the following Councils:- 
The Labor Council of New South Wales; 
Victorian Trades Hall Council; 
The Trades and Labor Council of Queensland; 
The United Trades and Labor Council of South Australia; 
Trades and Labor Council of Western Australia; and 
Tasmanian Trades and Labor Council. 
-With some sadness I rise to make what will probably be my last comments on the South Vietnamese refugees. I do not wish to discuss political polemics, about who was right and who was wrong? I merely ask those who wish to listen to consider the fact we have been observing for some years, and more particularly in recent weeks, perhaps one of the most immense human tragedies that has befallen mankind in the last 25 years- a period of history which undoubtedly will be remembered for its numerous tragedies. Perhaps this will be the greatest tragedy because never before, at least since the Second World War, have so many men and women been led to hope in others, expected the assistance of others, been naive enough to believe in the unity of common goal and believed that ultimately our destinies were inter-related. Despite their beliefs and perhaps naivety, we see in South Vietnam today many millions of people who feel lost, deserted and dismayed because the nations and the people from whom they expected assistance have gone out of their way to give the absolute minimum. In these last moments of their independence when, to use a phrase, the wolf is knocking at the door, they have called out to us as have their nationals who are among us as Colombo Plan students and as private students and have received so little in return. 
It is for those people that I want to go on record in a small attempt to show my respect for their endeavours as human beings and my detestation at the reaction which has been totally lacking in any real sense from the present Government of Austalia. I would like to read into Hansard a letter from a Vietnamese lawyer. He is not a public servant; he is a man of little note, a middle class gentleman living in Hue. One of his children is a student in Australia.  His  letter states: 
I am very happy and specially touched when reading your letter. It gave me some kind of reassurance when I am in need. My nation, my family, my beloved children are drowning . . . Things are getting worse very fast- and nobody can act adequately. ... In a few days to come when the U.S. say No to Ford's request the morale of troops will be collapsed- and chaos will totally drown this nation of S.V.N, so far severely weakened, and rottened by corruption and bad organisation. This nation needs a revolution, but the Communists are too cruel, barbaric. They will kill the whole mass of people who have served this government without any discrimination of corrupted or not corrupted people. They did it in the 1968 offensive in my home town (Hue). That's bad! That's terrible! Hatred, vengeance, of the fanatics. Here, we keep on praying . . . for all. 
He went on to say that his brother's family, who left Da Nang in a boat, perished at sea from starvation and thirst. It is easy for us in Australia, thinking we are so far away, that we can close the doors and ignore the realities of the times. The seas around us are indeed rough, and the future which this nation faces will not be easy. Perhaps we are the lucky country, but that situation cannot last for ever. 
In future days historians will perhaps give Vietnam only a few sentences in their books, but today let us remember that these suffering people are human beings, sharing in the destiny of a common world. I speak with sorrow when I see so little feeling of compassion, especially from the Government, for these people, our fellow human beings and allies in war. Now they are disgraced because they failed. It is a sad fact of history that failure in the battlefield is something that democracies do not like, because there are no votes in failure. There will be no speeches, no triumphal arches, and no war cemeteries. There is only Anzac Day, which we celebrate in 2 days time. 
What are we to tell the parents of the Australian men who went to Vietnam because they thought they were doing their duty? This Government believes that their lives were wasted and lost because they were fighting a so-called civil war. For the sake of their parents and friends, I hope that we are men and women of enough honour and integrity to stand up and say, when people fight wars for principles that are right and just, regardless of the consequences and the outcome: 'You did your duty. ' If we as a nation are prepared to proceed finding excuses for whatever we do, regardless of the reasons , I believe that this nation does not have a long or pleasant future, because we will lack the qualities of intestinal fortitude- others would simply call it guts- to face the realities of the world and not turn away from them. 
I spent a considerable amount of time 3 weeks ago trying to help a number of Vietnamese university students who wanted to get their relatives out of Vietnam. In fact, this Government received a submission to the Prime Minister on Friday, 4 April, giving him various proposals for the criteria that could be considered. Members of this House will be aware that we finally received the details of those criteria on 23 April. I asked a question of the Prime Minister on 10 April and received no satisfactory answer. In other words, we have lost 3 weeks of other people's lives. If one man, one woman or one child dies because of the weakness of this Government, through its inept and incredible belief in doing nothing to upset the victor of tomorrow, we will have let ourselves down badly and we will have committed our own crime against humanity. 
What of tomorrow? Let us all hope that the South Vietnamese authorities will come to a settlement with the invaders from the North and with the Vietcong and that Saigon will be handed over intact without a battle, and that at least the administration can change with a minimum of bloodshed. But let us not delude ourselves. There will be thousands of decent, honest people whose only crime was to serve their government as civil servants, as village chiefs, as soldiers and so on, who will be regarded forever as being enemies to the cause of communism. Those people can expect no sympathy from the victor. 
What are we going to do for them? Can any of them expect from this Government an attitude similar to that it adopted to the political prisoners of Chile? The Fascist Government in Chile was prepared to allow some of its political prisoners to have a second chance in Australia regardless of their political beliefs. Can any of the Vietnamese people expect a similar chance? That will be the test that this House and our nation will have to observe. We have heard for too long- for years in fact- from various members of the Press and from others how inhumanity was for some extraordinary reason limited entirely to the South while the North proceeded with its lily-white policy of destruction, hatred and despair. Very soon we will know the truth. We will know what it really means when and if our Government tries to help the people who remain in Saigon, and we will see whether or not those who run North Vietnam will heed our words of humanity. 
-Despite its imperfections, this Bill which seeks to establish a Children's Commission is a genuine attempt to overcome one of the major social problems arising from a technologically advanced consumer society which claims a high standard of living, therefore requiring a large percentage of its work force, both male and female, to participate fully in the production of the goods and services required by the community. The need for the expansion and further investigation of the faculties which have been available in the past was recognised in 1969 by the last Federal Liberal Party Government. In October 1972 the Child Welfare Grants Act was passed. That Act provided for research grants and for funds to assist local bodies or interested groups to establish and run child care centres. This was given further attention by the present Government in 1973, when it established a PreSchools Committee under the chairmanship of Miss Joan Fry. The report of that Committee was released in December 1973. 
In fact, the legislation we are debating tonight is the product of no less than 3 reports. Firstly, as I noted, there was the Fry report of 1 973. That was followed by the Social Welfare Commission report of July 1974. Then the Priorities Review Staff was asked to make a further report. That was brought down in August-September of the same year. These reports were directed at trying to overcome the very real problems which were faced both by the Fry committee and by the social welfare committee in this context. Unfortunately, as has been pointed out by the leading  speaker  for the Opposition, the Bill lacks a specific statement of Government philosophy towards the education and early care of the children of Australians. It is a major problem, one which I am sure all members of this House appreciate that. It is a problem which will take a long time to overcome. 
The proposals in this legislation is that a substantial sum of money, some $885m, is to be spent over a period of 10 years. In view of the current situation facing the Australian economy and the obvious need to reduce Government expenditure it is necessary to make sure that we carry out our responsibilities to the Australian electorate and make certain that these funds, will be adequately used throughout the community especially where the requirement is most urgent. It is necessary also to emphasise that this is a major national problem. It is not one which is restricted specifically to certain sections of the population. I would like to give to the House some interesting statistics. In May 1973, according to the Bureau of Census and Statistics, there were 28 1 700 persons in the labour force responsible for some 365 000 children under 6 years of age. Approximately one in three of these children remained at home in the care of relatives or friends and about one in ten attended nurseries, creches or home day centres. 
In 1968-69 the available child care facilities in Australia catered for approximately 14 000 children only- not a very high figure- and in New South Wales, my own State, in 1972, the most recent figures available, there were some 760 registered child care centres coping for 39 913 children up to 5 years of age. Twenty-five thousand of these were assumed to be between 3 years and 5 years of age, the majority of whom could have been attending kindergartens. The estimated number of 3 and 4-year-old children in New South Wales in 1972 was over 165 000. Thus, only 15.7 per cent of eligible children were attending pre-school in 1972. 
The emphasis behind the Bill seems to suggest that most women in the community wish to be in the work force. This is a presumption which the Opposition questions. On the basis of statistics which I have available there is good reason to suggest that in the philosophy behind legislation of this type more attention should be given to ensuring that all parents, whether they be single or dual parents, are given as much opportunity as possible to make their own decisions as to whether they wish to enter the work force or, in the case of mothers, remain at home to look after their children, especially in their earlier years. There is obviously a trend towards 2-income families and we are all aware of the reasons for this. It is because in a consumer society such as this, faced in particular with a very high inflation rate, the need for more women to enter the work force to try to make ends meet is growing year by year. 
In addition to that we must take into account the fact that women have a much higher standard of education than they were given previously, which is excellent. It is something we must all applaud. When women are educated they have every right to fulfil their expectations during their lifetimes. Despite these factors married women comprise only 22 per cent of the total work force at present and 70.8 per cent of those are of child-bearing age, which I take to be between 15 and 44 years. Thus the majority of women in the child-bearing category still remain at home and receive little assistance in bringing up young children. Therefore the problems which we are debating cannot be simply overcome by talking in terms of that section of the female population which wishes to enter the work force. 
One of the major difficulties which Australia has faced is that for too long the need to build up a pre-school and child care infrastructure, especially at the local government level, was not given the amount of attention which perhaps it should have. In 2 years living in Israel I had the opportunity of seeing at first hand the effective operation of a well integrated system of community welfare organisations under the control of local government. Every child over the age of 2Vi years was guaranteed entry into a pre-school for 6 days of the week. In that country it is a 6-day working week and not five as in Australia. The hours covered were from 8 o'clock in the morning until 5 o'clock in the evening. I believe it will take a long time for Australia to reach that standard but it is an objective that is worth considering very seriously especially for those children whose parents wish to or have to enter the work force. 
There is still a real need which has not been covered adequately in my opinion in this legislation to establish again at local government level sufficient facilities so that all women and all single parents, including men, are given the opportunity to put their children into adequate day care centres even if only for a short time so that the mother or the father may, for instance, go to the dentist. It is a remarkable thing that in the large suburbs of Sydney, for example, there are still no adequate arrangements made in this regard. I received a letter recently from one of my constituents pointing out precisely this point. She said that although she wanted to put her children into pre-schools she noted that at the present time, according to her examination of the Sydney telephone directory, the ratio of preschools which are non-profit organisations to pre-schools which are presently run allegedly on a profit-making basis is 40 to 240. 
This legislation appears to preclude specifically organisations which are allegedly run on a profit-making basis and emphasises that funds will be made available only to non-profit kindergartens run by church groups and organisations and individuals. In view of the realities of the situation which have been emphasised, namely, that at present the existing facilities are simply not adequate to meet the existing demand, much less the anticipated demand in future years, I think the legislation is unduly short-sighted in not at this stage encouraging appropriately qualified people to enter the preschool and child care area so that there will be adequate facilities to take those children whose parents wish them to be looked after. ' Turning specifically to the Bill I wish to make a number of short observations. It is proposed that the Children's Commission should report directly to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  In my opinion, this will create a number of major problems as the Prime Minister's Department to date has had little, if anything, to do with the areas of specific education and social welfare which are obviously the 2 major fields related to pre-school education. The situation therefore would be better handled if in the short term the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  were made responsible for the Commission. The Opposition is of the view, and will certainly carry it into effect when we return to the Treasury bench, that there should be established a Children's Bureau which will provide a central source of input to a committee of Ministers who will retain responsibility for the administration of programs within their respective portfolios such as those of health, education and social welfare. The Children's Bureau will not administer programs nor control funding of them. It will monitor community trends, assist in evaluating the effectiveness of on-going programs, conduct multidiscipline research, disseminate information to and from the community and provide advisory services to parents and community groups. In other words, the Children's Bureau will act as a collector of information and a disseminator of trends and information to the Departments of State responsible for various aspects of social welfare matters. This is a most important consideration and one which I would ask the Government to give further thought to. 
I do not support the need for the Prime Minister to take on this particular responsibility. As I see it, ultimately he will find himself having to arbitrate on a number of major interdepartmental disputes. A semi-autonomous commission with policy-making functions such as the ones suggested has to rely on Public Service departments to implement its policies and this will result in delays, confusion and procedures which will only encourage misunderstandings and conflicts between the policy-making departments and the Commission. I would prefer the Government to reject the recommendations of the Priorities Review Staff on administration and adopt those put forward by the expert working party of the Social Welfare Commission in this regard. 
The important factor which we need to emphasise, however, is that social welfare programs at this level must emphasise the need for local participation at the grass roots level. For that reason, although a commission or a bureaudepending on which government one wishes to support- wishes to be in a position to co-ordinate the relevant information, the actual implementation of the ongoing programs must be essentially at the State and local government level. Unfortunately, the Priorities Review Staff in its report suggested that this was not a good idea because it said that the standards between various local government areas varied too much. 
Notwithstanding that as being a very basic value judgment, I would see the role of a commission being to make sure that funds are available and that adequately qualified people are available to assist local government in this most important area. Ultimately, I want to see a situation in which every suburb in Australia- certainly every shopping centre in Australia- has adequate facilities so that children are able to be cared for on a full day basis or on a short time basis depending on the needs of the parents and their financial capacity. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on the Minister's personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by the Minister, and what are their names and salaries. 
-Every few months in this chamber we go through the same pathetic charade performed here by a Government of alleged compassion when all the time the situation facing all people in this community, young people in particular, who wish to purchase their own homes is getting more and more desperate. It has already been pointed out by both Government and Opposition members who have spoken in this debate how building costs are increasing at a high rate day by day because of the effect of inflation. For example, in 1972 an average house cost $22,500; in 1975 it has gone up to $39,000, and if the rate of inflation continues as it is, by 1977 it will be something in excess of $55,000. What has the Government offered us within this incredible situation? We are asked to support a new interest subsidy scheme which, to be charitable to it, is nothing more than a drop in the bucket. It represents a few dollars a week and does nothing to bridge an impossible deposit gap, a gap which is increasing year by year. This is a situation which the Government has shown itself incapable of appreciating. The regrettable fact is that in recent months in particular, aware of the failure of his policies, the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  has taken every opportunity to fill the media with more and more paper thus taking part in an already well established principle his Government directed at producing paper at a rate commensurate with the decline in the value of the currency of Australia. We have a wonderful combination- increasing inflation, increasing Government paper output and fewer houses being built for more Australian people who want housing. It is simply a formula for a crisis in the building industry and that is the situation we are facing today. We have heard semantic arguments as to whether the new DMI scheme has certain merits over the scheme put forward by the previous Government. What has been completely ignored is the very real fact that the scheme which we introduced in 1964 under the Homes Savings Grant Act was instituted specifically to help people to bridge the deposit gap. It is a gap which is now in excess of $6,000 for a house costing about $25,000. A person would be lucky to find a house for that price. Yet, we are being asked to support a scheme which ignores the reality that young people have difficulty in finding that sort of money. It has been proved by the fact that during the last few years on average people who applied for grants under our scheme had to wait for 3 years before they finally had their first house, in other words, before they had the capacity to build up sufficient funds in addition to the $750 given to them to meet the deposit gap. 
Today the situation is obviously worse because since 1964 the rate of inflation has increased so much that any comparison which members of the Government have tried to draw is obviously inaccurate. We are not suggesting for one minute that $750 is sufficient today. But what is quite clear is that if we were living in an ideal world it would be nice to be able to say to the Australian people: 'You can have both schemes. You can have ours to help you bridge the deposit gap and you can have the present Government's scheme, which will make a small contribution towards paying your high rate of interest'. Yes, it would be wonderful if we could do that. But, gentlemen, we are on the edge of a national crisis. We are not here just to debate the merits of a few dollars and to say how generous it is that the Government has given $130m towards this fund. This is totally ignoring the reality of the times. 
We have a building industry which is grossly under-utilised at the present time, with reserves which have been built up for the last 6 months and which are now not being utilised. We have people leaving the industry daily and we have bankruptcies throughout the land because the Australian building industry today is in a greater state of crisis than has ever been known since the great depression. Because of that it is obvious that any government should do whatever it can to take the necessary action to stimulate the industry and the economy. Unfortunately, we have gone past the stage when merely signing cheques or putting out Press releases and advising everybody of how much the Government is going to do- when in fact it does so little- is sufficient. 
The situation is too real and the problems, therefore, have to be taken from the base upwards. The policies which have been put forward by the Opposition to overcome the major problems facing the Australian economy are essentially directed at returning confidence to all sectors of" the community. Until incentive and confidence is returned to Australia there is no way any government, merely by spending more money, will overcome the real problems found in the building industry. The other major problem is, of course, high interest rates. One fact has to be faced in the not so distant future and it is this: The amount of funds that at any one time can be made available for housing obviously has to be limited because the national 'cake' is only so large. As has been pointed out in another place there is no such thing as a ' free lunch '. 
The people of Australia, and the Australian Government in particular, have to realise therefore that in view of the fact that we have a limited amount of capital available- whether it is through the Government's finance arrangements or through banks, building societies and so forth- the time probably is not far distant when consideration will have to be given to the proposal put forward by my Party at the last election, namely, that at the beginning of the period of loan repayments more emphasis should be given to the repayment of interest than to pay off capital. Later on as incomes increase the amount of repayments should grow at a commensurate rate to that of the increase in salaries. At the same time, it can be argued that whereas banks state, for example, that 20 per cent of a person's gross monthly income should be taken up with capital and interest charges, as borrowers' salaries increase over a period of years- for the period of the loan in particular- there is a case for step by step increases being made in repayments. Perhaps this would not be a very popular concept. But the fact still remains that the amount of funds available in the Australian economy at any one time to meet the very major problem of housing has to be considered m terms of other competing demands and the realities of the times. 
Another major problem the industry and house seekers are facing, therefore, in addition to the question of inflation is the fact that most contracts entered into today contain rise and fall clauses. This is a perfectly responsible attitude adopted by builders but it is not something which can be expected to increase confidence, whether they be private builders, individuals or companies, because nobody can possibly say in 6 months time what the cost will be when at present building costs are increasing by in excess of 23 per cent. It has been pointed out by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  that the Government's building costs have increased by more than 30 per cent. We have a government which is going out of its way to make more and more funds available specifically for government building, allegedly on the grounds that people should prefer living in rented accommodation to living in their own homes. The Opposition specifically moved amendments to Government legislation some months ago directed at this particular point. 
There is no doubt that in terms of the need to maintain mobility of labour there will always be a degree of rented accommodation required in Australia. At the same time, however, the trend over the years has been that Australians prefer to own their own homes. Whether they wish to be called little capitalists or anything else, it is something in which most Australians take pride. No government worth its salt should suggest that the right which was passed on to Australia by succeeding generations should, because of alleged changes of emphasis in building demands mean that people today should not be given the right of home ownership. The fact of the matter is that young people have major problems today in purchasing their own homes. 
It is necessary for both the Government and the Opposition to come forward with specific proposals which will overcome these problems. Unfortunately, trends in the industry in recent months, despite the incredible amount of legislation on various aspects of housing which have been introduced by the Government has shown quite clearly that none of them has overcome the major problems. Statistics speak for themselves. I only hope that the Government can come forward with a better solution than that which is contained in this bill. 
I must make a few very brief comments in support of the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Firstly I would like to point out that I do not agree with the view just expressed by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock).  The reason I wish to speak to the amendment is specifically this: The presumption throughout this legislation has been the equality of men and women to enter divorce and therefore to have exactly the same basis on which their marriages should be terminated, the fact of the matter is that a vast number of marriages up to the present time have been based on decisions made on social mores which were the accepted views of the community as early as 50 or 60 years ago. Many women who entered into marriage contracts in earlier times did so on the specific presumption that their husbands would take care of them and be the sole or main source of their maintenance. Now, of course, times have changed, but there is considerable doubt whether amended laws should be made at this stage which force under such circumstance people who entered into contracts at that time to live according to legislation which is passed in 1 975.  In  other words, a vast number of marriages do not in fact give women the basis of equality that is presumed in this legislation. 

 Mr ELLICOTT (Wentworth)-Mr  Chairman,  I seek leave to speak again. 
I make certain observations on sub-clause (2) of clause 49, which states: 
The parties to a marriage may be held to have separated and to have lived separately and apart notwithstanding that they have continued to reside in the same residence or that either party has rendered some household services to the other. 
The substance of amendment No. 90, circulated in my name, is that the words 'or that either party' and subsequent words should be omitted. I have brought this matter to the attention of the Committee because I have some doubt in my own mind about whether or not the inclusion of these words is a substantial advantage to the Bill as presently formulated. I understand that in the existing legislation such a formulation does not appear, with the result that it could be argued that there is room in this formulation for parties to be encouraged to commit perjury in this respect in their evidence before a court in divorce proceedings. After all what are 'household services'? Where is the objective judgment? I would appreciate it if the Attorney-General could give an undertaking that the proposed Family Law 
Council, when it is established, will keep this matter under close review and that, if necessary, the regulations will be changed if it is discovered that these words in clause 49 in fact do open an opportunity for perjury which should not be allowed. 
I am aware that the basis of the argument for this clause is that poor people are to be given the opportunity to continue living in the home with the other party to a divorce proceeding, but I should think that it would be difficult for a court to make an objective judgment on a matter such as this. I suggest that no distinction between rich and poor should be made by the law and that both should be subject to the same legal interpretations. While it could be argued, as the AttorneyGeneral undoubtedly will argue, that for example a woman who has taken action against her husband has merely helped him in time of sickness and so on, one does have to draw a distinction in terms of the interpretation of 'living separate and apart' in clause 49 and the provision in sub-clause (2) relating to the rendering of some household service to the other party. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Like the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  I was not given the opportunity to speak during the debate on the motion for the second reading of this Bill. Therefore I wish to make some general observations on, in particular, clause 6, which relates to the establishment of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. As has been pointed out already by numerous speakers on this side of the House the Government has not succeeded in putting forward a substantial case as to why it is necessary at this stage of Australia's economic development to establish federal government involvement in the insurance industry. Various speakers have shown that the insurance industry in Australia today is already over-supplied with companies. Furthermore, that fact was emphasised by the then Treasurer of the present Government,  Mr Crean,  when he said on 1 3 December 1 973: 
There are already operating in Australia a large number of insurance companies which appear to be adequately meeting the country's insurance requirements. In these circumstances and given the important role played by these companies in the social and economic life of Australia there is a need for an assessment of the costs and benefits which might flow from the establishment of new companies. 
As has been pointed out already by the honourable member for Farrer and other honourable members for many years the Australian Labor Party has had in its policy the statement that it intends to nationalise the insurance industry. In fact paragraph 5 of the section about economic planning in the Australian Labor Party's platform specifically states: 
With the object of achieving Labor's objectives, establish or extend public enterprise where appropriate by nationalism- 
Whatever that happens to meanparticularly  in the fields of banking, consumer finance, insurance, marketing, housing, stevedoring, transport and areas of other anti-social private monopoly. 
The point that speakers on the Government side of the chamber have failed to appreciate in this debate is that the vast majority of insurance, especially that carried out in the life assurance field, is in the hands of mutual companies. They are not companies which have as shareholders people who are not policy holders. They are one and the same thing. Therefore to refer to them as monopolistic in any shape or form is a travesty of the facts. A mutual company is precisely what it states, namely, a group of people who have put their funds into a common fund for an agreed objective, that is, to purchase insurance policies. The bonuses that are issued to those people are the cumulative result of the investment policies carried out by the companies in which they care to invest. There is no other outside holding whatsoever. This specifically refers to companies like the Australian Mutual Provident Society and the National Mutual Life Association and others which hold the very largest share of the life insurance and assurance market. 
The point is worth making also that in this legislation it is proposed that the new insurance office is to have a mere $1,800,000 with which to establish itself. I think honourable members should be aware of the fact that the last major overseas company to establish itself in the Australian insurance industry was the Legal and General Assurance Society Ltd. It established itself some 18 years ago and provided no less than $1 lm in support of that operation. It has only been in the financial year 1974-75 that that company has managed to reach the break even point. Yet we have been told by the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation,  Senator Wheeldon,  and other speakers on the Government side that, for an incredible sum of $ 1 ,800,000, they are going to be able to establish a corporation which, in the words of the Minister, in his second reading speech:   . . will encourage fair- and I stress 'fair'-competition and development of a superior service to the ordinary householder and homeowner in Australia. 
I seriously question whether this is a realistic objective. Therefore there is good reason why the industry should doubt the veracity of the Government's statement that it does expect that this corporation, in its early stages, will be a viable competitor against the existing industry. The Australian economy today is going through an extraordinarily difficult period- due essentially to the maladministration of the present Government- and the thousands of people who are employed in the insurance industry have seen no indication from the Government that its intentions are soundly formulated. 
The Government wishes to pursue its policy of social myopia and establish, in its own words, monuments to socialism. The insurance industry and the Australian electorate have every reason to doubt that the creation of this corporation, this monument to socialism at this time in particular, is necessary especially as it is being built on the ruins of our economy. If the Government wishes to act like a lemming and commit political suicide over the cliffs of its own making, there is no reason why it should not do so; we are delighted to help give it a push. But there is no reason why the Government should take the Australian people, their economy and their future, with them. 
I wish to raise a number of points in relation to clauses 1 1 to 13 inclusive. Clause 11(1) states: 
The Board may, by resolution, delegate to any person, either generally or as otherwise provided by the resolution, any of its powers under this Act, other than this power of delegation. 
It has been rightly pointed out by the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  that in clause 13 we see another example of quite substantial ministerial authority in relation to the actual powers of what we have been told will be an autonomous and yet government-controlled organisation, if one can imagine such a combination. However, in clause 1 1 the Board is given very substantial power if one takes into account that those powers which are enumerated in Part III, clause 12, can be given to any person merely by resolution of the Board without reference to the Minister. I would have thought that if the Minister is to have the powers that are enumerated in clause 13 there would also be a case for him to have similar powers in relation to clause 1 1. 
I turn now to clause 12(1) (e) concerning reinsurance. It is important to point out that the existing re-insurance arrangements made by Australian insurance companies are part of a major international financial network including Lloyds of London. The whole purpose of reinsurance, in case some Government members are not aware of it- on the basis of what we have heard there is great doubt that they are aware of it- is this: Re-insurance is simply spreading the risk. 
Let us consider the situation that many Australians faced last year in the Brisbane floods and in the disaster in Darwin. The fact is that a number of Australian insurance companies and those with overseas affiliations had to pay out very substantial sums of money to recompense their policyholders who suffered grievous physical and property damage as a result of those unfortunate calamities. Requiring them to make enormous payouts would have been impossible due to their liquidity position had it not been for their substantial international reinsurance arrangements. 
It has been stated- the point has been made by the Government but not proved to my satisfactionthat re-insurance is supposed to be a means by which Australia's balance of payments suffers; as funds go out of Australia. As I pointed out, there can be no question that last year alone funds flowed into Australia to enable insurance companies to meet their obligations. 
I turn now to clause 12 of the Bill, which provides in part: 
The Office shall inform the Minister of any proposal by the Office to acquire a substantial interest, whether direct or indirect, in a company carrying on any business of insurance, or to acquire any business or undertaking of such a company. 
It is clauses of this type which has caused the insurance industry considerable problems. Essentially, the danger is this: When there is an economic environment such as we sadly see at the moment, there are companies- we are aware that in the last few years there have been failures-with considerable assets, termed 'book assets' in particular, as well as assets related to their actual policies, which could be bought up by an Australian Government Insurance Corporation at very low cost indeed. Surely the industry has every reason to fear the long term impact of the AGIC on its activities in this regard. 
Finally, with respect to clause 13, I merely wish to reiterate the point made by the honourable member for Balaclava. This clause provides in part: 
The Minister may, by writing signed by him, direct the Board to adopt a policy that the Office enter into a class of contracts of insurance specified in the direction and, where such a direction is given, the Board shall comply with the direction. 
We were told in the second reading speech and in the speeches of Government members, that the Corporation is supposed to be an autonomous financial body. In fact, it is quite clear that the Minister is to have overriding authority. 
-As the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  has so eloquently pointed out, both the industry and in particular the Opposition find some difficulty in relation to the contents of clause 14 when compared with the substance of the second reading speech of the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart).  I reiterate what I said earlier in relation to the second paragraph which reads: 
The Australian Government Insurance Corporation in the field of commercial insurance will encourage fair . . . competition and development of a superior service to the ordinary householder- 
In clause 14 we have 2 major problems. The first is the concept of sound commercial principles. Most, if not all, companies which expect to survive in any economic environment, and in particular the present one, would interpret sound commercial principles as based on the premise that they must return a profit, and that their costs of operation therefore must be maintained at a sufficiently low level to achieve a profit at the end of their trading period. Here that concept is related to that of national interest, which the honourable member for Balaclava so rightly pointed out is not defined anywhere in this legislation. Accordingly, we have good reason to suspect the veracity of the Minister's statement. It is simply impossible to talk about sound commercial principles and then to relate that to a concept of national interest which by definition under many circumstances, especially in relation to natural disasters, is not an economic proposition. Therefore I would wish the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  to explain to us in some detail the Government's intentions in this respect. 
As has been pointed out by numerous speakers, in particular the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  we appreciate that there is a need for a new organisation- a new arrangement- for national disasters. My understanding is that the insurance industry put proposals to the Government last October or November. Yet we have not heard one honourable member on the Government side give credit to the industry for having done this or more specifically advise us of the contents of the proposals. Instead of that they have offered us an extraordinary package deal, trying to relate the need for national interest concepts within the concept of an Austraiian Government Insurance Corporation. We are not convinced of the need for this Corporation at the present time and under these conditions. As the honourable member for Balaclava has pointed out, we need more time to see what was the substance of the proposals put to the Government by the insurance industry. We would like to hear the Minister's comments on that in particular. Sub-clause (3) of clause 14 says:  . . the Board shall, notwithstanding anything contained in section 13, adopt a policy that the Office enter into that class of contracts of insurance in accordance with the regulations. 
Again we have a specific case here where the Minister can dictate commercial policy to the Board and yet we have been told that the Board shall have autonomy of decision making in accordance with 'sound commercial principles'. 
-Ever since this Bill was first introduced into the House on Wednesday 23 April, we have been subject to a fairly constant barrage from Government supporters on the alleged failures of the existing private insurance industry. The very fact, however, that the Government failed earlier to put the insurance Acts requirements into this Bill in the form of the amendments which have now been proposed by the Minister does, in my opinion, give the House very substantial reason to doubt the intentions of the Government with regard to its role in the industry. This matter was emphasised, in particular, on the television program 'Monday Conference' recorded at the  Wrest Point Hotel Casino at Hobart on 9 May last when the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  made various observations on the legislation and indicated his Government's intentions and so on. On that occasion he advised the audience present that the Government would be introducing this amendment. The substantial number of insurance people present showed, in their response to the Minister, that it was a case of too huie too late and that the Minister failed to accept that this Corporation was unnecessary in an industry which I have already pointed out is already amply supplied with companies- if anything there are too many and the industry certainly does not need another one. The Minister should have been prepared to include this amendment in the original text of the Bill if he was genuine. Therefore, the point made by the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  is valid. 
I turn now to sub-clause 5 of the proposed new clause 15a. Here it is stated that life insurance business does not include business in relation to contracts of insurance referred to in clause 14. 1 would respectfully submit that this is a classic example of the bad drafting that is characteristic of this legislation. What should have been said, as the Opposition sees it, is that clause 14 should have contained a specific distinction between life assurance or superannuation and general insurance. The point has not been made. Nor does sub-clause 5 of new clause 15a adequately draw this very important distinction. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 15a. 
-I would like to make a few comments on clauses 34 to 4 1 inclusive. I think that the substance of these clauses re-emphasises, if more emphasis is necessary at this stage, the need for the Bill to be examined in specific terms in relation to the second reading speech of the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart).  Quite clearly there is a large number of inconsistencies between the two about which the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  should try to advise the House. 
With regard to clause 34, which relates to a reasonable return to Australia from the operations of the Corporation, I should be grateful if the Minister would give a definition as to what the Government considers to be a reasonable return. I recall a large company in Melbourne advertising a few months ago in the newspapers for an academic. The subject of his study was what is to be regarded as a reasonable profit. I suggest, therefore, that we have an interesting case here where the Government could advise the Committee as to what it regards as being a reasonable profit or a reasonable return. 
Clause 35 provides for $800,000 to be advanced to the Corporation to enable it to establish itself initially. That is a straight-out gift from Consolidated Revenue. If this Corporation is ostensibly to be operating on an equal footing with competing companies in the insurance industry I see no reason why that $800,000 should not be repayable in the shortest time possible or at least linked to the going interest rate at the time. Certainly no private company could enter into a commercial contract on such terms. Sub-clause (2) (a) of clause 35 refers to the amount to be paid to the Corporation by the Treasurer under sub-clause ( 1 ) of clause 35 and other clauses. Once again we have the provision of funds from Consolidated Revenue. The relationship that should therefore exist is not only that the Corporation must make a fair return but also that the return should be not only to the policy holders in this case, but specifically to Consolidated Revenue for funds already advanced. 
Clause 36 provides that interest is not payable to Australia on the capital of the Corporation. I consider this is quite unacceptable. The Opposition does not regard that as being the sort of basis upon which one can talk about commercial equality in relation to market opportunities. The clause provides that the capital of the Corporation is to be repayable to Australia at such time and in such amounts as the Minister determines. Again the principle should be that the capital must be repaid to Consolidated Revenue as soon as possible and subject to the going market rates. Comments have been made already by the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  on section 37 concerning interest rates and the fact that the long term bond rate is below the going interest rates it is therefore not in the Opposition's opinion a satisfactory basis for fixing a rate of interest for repayments. 
I turn now specifically to clause 38. It provides that Austrafia is to be responsible for the payment of all moneys due by the Corporation. But nothing in this clause authorises a creditor or other person claiming against the Corporation to sue Australia in respect of his claim. I regard thai as being a worthless guarantee because under common law a guarantor is also responsible for the debts incurred by the borrower. Therefore in its present form this is not a satisfactory clause. 
-I should like to join the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  in drawing attention to the speed with which this Bill has been drafted and the subsequent need to introduce the very substantial amendment concerning the application of the Corporation to the Life Insurance Act. As a result, throughout the Bill and particularly in clause 43 and subsequent clauses we find this need to relate the substance of the existing Bill to the new provisions of the amendment. No doubt this will be done by the Government in time for the Senate to examine the matter further. 
Regarding the audit provisions in clause 44, 1 re-emphasise that all records need to be given the very deepest examination by the AuditorGeneral and that the reports must be tabled in this House on an annual basis. This should not be seen merely as an appendage to place in legislation of this type, but in fact be regarded as a primary responsibility of this Corporation. It is an instrument of Government and therefore Parliament has every right to receive, on an annual basis, accurate information about the business undertakings, profit and loss account and so forth of the Corporation. But the unfortunate fact is, as I think all honourable members of this chamber would be readily prepared to agree, that many Government instrumentalities are very tardy in their presentation of accurate and timely information to the Parliament. In view of the difficulties involved in this legislation one would not want to see a continuation of that situation. 
Regarding clause 45, I am delighted that at least the original drafters of this Bill appreciated the need for the Corporation to be subject to the taxation laws of Australia unlike other corporations set up by this Government. It is worth mentioning in this regard that in the last 2 Budgets of the Government it has gone out of its way to make assurance less attractive to the purchasing public of Australia by changing the previous arrangements concerning taxation allowances to insurance companies. This has had a fundamental effect on the capacity of insurance companies to pay what would be regarded as decent premiums, especially in these very difficult times when returns on capital invested in most companies, are sadly depressed. 
I turn now to clause 40 where I see an interesting dichotomy between its contents- namely, that Australia is liable to pay to the Corporation out of moneys lawfully available for the purpose, any amount required to discharge a liability of the Corporation, etc.- and contents of clause 38 to which I referred earlier as being little more than a worthless guarantee. I should appreciate it if the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  himself a lawyer, could explain this matter more fully. Finally I caution the Government, in particular the Ministry, on the fact that the non-parliamentary leader of the Australian Labor Party, a gentleman by the name of  Mr Robert  Hawke, in May 1973 announced a cut price insurance scheme. The Australian Council of Trade Unions intended to go into partnership with the General Mutual Insurance Co. Ltd. Sadly, one year later, the Supreme Court of Victoria ordered the winding up of General Mutual because of its insolvency. We hope that the Government, if it finally gets its legislation into law, will not follow the same ways as the ACTU, especially when it is dealing with taxpayers' money. 
-In December 1972 and again in May last the Australian people elected an Australian Labor Parry Government which was, in its own words, to be a government of compassion. However, its behaviour over the question of the Vietnamese refugees could only lead even a biased observer such as myself to conclude that the Australian people have been sadly misled in their expectations regarding the policies of this so-called Government of compassion. Furthermore, it is very clear from the written statements of people Uke the present  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  when in Opposition that they are able to polish their haloes and appear to the world as compassionate people who understand the problems of others. But when faced with the so-called problems of State and the real political situations confronting Australia we find a very interesting dichotomy in the approach which they have adopted. 
I shall mention in particular a reference which is contained in a book entitled 'Australia and the Non- White Migrant' which was edited by Kenneth Rivett. Kenneth Rivett quotes  Dr J.  F. Cairns who, before the change of government, prepared the following statement for the book: 
I endorse the statement by  Senator McGovern  that America has a responsibility to provide refuge for those in South Vietnam who may suffer if a new government is established in Saigon. By identifying itself with the American occupation and aggression in Vietnam, the Australian government has established for itself a duty to share with the United States the consequences of a withdrawal of this occupation and an end to this aggression. 
I do not consider that there will be many people seeking refuge from South Vietnam in the case of the formation of a government without Thieu, Ky and Khiem, the only requirements still to be met for an end to the war unless a campaign to influence people to become refugees is conducted. Australia should plan to avoid any conflicts or frictions arising from racial or national differences and while doing so should be liberal in admission to Australia of people of any race or nationality who desire to come, especially those who are suffering from reprisals or discrimination in some other country. 
The principles enunciated by the then member of the Opposition are admirable. It is sad that, when the South Vietnamese nation was literally on its knees and when many people in South Vietnam were asking and expecting Australia, their ex-ally, to adopt a more compassionate approach to their problems there was virtual silence on the part of this man. When he made certain comments it was simply to suggest what a glorious tiling it was that the war was coming to an end and how happy he was. He simply ignored the attitudes he had adopted when in Oppositionthat wars regrettably brought in their aftermath considerable human suffering. Since the fall of Vietnam there has been more or less total silence in relation to what is going on in South Vietnam. 
This merely emphasises the situation in North Vietnam after 1954 when there was a complete news blackout for some years. When the truth finally got out it was a very sad picture of man's inhumanity to man. Many Vietnamese especially, the million-odd who ran away from the North at the time of the Vietminh takeover in 1954, had nothing to expect from the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese allies when they succeeded in capturing the South but a continuation of the same degree of human suffering from which they had tried to escape previously. It was those people in particular, many of whom were Christians and Catholics, who wanted to come to countries such as Australia and the United States of America. We are all well aware of the magnificent effort made by the United States under very difficult circumstances to move from Vietnam at very short notice a considerable number of people. I am told the number was over 120 000. 
To say, as the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison),  then the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, stated, that Australia had a wonderful record and that we were second only to the United States- at that stage, second being a figure of about 72 people- is merely a travesty of the substance of the British language. Those sorts of figures are not something in which we should take pride. The Minister also stated on many occasions that we could not get people out of Vietnam because of the Vietnam Government's interference and because of difficulties with the South Vietnamese authorities in granting visas. The fact of the matter is that a substantial number of Vietnamese were removed from 
Saigon, including nuns and others, by the simple process of putting them in American Embassy buses or in Austraiian Embassy vehicles and driving them out to the Tan Son Nhut airport where they were immediately taken to the American facility on the other side of the field and flown out of Vietnam without any further trouble whatsoever. To suggest it was the interference of the South Vietnamese authorities which prevented Australia from giving the degree of humanitarian assistance obviously required at such dmes is a travesty of the facts and is not a situation from which the present Government should receive any compassion or satisfaction whatsoever. 
The Government did nothing for these people. 
At the last minute it has been prepared to help a small number who escaped to Guam. It has made no attempt whatsoever to assist those who escaped to Singapore. It tried to cover up its tracks by saying that no Asian Government was prepared to take Vietnamese refugees. I see no substance in moral arguments to say that just because Peter does not do something Paul should not do it either. The fact of the matter is that Singapore accepted a number of South Vietnamese fishermen. Also Thailand accepted a small number of Vietnamese. At this stage Australia has been able to accept only 90-odd applicants from South Vietnam. That is a disgrace. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. In view of the fact that the Minister has admitted to the House that a letter was issued for purposes of identification to his agent, who is understood not to be an Australian citizen, will he advise the House what precedents exist for the issue of such letters and what qualifications and experience this agent has that commended him to the Government? Who recommended this agent? Finally, why were conventional banking channels and banking houses not used for this purpose? 
-I wish to make just a few points. Being an ex-public servant myself, I am very conscious of the implications of this Bill, but frankly I agree entirely with the argument adopted by the Opposition that at this stage, in view of Australia's unfortunate economic situation, one has to be realistic and ensure that the reforms which we are debating or to the existing government superannuation scheme will overcome the very real problems which exist in the present scheme. At the same time we must question as to whether the reforms are fair and equitable, and should the government scheme take pride of place over the private sector and set an impossible standard to emulate. It has been brought to my attention, in particular by retired members of the Public Service, that we should question the validity of accepting 30 years as the base period upon which this additional payment should be made. Many people who are now retired have served the Commonwealth for 40 years or 45 years, and in some cases for perhaps as long as 50 years. They are to be completely ignored under this proposal. It is not therefore equitable to those who have already served and extremely generous to those who have their pension calculated on a much more beneficial basis. I would urge the Government to consider the case of those who have retired and to consider more seriously than apparently it has to date whether it is equitable to include a clause of this nature in the Bill before the Parliament. 
Question put: 
That the sub-clause proposed to be omitted  (Mr Garland's amendment)  stand part of the clause. 
-There is one specific point I want to bring to the attention of the House in relation to these clauses. Although the Bill is fairly all encompassing in its attempts to improve the lot of the public servants, there is one area which is not covered. There are many public servants, specifically in departments which have overseas responsibilities, whose wives are not members of the Public Service. At the same time there is a growing percentage of wives who are members of the Public Service and who therefore have the advantage of serving overseas in missions with their spouses. The advantage they gain under this legislation is selfevident, especially if they are in a war zone or an area where they could be the unfortunate victims of physical injury. Both spouses are covered if they are members of the Public Service but, as I mentioned before, the majority of wives are still not in this situation. We even have cases now where the husbands of wives in the Public Service are also serving overseas. Likewise, they are not covered under this legislation. I realise that this is the exception and has to be taken as such, but I ask the Government to consider seriously the situation of these people. In Saigon for instance rockets were flying around the place and rockets have a terrible tendency not to tell anyone where they are going to land. If one's home happens to be the unfortunate target and one's wife and children are killed- fortunately this did not happen but it could happen- there is no provision at aU under the old Act, nor is there satisfactory provision in this Bill, for an adequate coverage in respect of these dependants, I suggest that the Government examine this matter and that appropriate arrangements be made to cover the second party to a marriage and other dependants who may lose their lives while overseas on government service. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 93. 
Where the spouse of a deceased eligible employee (being an eligible employee whose period of contributory service was less than 8 years) is entitled to lump sum benefit by virtue of sub-section 86 (2), the lump sum benefit payable in accordance with this sub-section is an amount equal to the lump sum benefit to which the deceased eligible employee would have been entitled under sub-section 74 (2) if he had not died, but had, on the day immediately following the date of his death, become entitled to invalidity benefit and made an election under section 74. 
Where a spouse referred to in sub-section (1) is the spouse of a deceased eligible employee who had paid supplementary contributions, the lump sum benefit payable in accordance with this sub-section is an amount, payable out of the Fund, equal to the accumulated supplementary contributions of the deceased eligible employee. 
-The people of Australia are justifiably concerned at the direction which their country is taking. The economic crisis in which we find ourselves is not merely the result of fortuitous circumstances; it is primarily the result of the misdirection of policies initiated by the present Government. We have just heard from the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  who pointed out to us what in many ways is a very specific example of the poor judgment to which this nation has been subject for more than  2Vi  years. He mentioned, for example, the wool floor price scheme. He suggested that the Government had made the proposal to reduce the floor price to 200c a kilogram specifically as a means of saving money. No doubt the honourable member, in saying that, believed in what he said; no doubt he wished the Australian wool grower well. Unfortunately, the logic behind that statement totally disregards the realities of the wool marketing process which we have in Australia today. 
How can it possibly be suggested that Government funds will be saved in any way if, by reducing the floor price from 250c to 200c the amount written off the value of the wool clip would be about $ 1 1 5m? How can it be suggested that there will be a saving to the producer, the taxpayer or the Government, if it can be shown that the value of the wool stockpile of 1.7 million bales could fall if such a proposal had been accepted by caucus. It is fortunate, indeed, for the wool growers of Australia that at least there were some people in the Caucus who had the courage to make the decision to undo the damage which already had been done by the Cabinet- the Cabinet, which has shown once again a total lack of appreciation of the economic realities of Australia. 
In December 1972 and again last May by a very slim majority the present Government was returned to office. It came into office with a new program, a new deal for the Australian people. They were to be given all sorts of gifts. The money tree was going to produce fruit the likes of which had never been seen before. Now,  2y.  years later, we stand here in Parliament and we have to survey the economic disaster that has befallen this nation because we have a Government which has shown itself quite conclusively to be incapable of making difficult and rational decisions at times when any government elected by the people to control and manage the economy would expect such decisions to be made. These are difficult times. We all know that. Certainly, the Opposition was the first to appreciate it. For at least the last 12 months we have emphasised to the Government that, unless it is prepared to make a significant attempt to reduce its extravagance and its expenditure, there is no solution to the problems facing the Australian economy. 
Let me recall, to the advantage of the House, that on 22 July 1973 the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced his decision in relation to the reduction of tariffs by 25 per cent, notwithstanding the fact that the present Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  had made it quite clear on a previous occasion that he did not agree with across the board tariff cuts. At that time he showed a remarkable standard of logical analysis which, regrettably, has not been noted for its brilliance since his accession to the position of Treasurer of this nation. On 22 July 1973 that very fundamental decision was taken to reduce tariffs across the board by 25 per cent. The Prime Minister said on that occasion- his words are very relevant: 
Our purpose is simply to allow imported goods to come into Australia more cheaply and in greater quantities. 
Yes, on a purely theoretical economic judgment that is what some economists would suggest should happen. But what was the effect of that decision, taken in isolation from the other economic decisions which had been previously taken? The Government had in the previous months, a policy of encouraging unions and the Public Service to be a pacesetter, to set a new standard of determination of wage demands far in excess of the capacity of the economy to accept them. Yet a decision was taken to reduce tariffs across the board by 25 per cent. This ignored, as I said, the effect, for example, in the electrical industry of previous wage determinations, where already the female work force, which is a substantial work force in that industry, had been given complete equality of wages with the male work force. We do not disagree with the concept of equality of wages for equal work. But I emphasise the point that in this industry the margins of profitability were already strained and it had already found itself in a situation in which its wage bill had almost doubled in a very short period of time. In addition to that, it then had to face an incredible degree of overseas competition through a deliberate decision of the government which proposes to protect the worker from unemployment. 
That is but one example of the many inane economic decisions that have been taken by this Government. Ad hocery has ruled triumphant in this Parliament for  2Vi  years. No serious attempt has been made to relate economic policies over a period of time. No attempt has been made to see the effect of one policy on sectors of the community which are vital if the industrial base of Australia is to progress. Recent statistics have made it clear that this rich country has reached the point of near zero growth. Despite this and despite suggestions by the Government that it intends to reduce Government expenditure and Ministers have been asked to reduce their expenditure by between 10 and 15 per cent, there is every reason to suggest that in the next Budget the Government will come into this House and ask the people of Australia to accept a deficit of at least $4,000m. This is almost double the present deficit. The catastrophe which we will face in the next 12 months begs description. We do not have to look very far. We can look at Great Britain- the once great Britain- and see what has become of that country because of misjudgments in the economic field. I have always believed that the trends in Great Britain quite often are followed in Australia. But, whereas it used to be 2 to 3 years before we saw the same effects in Australia, the time lag now has been cut down to a few weeks or, at the best, a few months. There is before us the evidence of what can happen to a country if wrong decisions are made by governments. 
Yet this Government intends to proceed with an extravagant policy of assuming that, regardless of the cost of money, regardless of the fall in the productive capacity of Australia and regardless of the old concept of a fair day's work for a fair day's pay, suddenly all its dreams can be achieved simply by producing more money, simply by going to the money tree and taking off the rich fruit. But that fruit has now gone bad and the people of Australia at last have woken up to the fact that we cannot buy for example, better education simply by spending more money; we cannot buy all the other social welfare programs, which of course we want to have and which any government would want to give to the people, unless the people, through their taxation, are able to carry the cost and the economy is able to carry the expenses involved in such policies. Since December 1972 the average worker in Australia certainly has had his salary increased; but he also has paid a greater percentage of his salary in taxation than ever before in our national history. We are forced to ask: Where is the incentive for the worker, for the employer, for the industrialist, for the farmer or for any section of the Australian people? 
-This Bill is a fraud. It was conjured up by the Government to ensure that it would be returned without any doubt at the next general election. The Government is as well aware as we in the Opposition are that next year a national census will be conducted, and following that census there will be grounds for another redistribution of electorates. Therefore, if this Parliament lives through its full term as the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has threatened twice in the last 2 days the Government may hold another double dissolution based on these Bills and others. I have never seen a better example of the waste of parliamentary time. I hope that I do not see the likes of it again. 
This Government is interested in only one thing- imposing itself upon the Australian electorate for as long as possible. I would like the Minister to know- he should be well aware of this fact- that the Liberal Party in New South Wales is totally committed, along with our colleagues in the National Country Party, to ensuring that this legislation is not passed in its resent form under any circumstances. The logicehind it is, to say the least, imperfect. The allowable variation in the number of electors above and below the quota has been reduced to 10 per cent. Yet the Minister continually says that the raison d'etre of this legislation is the desire to implement the principle of one vote one value. The Minister should be as aware as I am that, although that might sound a worthy objective, in terms of the Australian Constitution as presently formulated it is absolutely impossible to achieve. One day after being carried out, the redistribution would be incorrect because children would be born, people would die and others move, and so the number of people within electorates would change. 
Despite that fact, we find the most extraordinary situation in the present proposals. For example, the New South Wales electorate of Gwydir, which covers 40 per cent of New South Wales and which has within it more than 40 significant centres of population, will be changed radically, and other seats such as Riverina are being eliminated. The seat of Eden-Monaro is one of the few in which the margin will be left more or less as it is. In other words, on a statistical basis, every single seat which presently is held by the Australian Labor Party is to be strengthened, particularly in Sydney. If we examine the area from the seat of Cook to the Parramatta River, we will find that every seat is to be made safer for the Government. As has been pointed out so aptly by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  the whole substance of democracy is based upon the premise that if the people wish it they may change a government. This point was brought out especially in the last election, when the Australian Labor Party won 52 per cent of the seats with 49.2 per cent of the votes. That result indicated a fair redistribution. The last 2 elections were fair. The results speak for themselves. 
Now the marginal seats are being altered in such a way as to make all of them safe seats. At the same time we have been told that concepts such as community of interest as well as population size and variations and communications are among the factors which are to be taken into account by the Distribution Commissioners. Yet anybody who studies the maps of the proposed redistribution will note that in many cases suburbs have been completely split in half, for no logical reason. There is certainly community of interest in a suburb. For example what am I to say to the people of Killarney Heights in my electorate, who live on a peninsula? They are surrounded by water on 3 sides. Under these proposals there will be a division right through the centre, with the result that half of the people may vote for me and the other half may vote for the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth). 
-I thank the honourable member for his interest but in the wrong State. The situation speaks for itself. If we are to have a redistribution, let it be a fair redistribution. But, as I emphasised at the beginning, this is not the case nor do we need a redistribution until after the next census in 1976. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (8.35)Opposition members tonight have dragged up every argument they could think of to oppose these redistribution Bills. After they ran out of arguments they switched to talking about the economy, a double dissolution and an imaginary split in the Australian Labor Party- all to no avail. They claim that there is no necessity for a redistribution. We must look at this argument. Surely anyone would know that there has been a substantial movement of electors since the last redistribution in 1968. There has been a marked increase in the population; there has been an alteration to the Commonwealth Electoral Act to provide for 18-year-olds to vote instead of having to wait until they reach 2 1 years of age; and migrants have been given the right to obtain citizenship after 3 years residence in Australia instead of having to wait for 5 years. 
Members of the National Country Party of Australia are opposed to the proposed size of the Gwydir electorate. It is no bigger than the present Darling electorate and it would be much easier to service. In the Darling electorate, Broken Hill, which contains Broken Hill South and Broken Hill North, has 18 265 electors. In Dubbo and Dubbo West in the electorate of Gwydir there are 12 927 electors. It is an electorate of 134 648 square miles. Within a radius of 100 miles from Dubbo more than 30 000 electors may be reached. Within a 100-mile radius from Broken Hill, only a little over 15 000 electors may be reached. Therefore, the Distribution Commissioners have made it easier to operate under the proposed redistribution than it is at present. 
We have heard a lot about the unity of the National Country Party and the Liberal Party on this redistribution. However, the National Country Party wants to make electorates smaller, whereas the map identified as S5 and showing the redistribution proposed by the Liberal Party shows that the Liberals wanted to double the size of the Darling electorate. They wanted to give the bigger electorate to me, not to someone else. I believe that they are forced to admit that in a democratic electoral system there must be some big electorates. The Liberals have revealed that they take little notice of the community interest. Let us have a look at the different community interests. One of the strong points put forward by the National Country Party - 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) With which countries is Australia presently in the process of negotiationg aviation agreements. 
With which countries have aviation agreements been entered into since 2 December 1972. 
What first, second, third or fourth freedom advantage did Australia gain through these negotiations. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are on his personal staff. 
What are their names, designations and salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary public servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been or are employed by him, and what are their names and salaries. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion ( by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
With reference to his Department's March 1975 publication entitled 'Medibank and You' which states in the last paragraph to the foreword that people can be, and are, brought before courts in Australia, and even jailed, because of inability to pay medical or hospital bills, (a) how many people have been jailed in Australia for non-payment of medical or hospital bills during the last statistical period from which his Department's information was drawn, (b) what statistical period does the statement cover, (c) what is the State break-down of these jailings and (d) from what source document or documents has the information been gleaned. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
How many new housing units does he anticipate will be required to meet the demand for the years 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
How many new housing units does he anticipate will be constructed by State authorities with funds provided under the Housing Agreement Act and similar legislation. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy upon notice: 
1 ) Did he state on 19 November 1974 in relation to the North- West Shelf that oil in any quantity is much farther out on what is known as the Exmouth Plateau. 
If so, have any discussions been held with companies interested in petroleum exploration on the Exmouth Plateau to date. 
If so, what were the results of those discussions, and with which companies were they held. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
What negotiations has the Australian Government conducted with the Portuguese Government to settle a demarcation line between Portuguese Timor and Australian territorial waters. 
Has Oceanic Exploration of Denver made application to conduct seismic surveys in those areas of its permit which cross permits granted by Australian authorities. 
Has Oceanic Exploration of Denver commenced seismic surveys in these disputed areas. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Did he state on 30 July 1974, and prior to that date, that a pipeline from the Cooper Basin to Palm Valley was to be constructed; if so, will he give an assurance that this pipeline will not be built until adequate reserves are proven. 
Will he also give an assurance that competent technical advice will be sought prior to the expenditure of taxpayers' money on drilling at Palm Valley, and will he table a precis of this advice. 
In view of the small amount of drilling carried out to date at Palm Valley, will private enterprise be encouraged to proceed with drilling or will the Government insist on taking over the operation. 
Has the Pipeline Authority completed economic feasibility studies for this proposed section of pipeline. 
Are plans to proceed with construction of the pipeline firmly established. 
Which market or markets are to receive gas from Palm Valley. 
Will there be a second pipeline from Palm Valley to the Cooper Basin to carry liquids recovered from Palm Valley; if so, are plans to proceed with its construction firmly established; if not, how does the Pipeline Authority propose to deal with these liquids. 
Will these liquids be carried by pipeline from the Cooper Basin to Adelaide. 
How does the Pipeline Authority propose to use these liquids. 
-The Liberal Party and our colleagues in Opposition and soon in government, the National Country Party of Australia, are supporting this legislation because we believe that there is a need to control foreign investment and takeovers of Australian companies within Australia. Regrettably, the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  who has been in this House many years, does not seem to have a complete knowledge of the history of the legislation nor of the events which led up to it. As far back as 1965 the then LiberalCountry Party government brought in regulations to establish guidelines for foreign firms operating in Austrafia in relation to their borrowing of funds within Australia. This had the effect of encouraging overseas ventures to bring capital into this country. We have seen only too well over the last  Vh  years in particular the effect of government policies which were initiated without a reasonable understanding of the deep need to develop a sensitive appreciation of the role of the private sector. 
Investors including foreign investors in recent times have not had the opportunity, to invest with any sense of security consequently the rate of foreign investment, especially in terms of private capital investment, nas fallen substantially from $600m in 1971-72 to minus $106m in 1973-74. I regret that the Statistician has not given us any more recent figures. I have no doubt, however, that when the figures are published we will see a further catastrophic fall in the rate of investment. In fact we now have a net loss of over $ 100m leaving Australia because of the economic situation which we all know only too well has been the responsibility of a government which has initiated policies which are irresponsible and have not taken into account the true situation of the Australian economy. With foreign investment we are dealing with a very delicate plant. It is a plant which matured after the Second World War in an atmoshpere of sustained economic growth. We achieved unprecedented national prosperity and growth not only because of our own efforts but because of the participation of foreign investment capital in this nation. Nevertheless there is a need to control the activities of foreign companies in Australia. I made that point in my first comments on this legislation. However, it remains to be seen whether this Government has any right to claim, as it obviously does, authorship for this legislation, because in fact the draft of this Bill was prepared by the Cabinet of the McMahon Government. As this Parliament is well aware, legislation was introduced on an interim level to try to overcome some of the problems which had become manifest by 1972. 
The fact that the Foreign Takeovers Act of 1972, has continued up to the present time, merely shows the difficulty which the present Government has had, despite what it told the Australian people in December 1972, in formulating an effective foreign investment policy for this nation. Anybody who wants to read the figures cannot help concluding that to take out of our domestic economic framework the very real involvement of overseas capital would lead us into a situation from which we would have considerable difficulty in extricating ourselves. Regrettably that position has already been reached. 
The legislation introduced by the McMahon Government in October 1972 gave effect to measures announced by the then Prime Minister as early as 26 September of the same year. The Bill enabled the Treasurer to prohibit a foreign takeover proposal from being implemented if contrary to the national interest. It is worth pointing out that the national interests as then defined by  Mr McMahon  in this House were virtually identical in terms to the definition used by the 
Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Stewart)  in his second reading speech on 22 May this year. 
The McMahon legislation was intended as only a temporary measure, as I have already pointed out. Nevertheless it has been extended by the Whitlam Government on no fewer than 2 occasions- first in 1973 and later in 1974 and it has taken  2Vi  years to draft this new legislation. The present Act does suffer from certain limitationsfor example it does not give the Treasurer the power to screen takeovers of assets and companies which are foreign-controlled but which have some Australian equity. Thus many takeovers have been consummated in recent years on an asset basis to escape the provisions of the Act. Similarly, some foreign companies have been able to structure their shareholdings to give the false appearance of being Australian controlled. This is achieved by share splitting or by concentrating control with one group of shareholders while another group simply has equity without the same degree of control. For example- I quoted this case when the legislation was last being extended in this House- Industrial Equity announced in May 1974 that it had restructured its issued shares by restricting the voting rights of overseas shareholders and large bundles of shares were placed in the hands of the staff superannuation fund. It is precisely to overcome that sort of activity which is quite obviously directed at finding loopholes in the legislation and therefore is not in Australie 's national interests that we are supporting this legislation. We believe, as we did when the original text was drafted in December 1972, that it goes a long way towards overcoming some of the more obvious problems we are facing in respect to foreign interest 
The Act has been administered in the past by the Committee on Foreign Takeovers. This was originally established by the McMahon Government. The Committee consisted of officers from various departments, including the Treasury. Information requested by the Committee then had to be placed in the hands of the Treasurer. It is worth pointing out, however, that in June 1 974 the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced the establishment of another committee, the Committee on Foreign Investment. It has never been explained to this House at least what are the distinctions in terms of the area of responsibility of these 2 committees. The latter one apparently reports to the Treasurer also and comprises representatives from the Department of Overseas Trade, the Department of Minerals and Energy and the Department of Manufacturing Industry. Its function is to provide advice on foreign investment proposals coming under notice through the exchange control mechanism, but which do not involve takeovers of Australian business. The Committee examines loans which foreign companies intend to arrange. If it decides that an intended loan requires further investigation, the approval or prohibition may take a further 4 months. Many companies are not clear as to which of these Committees they are supposed to be approaching. Therefore there has been a considerable degree of administrative overlap between the 2 committees. The confusion will, we hope, be overcome in this new legislation. 
In addition, this Government in December 1972 decided that 25 per cent of all overseas loans should be deposited with the Reserve Bank. The effect which that had in the following months on the rate of overseas investment was also a contributory factor to the very major downturn in the Australian economy which we have seen take place since then. In fact I noticed today a comment in the 5 November 1974 issue of the  Australian Financial Review  about how it was expected that the Government's decision to soften the requirements for the investment in the minerals industry would result in an inflow into Australia's mining industry sector of some $4,000m. They called it a 'coming mineral boom'. Regretably such optimism has certainly not seen fruit. If there is one thing Australia does need today more than she has in the last 5 years at least, it is an infusion of confidence both domestically and also from overseas to ensure that a serious attempt is made to increase the extent of investment in productive enterprises which will give Australians new jobs. One of the major difficulties we are facing as a result of Government policies is that the downturn in the economy is now having serious ramifications at all levels. 
Foreign investment, as other speakers have pointed out, has made a very valuable contribution to the growth, efficiency and diversification of the Australian economy. In fact, many of our vast natural resources would probably never have been discovered and certainly not utilised but for foreign investment and risk capital. For example, if the new legislation had been operative, say, 10 years ago it is likely that companies such as Hamersley, Utah and Esso would not have been involved in resource development in Australia. It is worth pointing out that Esso was one of the companies which was responsible for finding the oil in Bass Strait which remains today the only viable oil field discovered in Australia. Without foreign investment, therefore, 
Australia would be a less prosperous country. We would lack a firm industrial base which is essential for both economic development and strategic considerations. 
We must also appreciate that restrictions on foreign investment and the resulting increased demand in Australia for equity participation to replace foreign capital will mean that less capital resources are available for development under Australian control. Thus, the Government must ensure that foreign investors are not frightened away from Australia. Although at the eleventh hour it is all very well for people to say, as Ministers have said in recent months, that the present Australian Government welcomes investment, the fact of the matter is that the record of the Government over at least the last 2 years does not support such a view. 
Australia is at present experiencing a serious degree of capital starvation. I cited figures earlier to emphasise that point. The structure of the Australian capital markets has been basically altered by Labor through its desire to inject further funds into public projects at the expense of the private sector. This has resulted as a serious impairment to productivity in industry which in turn jeopardises both Labor's programs and real private income. The Government should note that private capital spending weakened by more than 5 per cent in real terms during the last March quarter alone, and new capital spending fell from $1,1 79m in the December quarter to $ 1,161m. It is worth pointing out that the  Chairman  of the Australian Industry Development Corporation,  Sir Alan  Westerman, has estimated that Austrafia is likely to need at least $ 1,560m during the next decade to finance mining and industrial ventures alone. Thus it is important to recognise the role which foreign investment will continue to play in Australia's growth. It is now essential that foreign investment is not discouraged. Of course there is a need to ensure that foreign investment is available to the sectors of the Australian economy where it is required in the national interest, and that the terms upon which foreign investment comes into this country are equitable and give a reasonable return both to the investor and to Australian business. 
There are a number of matters of specific relevance to this legislation to which I would like to draw the attention of the House. For example, there does not seem to be any provision in the Bill for an appeal against a ruling by the Treasurer. The power which the Treasurer has under this legislation is very broad indeed. Reasons for the prohibition of an acquisition could, under the provisions of the Bill, be given in rather imprecise terms. The Treasurer could simply declare that the proposed takeover is against the national interest without having to go into any further explanation. Under the Trade Practices Act, it is worth pointing out that a corporation must demonstrate a substantial public benefit. Under the Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Act, which we are debating, the Treasurer merely has to be satisfied that the merger will not be contrary to the national interest. I would suggest that there is a case, as was pointed out by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, for the Government to re-examine this to ascertain whether the actual administration of this legislation cannot be brought into line with that of the provisions of the Trade Practices Act. There is no point in having 2 Bills with 2 sets of complementary machinery. Both the tests and the procedures used for the latter Act appear to be less rigorous than the public benefit test under section 90 (5). Moreover, the non-public nature of the Treasury considerations as allowed for under this legislation, namely an interdepartmental committee, means that many interested persons will be unaware of the proposed acquisition of Australian assets and therefore cannot be in a position to make submissions to the Committee which they are able to do under the Trade Practices Act. 
I also suggest that the factors specifically regarded as crucial in assessing mergers under section 50 of the Trade Practices Act, namely a substantial lessening of competition in the market and substantial public benefit, are not necessarily pre-requisites to a finding of no objection by the Committee on Foreign Takeovers. The procedure by which the Treasurer may override the Committee and the tests applied could well mean in practice the exact opposite of what I presume the Government intends, namely that foreign corporations may be able to receive more favourable treatment than their domestic counterparts can at present. There is a danger that, in the long run foreign control may increase by means denied to domestic companies. Perhaps the best way to solve this problem would be to adopt a system under which all mergers would be subject to the same authorisation provisions as under the Trade Practices Act, and that the Treasurer should have an additional right of control by way of veto or otherwise under a Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Act. Thus all companies would be on an equal footing. I fear that the new Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Bill will have the effect of aggravating the existing situation by treating foreign assets acquisitions in the same manner as shares and will increase to an unprecented extent the Treasurer's powers under section 90 ( 1 1 ). 
Another apparent weakness in the legislation is that the Treasurer may not prohibit a proposal by a foreign person who already controls a corporation to increase the extent of his ownership of that corporation. This would appear to be an omission because if the Government's objective is to maximise the control of companies jointly owned by Australian and overseas interests, then such increases of control should be examined. It is worth pointing out, for example, that the present Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  stated in this House on 23 October 1 974 that he would be farming out a large number of surrendered off-shore leases on a 50-50 basis and that four of the major oil companies at present were lined up waiting to participate with us on that basis. I would like to know whether in fact companies entering into contracts with the Government, even on a 50-50 basis, would be subject to examination by the Foreign Takeovers Committee. 
In addition an examinable proposal under the legislation includes the acquisition of voting or non-voting rights in a corporation which has considered total assets greater than $3m. The Bill defines the value of assets in terms of balance sheet and book values. It could be more appropriate, I would suggest, for market values to be taken into account. For instance, if a mining company makes a discovery then the market value of the company will rise dramatically although its book value may well remain low. At the present time, for example, many companies are considerably undervalued in terms of their market value compared with their book value. Therefore assessing market values could be carried out by a suitably qualified person in relation to the application of this legislation. The Act should also include provision for foreign companies operating in Australia to supply information to the various stock exchanges on their activities as is presently required of Australian companies. There is no adequate provision for this in the legislation. 
In relation to the Securities and Exchange Bill, which is presently in another place, I think there is a case for some co-ordination of legislation rather than what appears to be an unnecessary degree of ad hock activity in this type of policy formulation. There is no doubt that foreign companies acting in Australia should be open to public scrutiny at least to the same extent as Australian public companies. In other words, a comprehensive foreign investment policy requires that the operations of foreign owned companies be supervised so that they are consistent with the national interest. If necessary, additional legislation could be introduced to facilitate the employment of Australian personnel in managerial positions and majority Australian representation on the board of directors. Taxation surveillance of overseas firms with subsidiaries operating in Australia is also necessary to ensure that they do not avoid taxation. But the important thing to. remember is that we need to have a reasonable partnership of Australian opportunity with foreign expertise, of foreign investment with Australian resources, because only through that partnership can this country develop to the extent to which it is obviously capable and thereby take a major step forward in overcoming the very real economic difficulties facing us at present. 
-If there had remained at this late hour any members of the joint Opposition Parties with any doubts on the veracity of this legislation, there can be no doubts in their minds now. The position adopted by the Opposition as to the need to move an amendment in respect of this legislation so that it will be given further consideration in anotherplace does not need further comment. We have seen tonight from the attitude adopted by members of the Government and the levity which was expressed in relation to the comments made by my dear colleague, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  demonstrates once again that we have today in Australia a government which is simply not interested in the affairs of state, the most essential one of which is the safeguarding of the security and integrity of the people and of their sessions. It is for that reason that we do bring into question all aspects of defence which have been affected by Government policy. 
We have not seen in any period of  2lh  years any government successfully achieve the dire results which this one has done. More than 1253 officers have resigned from the Armed Services. On a conservative estimate that means that we have probably lost approximately 10 000 man years of experience. All of this has been hidden below the concept of a better defence forces retirement benefits scheme. The fact is that I have on either side of me 2 colleagues who resigned from the Australian Army because they were sick and tired of the way in which the present Government was administering the defence forces. What more evidence do we need to bring into question the very substance and the very principles which underlie this piece of very doubtful legislation? 
Earlier, the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  made reference to the concept of no foreseeable threat for 15 years' a reference which the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  found, to say the least, very upsetting. If the Minister has a better definition of the Government's strategic doctrine, let us hear it. All honourable members on this side of the House and, I am sure, the people of this nation have heard all too often this concept of no foreseeable threat for 15 years. I use this as an additional leavening to add to the total incapacity of our defence forces to carry out the effective defence of 'Fortress Australia' another term which has been used by the Government. 
We are in a position today where we must consider seriously exactly what the Government is doing for the defence of Australia and what is the administrative backup and formulation of policy upon which this defence is supposed to take place. Are there any members of this Parliament who are so bereft of knowledge of history that they cannot look back to what happened in western Europe- in fact, the entire world- in the 1 920s and the 1 930s? Why was it that no government in the world in the mid- 1920s appreciated the rise of Nazi Germany and of Japanese militarism? Not one nation! Yet, in a mere 15 years, the world was cast into the depths of the greatest war that mankind has ever known. That lesson should have taught us that we must be vigilant at all times. That old adage that the best way to fight a war is to know how to defend the peace is, of course, accurate. Therefore, any defence reorganisation policy must be based on the prime requisite that through that reorganisation and administration of the Department of Defence we will have the most efficient, and effective military force that this country can possibly muster. It is on that basis, that the Opposition has questioned the principles which underlie this legislation. 
The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  found it upsetting that we had made certain references to  Dr Millar.  As the honourable member for Kennedy so rightly pointed out, when speaking of  Dr Millar  we are dealing with a man with substantial prestige in this area. It is perhaps a pity that this Government which found  Dr Millar  quite capable of presenting a report on the school cadets and the reserve forces did not put the same gentleman to work on the Tange Committee. Perhaps, we would have found another attitude which was, to say the least, a little less affected by the closeness of the 3 competent gentlemen who made up that Committee to the work which they were expected to carry out. Nevertheless, the Government did not appoint  Dr Millar  to that Committee. Therefore, I think that the comments that he has made are worth consideration. It is not simply good enough to pass off his views as just the views of an academic crank, because  Dr Millar  is no academic crank. Therefore, I ask the House to go through with me some of the assumptions to which  Dr Millar  drew attention in relation to this legislation. He made this point first: 
The new organisation needs to be the best possible one for peace, but should be able to be adapted for war without undue delay. 
I think that I have laboured that point sufficiently. Perhaps I should add also that if we are to have integration, which is the essence of this legislation, between the military and the civilian arms of the Department of Defence, it is not difficult to imagine in times of defence crisis the difficulties that will arise in handling such a situation when no fewer than 12 committees which are to be established in accordance with the Tange report must be dealt with. Let me outline the areas covered by those committees. They include: The Defence Co-ordination Committee, the Defence Program Committee, the Chiefs of Staff Committee- that is fair enough- the Defence Management Committee, the Plans and Operations Committee, the Defence Force Structure Committee, the Defence Operations Requirements Group, the Programs and Estimates Committee, the Defence Conditions of Service Committee, the Defence Science Board, the Dockyard Policy Committee and the Defence Research Development (Trials and Evaluation) Review Committee. None of these committees are to be headed by military personnel. All these committees are to be headed by civilians. Yet we are expected to believe that in a time of national emergency these people will be able to fit in with the exigencies of the situation. 
Let me quote the words of the honourable member for Macarthur. He said: 'They do not like being challenged by civilians with limited experience'. Of course the military personnel do not like being challenged by civilians with limited experience. Who would? Which member of this House wants to go out into his or her electorate and be told by somebody that he could do the job better than the member does? We all go through this experience. We do not like it. Neither does the military man. Neither does the lawyer, the doctor or any other professional person. If one has any professional expertise, the least that one can expect from one's masters is that they will give one the right to give sound advice and use one's expertise for the purposes for which one studied in the first place. This is a problem which is demonstrated right through this legislation. 
Let me emphasise to the House on another point made by the honourable member for Moreton. Proposed new section 8 provides: 
The Minister shall have the general control and administration of the Defence Force . . . 
Having read that provision, we find on the next 3 pages of the Bill how whatever little general control does exist within the whole context- and I beg the House to question with me what precisely is meant by 'general control'- is gradually but surely whittled away by committees, by various administrative techniques and by the desire to build up an efficient administrative machine within the context of the Public Service model. But, when we are talking about the defence services, with all due respect we are not talking about the general Public Service model which is there to carry out civilian administration, not military administration. There is a very big difference between the two. 
The second point that I wish to raise in this respect is to be found also in clause 6 of the Bill. Proposed new section 9A provides: 
1 ) Subject to  section  8, the Secretary and the Chief of Defence Force Staff shall jointly have the administration of the Defence Force except with respect to - 
Various qualifications are then set out. I find it fascinating that the Secretary and the Chief of the Defence Force Staff shall jointly have the administration of the Defence Force. I do not see any suggestion that the Chief of the Defence Force Staff should jointly administer the Department of Defence with the Secretary of that Department. Of course he should not, because he is on a lower rung altogether. It is the Secretary of the Department of Defence who ultimately will have the final word on every aspect of administration relevant to the defence services. In times of peace it is not just tactics that are important; administration must also be considered. It was because there were generals like Rommel in the Afrika Corps in the Second World War who not only were past masters at tactics but also knew their administration, that the Germans were successful for so long, until they ran into Allied generals and fighting machines which were even better. 
The lessons of military history are absolutely clear. We can go back to the days of Clausewitz, Napoleon Bonaparte or any of the great generals of the last 300 years, and the point is made that unless one has a very effective administrative machine backing up the military machine- I emphasise backing up the military machine- one will put one 's forces in time of war in a most parlous position. It is on this basis that we question this legislation because throughout the Bill we find this tendency to bureaucratise the military. Of course, we agree that there is a need at this time to co-ordinate the three defence Services. There is a case for the establishment of one Department of Defence. But I do say to the Minister, who served with me in the diplomatic service many years ago, that I question how he, with all his capacity and with the assistance of one man- I believe he has an assistant somewhere else- is going to be able to do the work which 5 ministers did in the previous governments of this nation. If the Minister is in fact to do anything more than, as I quoted in clause 15, have general control and if this Parliament is to have the capacity to control in any sense the military forces of this nation through the Minister of the day then the least the Government can do is to establish sufficient ministerial authority in this chamber. 
I question, as have all the honourable members on this side of the House who have spoken in this debate, how one man can possibly handle the work of five. It simply cannot be done efficiently, therefore, we should have a Minister for Defence and 3 Assistant Ministers, all of whom would be responsible for various elements of the totality. At least we can then control through this Parliament the administration, and the defence forces. We have seen too often in the past that where Parliament has lost control of its armed forces the capacity of democracy to survive has been questioned. Although I am not suggesting for a moment that that necessarily will be the outcome in Australia the fact still remains if the lessons of history are to be learned I sincerely hope that they will be, at least by the members of this Parliament- that we will be prepared to take the obvious steps which this House requires and let there be effective responsibility to the Parliament through the Minister and through his assistants for all aspects of the defence administration. 
Another point I wish to make is relevant to the question of the establishment of a defence council. With the destruction of the 3 Service boards, which probably was necessary within the context of establishing a united Department of Defence, the Opposition believes and with good reason that the links now between the Minister on the one hand and the heads of the Services on the other and their capacity to control the administration relevant to their Services are, to say the least, very tenuous indeed. We believe that one way in which this could be assisted to some extent would be the establishment of a national defence council, which would deal and act directly with the Minister and which would be made up of the 3 Service chiefs and the Secretary of the Department of Defence. Of course, as it is set out in the Tange report it is quite clear that the Secretary is in a position to deal individually with the heads of the Services on matters relevant to them but there is really no machinery by which the heads of the Services may adequately relate with each other on a lateral basis. Therefore, it is the lateral contact which is as important as anything else if we are to talk about the co-ordination of military activity. 
My final point is that we have asked through our amendment that this legislation be sent to another place and be reconsidered. The security of Australia is too important to be handled lightly and to be merely passed over because this legislation is the result of the Tange report. I have the greatest respect for the Secretary of the Department of Defence, but the fact of the matter is that we have grave doubts about the effectiveness of this legislation. It is only right that evidence should be taken at this stage by the Parliament of Australia, pro and contra, that the present Chiefs of Staff should be allowed to give evidence and that this Parliament should be given the opportunity of making up its own mind as to whether or not this legislation establishes machinery that we want for the defence of our country. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
How many Aborigines, not in the employ of the Government, have been brought to Canberra for discussions with the Minister or his predecessors since December 1 972. 
What has been the total cost of travel and sustenance associated with these visits. 

 Mr Les Johnson The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought is not available as most visits of the nature referred to in the question were made before I became Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and details of them are not available to me. 
-At question time this morning the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  and the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  two simple questions. They asked whether it was true that the Government had instructed certain Vietnamese refugees to sign statements requiring them not to be involved in Australian political life. The implication of those questions and the manner in which they were answered emphasise once again that this Government has plunged to new depths of political hypocrisy. This Government of compassion and concern has now found itself able to discriminate between people who live in this country. It is worth while reminding this Parliament and the people that in 1972 when this present 
Government went to the people, one of the objectives of its policy was to establish a bill of human rights to be applied throughout Australia. On page 45 of the Platform Constitution and Rules of the Australian Labor Party, we see that the Australian Constitution is to be amended to provide for the protection of fundamental civil rights and liberties. Paragraph 2 of the section on civil liberties states: 
The Australian and State Parliaments to pass Acts providing for human rights and civil liberties, and to take all possible legislative and administrative action and judicial proceedings to prevent infringement of such rights and liberties and in particular to prevent discrimination on the grounds of colour, race, sex, creed or politics. 
I stress the word 'polities'. We are faced today with a blatant attempt by -this Government to eat away at the fundamental rights of the Australian people. I should like to draw the attention of the House to the comment of the great French philosopher, Voltaire, who, in 1764, at the time of the French Revolution said: 'I disapprove of what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it'. 
We on this side of the House know the views which the present Government has on Vietnam. We understand the attitudes of the Prime Minister, but we do not necessarily agree with nor accept them. But to suggest that people who have been allowed to come to this land, who have lost so much, their possessions, their rights in their own country and above all some of their self respect, should now be permitted to enter Australia as second class citizens and be denied the inalienable rights which we all take for granted, is a situation which I for one view with abhorrence and dismay. I wish to make it quite clear at this point that, whether a person is a Chilean, a Bait, a Ugandan, a Cypriot or a Vietnamese, once given permission to enter Australia they should have the full rights and responsibilities under the law of this land. These rights are inalienable. They cannot be divided, and above all they should not be applied, on the basis of race or political belief. What people were in their last country of residence is irrelevant. What is important is that the Government of the day permitted them to enter Australia. In allowing them to do so, it should have taken into account the full implications of that action. Above all, it is essential that people who live in Australia be given the full rights under the law. 
I submit that the Government, by this action, has contravened Articles 14 and 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Let me read out, for the benefit of this House, what those articles contain. In Article 14 we are told: 
Everyone had the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries an asylum from persecution. 
We have brought into this land political refugees from many lands. In recent years the 2 most notable groups have been the Chileans and the Vietnamese. They came specifically with the objective of finding a new home free from persecution and where they would be allowed to live their lives as they wished with only one control, namely, the laws of Australia. Certainly there is no law of which I am aware which dictates that any person or any citizen living in this land should be prevented from enjoying to the full his democratic rights. Article 19 of the Declaration is also relevant and states as follows: 
Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers. 
The Prime Minister, in justification of his action, made the spurious point that he was trying more or less to protect these people against us members of the Opposition and against those elements in the Australian community who, he alleged, would use them for devious political ends. I suggest that the Prime Minister should give us some credit. The Vietnamese war is over. We have to live with Vietnam, regardless of its political complexion. I would hope that he would expect this Opposition to have the capacity to know that, having seen the march of history, we now have to live with the outcome tomorrow. It is not in our interests nor in the interests of the Vietnamese refugees for us to continually rake over old coals. We have to build our relationships with Vietnam. To suggest that we are going to utilise these people for so-called nefarious political purposes is a deliberate attempt to discredit the Opposition with no evidence and shows the Prime Minister for what he is- a shallow person who assumes that his political opposition has no morality and does not support Australia's essential interests. 
I hope that this House will take this matter seriously, because there are many migrant groups in Australia, whether they be Jews, Arabs, Czechs, Yugoslavs, people from the Baltic states, Ugandans, Chileans or Vietnamese, who came to this land with the presumption that they were coming to a country of freedom. In Australia the right of freedom of speech is a fundamental human right. It is one which this Parliament must forever be willing to defend, for should we lose in any degree the right of freedom of speech we will be faced with the situation which Edmund Burke described so well: 
Whilst freedom is true to itself, everything becomes subject to it. 
This Government should remember well the advice of the great Roman philosopher Cicero, who said: 
Freedom suppressed and again regained bites with keener fangs than freedom never endangered. 
-This has been a most fascinating and interesting evening. In fact, during the last 2 nights members of this House have had more opportunities to discuss Australia's defence preparedness than we have had probably in the entire  2Vi  years of the present Government's term of office. I thank, in particular, the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  for giving such an excellent exposition on tattoos and turkeys. I cannot help being amazed at how many members of the present Government become experts in the field of foreign affairs at such short notice. 
We need to take particular note of the fact that the very few members of the Government Party who have bothered to speak on this most important Bill have emphasised what is better known as the view of the left wing of the Party. We have been told, for example, by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  that 'this is not the world of the past in which the ANZUS Treaty was written' that 'the hours of peril and need are receding more rapidly than in the past' and that the present Opposition, when it was the Government of this Commonwealth, was but a satellite of the United States of America' in foreign affairs. So he went on. He was prepared to describe this piece of legislation as 'a relic of the past', saying that 'it was one of the most mischievous operations of the last Government'. 
Having placed the view of Government members in context I refer now to a comment about the Agreement made by a former Minister for External Affairs,  Sir Garfield  Barwick. What he said in 1963 is still relevant today: 
Only those who live in a world of fantasy can deny the vital importance in peace-time of such a system of communication as an item of defence preparation and preparedness. Indeed, its very existence is a significant element in the deterrence of aggression. Those who are interested in peace may well set much store by this aspect of the establishment of this station. 
Regardless of the situation, for many yearssince 1963, in fact- the Australian Labor Party insisted on renegotiating the agreements concerning foreign bases, and it based its insistence on the concept of sovereignty. However, as we can see with this legislation, the fact is that the renegotiation was nothing more than a sham to meet the dictates of a left wing dominated Australian Labor Party. The members of the Australian Labor Party Executive may no longer be faceless, but they still control that Party, just as they did in 1963 when the leaders of the Parliamentary Party were left out in the street in the middle of a Canberra winter. Regrettably, since that time the Australian Labor Party has not altered its attitude towards the base at NorthWest Cape. What we must remember, however, is that  Sir Garfield  Barwick, when he explained the question of sovereignty in relation to the Agreement between the United States and Australia, said that Article 3 of the Agreement performed 2 functions, and the first one was the more relevant. He said: 
It provides for consultation between the 2 Governments and it limits the use to which this station may be put. 
I emphasise that point because at various stages over the last few years Labor Party organisations have suggested that atomic bombs and so forth may be kept at this base. If that ever did happenand it did not- it would have been quite contrary to the basic understanding between the then Australian Government and the Government of the United States. 
Last month I was in Washington and I took the opportunity while there to discuss with the Americans precisely what is the relevance of this facility in relation to their global requirements. They emphasised to me that the North- West Cape base is still of primary importance for communications, and that is all it is. It is a base for the transference of messages from Washington to naval units in the Pacific and Indian ocean areas. It also has the capacity, as the honourable member for Hunter correctly pointed out, to make contact with nuclear submarines. What is so unusual about that when all the major powers today- Britain, the United States, possibly China and certainly the Soviet Union and Francehave nuclear submarines and submarines with nuclear potential? It is therefore not unreasonable that any State having available any facilities of this type would use them as a means of communication with all their units and bases. 
Nevertheless, this Government was forced by the organisational wing of the Party to go to Washington to re-negotiate this agreement, and the Minister at the time made great play of his claim that the Austraiian people had been sold out in 1963 and this Government was going to right a wrong. It was an act of treachery, we were told by the Minister for the Capital Territory. Where was this act of treachery? We entered into this agreement because we were requested to do so by an ally, the United States, which at that time was, as it still is, a signatory to the ANZUS Treaty. The essence of the ANZUS Treaty is that all 3 parties- the United States, New Zealand and Australia- are expected to take necessary action separately and jointly to develop their individual and collective capacity to resist armed attack. Therefore, the establishment of this naval facility was an obvious method by which the United States could play its part under the ANZUS pact as well as meet its global commitments. As far as Australia was concerned, the provision of the site for this base gave us a capacity to live up to our side of the agreement. 
What this Government fails to realise is that there is no point in giving lip service to agreements such as ANZUS unless it is prepared to take an active interest in the Treaty and make it viable. It is no good regarding it just as a piece of paper that can be abrogated whenever it suits Australia. Recently the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  came back from the United States and emphasised that the ANZUS Treaty remains a cornerstone of Australian foreign policy. Why did he say that? Does he really believe it or is he just trying to pander to an electorate which he should know as well as we do is very conscious of the need to build up sufficient defence capacity in this country and through our alliances so that Australia's future can be secure. 
Unfortunately in the last 2 years we have heard so many doubts thrown on the capacity of the ANZUS Treaty. I had reason in Washington to say to the Americans: 'Exactly what is the substance of ANZUS today?' In other words: 'Are you prepared to back Australia if we are threatened by an external power?' I was told without any equivocation that there are certain areas of the world whose future as far as the 
United States is concerned is simply not negotiable. One of those areas, of course, is western Europe; another is Israel; the third is Japan; the fourth is Australia and New Zealand. That order has no significance. Then I went a step further and said to the State Department and Defence Department officials I was talking to: 'Under what conditions will you consider the ANZUS Treaty to be no longer- of effect?' The reply was equally cogent. They said: 'We shall consider the ANZUS Treaty to be viable and effective so long as the Australian Government is prepared to honour it and is prepared to show itself to be an ally of the United States in the full sense of the word '. This simply is a take it or leave it situation but the Government cannot have it both ways. If it wants to have the ANZUS Treaty it must accept the responsibilities and obligations of Australia as well as those of the United States and New Zealand. It is time that this Government was honest enough to tell the people whether it is prepared to live up to these responsibilities or not. 
This Treaty, linked in as closely as it is with such bases as the US naval communication station, cannot be seen in a piecemeal manner and it is for that reason that although the Opposition is supporting the amendments to this legislation we are not prepared to accept many of the strange concepts, cliches and shibboleths which we have heard from the Government side tonight. We are certainly not prepared to accept the claim that we committed acts of treachery when we entered into this agreement with the specific intention of honouring our obligations to the ANZUS alliance. 
I wish to make some comments on the condition of the coal industry in Australia at the present time with special reference to New South Wales. The imposition by the Government of an export levy will have a major effect upon the present coal industry, which is one of the few Australian exporting industries which still remains viable despite  2lA  years of chaotic and disastrous mismanagement of the economy of this country. The coal industry anticipates export earnings in 1975-76 of $650m. This is to attract a revenue of some $ 120m in addition to normal company and dividend taxation provisions. I emphasise that I do not wish to criticise directly the principle of taxation upon export income but rather the manner in which it has been applied and the Government 's lack of consultation with the industry before the decisions were made. 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  Coal pricing is a very sensitive aspect of the industry, especially when prices relate to the carbon content of the coal. There is some doubt that the Government appreciates this. For example, there may be a price difference of some $3 or $4 per tonne between coal with a carbon content of 82 per cent to 83 per cent and coal with a carbon content of 85 per cent or more. One would presume that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  who has a considerable amount of coal and a large number of coal mines in his electorate, would have a deep knowledge of the coal industry. But there are reasons to suggest that he has not given the Government the benefit of the knowledge or the experience which allegedly he has. The major difficulty which industry is facing is not simply the militant industrial action which is taking place at the present time in a number of collieries on the New South Wales south coast; it involves also the future of coal sales and specifically export sales. It is in this context, therefore, that all forms of taxation are of consideragle relevance. 
In my opinion the best way in which taxation can be applied to an export industry such as the coal industry is by a differential profit tax or a super company tax on coal exports rather than a tax on mere volume of output. I submit that a tax on volume of output is intrinsically inequitable, especially as it would apply to different qualities of coal. The impostion of all forms of taxation on the industry can have and has had a very serious effect, especially on the coal producers on the south coast of New South Wales. I submit that the Minister for Minerals and Energy has failed to appreciate the implications of his policies in this regard. For example, let us compare the operating costs of 2 companies, one in Queensland and one in New South Wales. The operating costs of the Bellambi Coal Co. Ltd and Utah Development are the 2 examples I wish to draw on. 
In 1974-75 Bellambi 's operating costs were approximately $24.50 per tonne. In 1973-74 the costs were approximately $16.25 per tonne, which was significantly less. Utah Development's costs for 1974-75 were approximately $1 1.50 to $12.50 per tonne compared with $8.40 during the previous year, 1973-74. All these figures exclude interest, depreciation and other provisions, which of course are very relevant in coming to a final figure for net profitability. In addition to that, Utah's figures also exclude export taxes. 
I submit that the Government has failed to realise that the cost of production is a crucial element in all aspects of profitability, especially in an industry such as the coal industry, which is subject to so many variables. If one examines the earning estimates of the Bellambi Coal Co. Pty Ltd, the effect of any form of tax can be calculated on the basis of sales to Japan of washed coal which in the forthcoming financial year are expected to be some 600 000 to 900 000 tonnes. It is difficult to be more precise because of extensive industrial unrest, which we are all aware is presently inhibiting production at the South Bulli Colliery. Therefore, any form of taxation in the coming year will be applicable to some $3m to $4.5m, depending on the volume of sales. In 1974-75, exports were responsible for taxation of approximately $200,000. Operating costs are expected to rise, however, in the forthcorning financial year to over $29 per tonne. Therefore the impact of any form of additional taxation will be to convert a net loss of $ 120,000 to an excessive loss of $1.3m. I should like to repeat that authoritative projections show that this company's profits could be negative during 1976. 
I should like to draw the attention of the House to the effect of coal company closures on the industrial situation and also the effect of reduced scales of operation on the South Coast. The Bellambi Coal Co. employs approximately 890 people. It is also examining the feasibility of establishing another colliery at West Bulli. Kembla Coal and Coke Pty Ltd also employs approximately 850 people in the same area and has been examining the prospect of setting up a new colliery at West Cliff, while Clutha Development Pty Ltd employs approximately 1 100 personnel. There are 2 smaller producers of high quality export coal, Austen and Butta Ltd, and in addition there is the Electricity Commission of New South Wales. The export tonnages of those companies, although of high quality coal, are much smaller and therefore they are less affected by taxation problems. 
I wish to emphasise, therefore, that up to 2800 people could well lose their means of livelihood if there are any further additional costs involved in the production of coal, especially on the South Coast of New South Wales. In addition to that, there are other associated industries such as the haulage and service industries which must suffer if coal companies either cease or scale down their activities in any way. Therefore, additional employment opportunities will be lost because new collieries will not be opened by the companies which will be in a position where they have little alternative but to struggle to survive. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table setting out the details of those South Coast coal companies which will be affected in the way I have outlined. 

<graphic href="096131197508264_78_14.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. I will also provide details of further costs to the House if it would assist the Government to understand the problems facing the coal industry at the present time. Queensland producers, on the other hand, who produce a much higher quality coal on the whole, have been presumed by the Government to be able to pay any additional costs which might be applied to them. The difficulty is that there is no equality of production quality in the coal industry and what applies to Queensland does not necessarily apply to New South Wales. Regrettably, the Government seems to have entirely missed that fact. The situation today is so bad that at present companies face three rather unpalatable alternatives. They may ask the Japanese to pay additional costs. However, in view of the depressed steel market in Japan at present it is unlikely that they will be prepared to do so. The companies can ask the Government for additional assistance and lower taxation. The only other alternative is to close down the mines as uneconomic ventures. In view of the very serious employment situation throughout Australia and especially in areas of the south coast, I urge the Government to reexamine immediately all aspects of its policy towards the coal industry, especially as it applies to underground mines, before jobs are lost and companies cease to operate. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Did he state on 23 October 1974 that some 40 small companies were vulnerable to takeover by overseas companies. 
If so, can he name these small companies. 
Which of these companies have received assistance, and under what conditions was such assistance given. 
-This has been a most important and illuminating Budget debate; important because we stand at the crossroads of Australia's economic future and illuminating because in my short experience in this House this is the first occasion where the philosophic battle lines between those who espouse a true liberal philosophy compared with those who espouse a philosophy of socialism has been drawn so clearly. We have been told this evening, for example by the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child),  that the philosophy that my Party espouses, and which was so adequately expressed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in an address to the National Press Club on 3 1 July last, is that we stand for a policy of 'survival of the fittest'. I cannot but help draw a certain parallel between the honourable member's remarks and those made by Henry Louis Mencken, a noted 19th century American editor, who no doubt at the time did not realise that there were female socialists. He gave the following definition of a socialist 
A man suffering from an overwhelming compulsion to believe what is not true. 
I take this opportunity for the advantage of the honourable member for Henty and her colleagues to read into  Hansard  certain relevant sections of the speech made by my Leader to the National Press Club on 3 1 July 1 975. He said: 
Whatever have been the failings of the past, they should not be seen as setting a pattern for future Liberal Governments. The next Liberal Government is already marking out a distinctive course for itself. The course is based on the recognition that social change is inevitable and desirable. It is based on the recognition that the job of Government is to pursue policies which contribute to a sense of self-respect for every person- a self-respect on which tolerance and selffulfilment can be built. 
He went on to say: 
The next Liberal Government will be individualist in the best sense of the word. Its individualism will stress not survival of the fittest, but concern for the value of each person. 
I hope that the honourable member for Henty has marked well those words because that policy certainly does take into account the sick, the old and the handicapped and it certainly will not be through the policies of the party for which I stand that any of these groups will suffer the way they have been forced to suffer in recent times due to the profligate spending of this Government and its policies which have done everything conceivable to encourage the most incredible rate of inflation that this nation has experienced since the turn of the century. 
We are in every sense of the word almost a bankrupt nation. Yet, at the same time, Australia is known to be one of the richest states on this earth. If we are in this situation it is not as members of the Government would have us believe, because we are but a part of a world which is suffering from inflation. It is true that other countries are suffering from inflation. But other countries through the fact that they have had the courage to take the necessary decisions have made very substantial inroads both in terms of their rate of unemployment as well as their rate of inflation. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  in his Budget Speech made the point that his Government had made every attempt possible to limit the impact of what he regarded as extreme political actions to overcome these major economic problems. What he has not told us, however, is that in his attempts to overcome these problems we have still found ourselves today in a situation where Australia has the highest rate of unemployment in our recent history. During the 1972 election campaign the then Leader of the Opposition- if the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had not made these remarks one could say that they were made by the present Leader of the Oppositionhad this to say: 
Do you believe that Australia can take another 3 years like the last 20 months? Will you accept another 3 years of waiting for next week's blunder? Will you again entrust the nation's economy to men who deliberately and needlessly created the worst unemployment for 10 years and the worst inflation for 20 years? 
-The present Prime Minister. And to what statistics was he referring? When these remarks were made Australia's rate of inflation was approximately 4.5 per cent and unemployment 1.94 per cent or in real terms 80 000 people. 
The honourable member may well ask what it is now. I will tell him. It is 287 666. 1 would venture to suggest that that is not an accurate figure as  Mr Hawke  and other members of the Australian Council of Trade Unions have already pointed out on various occasions because of the way the Government has played with the statistics. The Government has gone out of its way to make sure that all of those receiving unemployment benefits, all of those who are getting assistance under the Regional Employment Development scheme and the National Employment and Training scheme as well as aU of those wives or husbands whose other spouse happens to be working but they are not employed are not counted as unemployed. I ask: How can we possibly accept that 287 666 is in any sense an accurate figure? But if the figure were twice or even half that the fact of the matter is that there is no excuse for this country and for the people of Australia to have to suffer the economic dislocation, the fear and the uncertainty which has been forced upon them by a Government which has said to the people on so many occasions and whose members have said to this House that it stands for compassion and concern. 
I ask the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young):  Where is his compassion and concern for the waterside workers in his electorate who, as with the waterside workers in the port of Sydney, do not have enough work because there are not enough ships coming in and there is not enough trade? Is it any advantage to be able to stand on high as the Government does today, looking around at the ruins of its own creation? This is what the Government has to consider because today the people of this country had expectations that the Government in its third Budget would have learnt from the mistakes of its last 2 Budgets and would have had the courage to take real decisions which are so necessary if this nation is to get out of the current crisis of the highest inflation in Australia's history and the highest rate of unemployment since the Depression. This is a crisis which is eating away at the confidence and the security of every citizen of Australia 
Wherever I go in the city of Sydney I am asked: 'When are you going to get them out? When are we going to have a Government that we can respect? When are we going to have people in charge of the nation's responsibilities with the courage of their convictions to take decisions even if they are difficult?' After all, if we espouse to rule it is important that we have the courage to take difficult decisions as well as easy ones. The Government has shown after 214 years and its third Budget that it does not have the fundamental intestinal fortitude to make these decisions. 
Two weeks ago in this House the Leader of the Opposition put forward an alternative economic plan. This is the first time in recent years that an Opposition- and this was certainly not done by the present Government when it was in Opposition has been prepared to put to the people of Australia alternative Budget proposals. These proposals are in fact a blueprint for the economic recovery of Australia. I wish to enunciate the proposals to this House so that they may be recorded in  Hansard  and enable the people of Australia to read them and not have to depend entirely on the daily Press. I want to state precisely to the House the points that were made by my Leader on that occasion. In terms of inflation and unemployment the basis of our policy is as follows: The recommendations of the Mathews Committee report on taxation for individuals and companies will be adopted over a 3 year period. I think it is worth pointing out that the present Government had the opportunity, when that report was tabled, to accept its basic principles. It had the chance to bring in wage indexation, it had the opportunity to bring in tax indexation, and it accepted neither. 
Debate interrupted. 
-When this debate was adjourned last evening, I was elucidating for the benefit of the House the important differences between the policies enunciated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  last week to solve Australia's present economic difficulties and the proposals enunciated in this Budget. I made the point that the Government had not accepted the fundamental recommendations of the Mathews Committee relating to indexation. I think it is worth pointing out that the previous Minister for Labor and Immigration, the present Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  espoused the principle of indexation but he also insisted on including a plateau principle which, if implemented, would have totally destroyed all wage relativities presently in use. Naturally, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, when considering this rejected that principle. By contrast, the Opposition has accepted the recommendations in the Mathews report on personal tax and wage indexation because we believe that it is essential. It is worth noting also that this is the policy of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the trade union movement. Consequently, we believe that the Mathews recommendations could form the basis of an agreement between labor, capital and government which would mobilise a national consensus to defeat the related evils of unemployment and inflation. It is with profound regret that we have seen this Government, with its fanatical belief in outmoded socialist shibboleths, refuse to give the necessary national leadership on this most vital issue. 
I shall now elucidate further the economic policy of the Opposition. We would introduce a 3-year budgetary program to reduce inflation and unemployment and to restore economic prosperity, with firm action commencing this year. In addition to that, we would propose income tax reductions of $500m in 1975-76 which would boost demand, productivity and employment. Again I must refer to the Mathews report which emphasised the need to reduce taxation on individuals as a means of increasing incentive within the economy. For that reason, we would propose that the taxation scales should be restructured to assist families, especially single income families. As the Leader of the Opposition pointed out to the House, we believe that the proposals contained in this Budget relative to the restructuring of the income tax scales are simply a fraud. Anyone who examines those proposals in depth and who relates the proposed reductions in direct taxation to the fact that the Government also has introduced indirect taxation increases on a mammoth scale on fuel, spirits, beer and coal exports. This will have the result not only of increasing inflation throughout the economy but also of affecting mainly those very sections of the community which this Government espouses a real humanitarian desire to assist. 
The other major aspect of our policy is that government expenditure must be resolutely controlled. The House should appreciate that government spending has risen by more than $9,405m or by 80 per cent in the last 2 years alone. In this context I wish to quote from the section of the Budget Papers relating to outlays and receipts. It states that in the year 1972-73 total outlays were $10,192m. For 1975-76 this is increased in the Estimates to $2 1,915m. If we can judge on last year's experience and that of the previous year, there is no reason for us to accept that the estimates of Government expenditure for 1975-76 will be accurate. If the economy continues its downward trend, there is every expectation that unemployment will increase and, therefore, the requirement for social welfare payments in particular will increase. 
We must also anticipate that there will be a further lowering of productivity and sales in various sectors of the economy and that therefore receipts from taxation will undoubtedly be lower this financial year than the Treasury has anticipated. I think the House should also realise that in the 10-year period from 1965-66 to 1975-76 total government outlays increased from $5,029m to $21,915m, an increase of over 400 per cent in a mere 10 years. Regrettably the fact is that Australia's gross domestic product in that same period of time has not increased to a commensurate level. It is also worth pointing out that in terms of deficit financing, in 1970-71, which was certainly a very effective budgetary year for the then Liberal-Country Party Government, we went to the people with a deficit of only $10m compared with an estimated deficit on 1975-76 of $2,798m. Those facts speak for themselves. 
The income policy of the Liberal and National Country Parties will be designed to control inflation, provide greater equity between taxpayers and restore incentive to work and save. In addition to that we propose procedures to be followed by the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to determine wages and that these determinations must be supported by the Government. Again the sad fact is that the last 3 years have shown quite conclusively that the key which opened the Pandora's Box of our present problems was the decision taken early in 1973 by the then Minister for Labor and Immigration, supported by Cabinet, to intervene in the national wage case. In that intervention the Government asked the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to consider re-opening the case and to agree that the pacesetter principle using the Public Service as a pacesetter should be introduced. 
That was the crucial take-off point for the massive wage demands which have dedevilled the Australian economy ever since and will lead this Government to the premature political grave to which it is undoubtedly destined. The difficulties we are facing are therefore historic. They are not simply the result of decisions taken overseas. Indeed there is inflation overseas but, as has been pointed out by the International Monetary Fund, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and other international organisations whose judgment is accepted by this Government when it happens to suit it, the decisions taken by the present Australian Government are directly responsible for the present situation facing this country. 
I turn now to the Opposition's policy relative to investment and productivity because it is in this area specifically where we must expect the first improvement to take place to get us out of the present decline. We propose major reform of the company taxation system based on the implementation of the recommendations of the Mathews Committee. For example, stock valuation adjustment proposals in the Mathews report will be introduced for company tax payable in 1975-76 at 50 per cent of the rate for stock valuation, with company tax at 45 per cent, which was also recommended by the Committee. The company tax rate during this period will be held at least at last year's level of 45 per cent. This again was recommended by the Mathews Committee. The company taxation reforms will be introduced to provide a solid basis for the restoration of business confidence. The second and third stages of the Mathews reforms will be implemented within the 3-year budgetary period which we regard as the essential basis upon which restoration of economic viability must be planned and attained. In addition, a 40 per cent investment allowance will be introduced to supersede the accelerated depreciation allowance and will be available for plant and equipment installed before June 1977. This allowance will be continued at 20 per cent for a further 5-year period; and quarterly company tax payments will be suspended. Of specific relevance to small business is the need to make adjustments for private companies and small businesses to the system of taxation of retained earnings. Let us now examine what is the Government's policy towards restoration of confidence in this sector of the economy which is so vital. The Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  in his Budget Speech said: 
The Government has decided to adopt this alternative and proposes to reduce the general rate of company tax by 2.S per cent to 42.5 per cent. The new rate will apply to 1 974-75 income and will cost an estimated $120m in 1975-76. 
In addition to that, and as an example of the Government's great generosity to the private sector, which, incidentally, is employing over three quarters of all wage earners in Australia, and to the small business sector in particular which is responsible for employing 40 per cent of the Australian work force, all the Government was prepared to do was to continue the system of double rates of depreciation beyond 30 June 1975 and extend it to all sectors of commerce and industry. What more proof do we need to see this Government's lack of appreciation of the real difficulties which the business sector is facing in Australia today. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.57 to 2.1 5 p.m. 

-I direct direct a question to the Minister for Health. Is it correct that Medibank administration was established on the premise that bills for payment would be received at the rate of 300 000 per week and would be paid within 5 days; that in the first month of operation Medibank received some 700 000 accounts, and this has resulted in delays of between 3 and 5 weeks in payment? In view of the Government's statements that Medibank would make payments in 5 days, what does the Government propose to do about the delays in payment? 
-On this occasion I wish to confine my remarks to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill and the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Bill. As honourable members are aware, ASIO was originally established by a previous Australian Labor Party Prime Minister,  Mr Chifley,  on 16 March 1949. On that occasion a very significant directive was issued which stated that the security service formed part of the Attorney-General's Department and that the Attorney-General was to be responsible for it to the Parliament. Furthermore, the directive also stated that the Director-General would have access to the Prime Minister at all times. 
The amendments which have now been proposed by the Government are quite significant to the conduct of ASIO's relations. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is taking unto himself administrative powers which previously have been vested in the Attorney-General, despite the fact that successive governments have emphasised that at all times the DirectorGeneral of ASIO was to have access to the Prime Minister. The reasons behind these changes can only be the subject of conjecture. The Prime Minister has not advised the Parliament as to why he considers them necessary. It is worth emphasising that following the undertaking contained in his policy speech on 29 April 1974 the Prime Minister established a commission of inquiry under  Mr Justice  Hope to conduct a judicial inquiry into the structure of the Australian security service and into methods of reviewing decisions adversely affecting citizens or migrants. 
The Telephonic Communications (Interception) Bill is particularly pertinent both to the inquiry conducted by  Mr Justice  Hope and to the amendments which have been introduced into this House. What we must keep in mind, however, is that to date no Australian Prime Minister has ever had the responsibility before Parliament for the security organisation as it is presently constituted. It was in the past, and still is, until this legislation is passed, vested in the AttorneyGeneral.  Mr Chifley,  when he established ASIO, and later  Sir Robert  Menzies, adopted the same practice in their respective directives which were issued to the Directors-General of ASIO. 
It is not impossible, in fact it is quite likely, that  Mr Justice  Hope has already given the Prime Minister a memorandum suggesting these amendments, but it is not unreasonable for us to suggest that the exercise of responsibility conducted by the previous Attorney-General of this Commonwealth, in his actions in raiding ASIO in 1973, and the profound effect which that action had on the Organisation, could well have led the Prime Minister to conclude that he could not trust any other Minister within his ministry to conduct and oversee the vital work which is the responsibility of ASIO. 
But  Mr Whitlam  's attitude is in contrast to that of  Mr Chifley,  who set the tone as to how Parliament should consider questions concerning ASIO when he emphasised in this House on 9 June 1949 that 'the Director-General had been given complete authority on security matters' and that he did not propose to interfere with him in the discharge of his functions. It is a regrettable fact that the previous Attorney-General of this country did interfere with the discharge of those functions, and furthermore the interference was proved to be of no purpose whatever, for the document which he alleged had not been given to him was in fact in his possession all the time. 
If we are to see in the amendments now proposed a diminution in that sort of ministerial activity, then of course the Opposition must applaud them. On the other hand, however, we feel quite justified in stating before this House that a government which declares itself to be in favour of a policy of open government, which declares itself to be in favour of advising the Australian people as much as it can on the reasons why actions have to be taken, should inform this House and therefore the Australian people as to why the Prime Minister considers it necessary to change the administrative arrangements concerning the conduct of the affairs of ASIO. 
The legislation of 1956 upon which ASIO was founded is by its very nature less than concise, but it is worth while on this occasion emphasising what are the functions of the Organisation as set out in that Act. They are threefold. Firstly, to obtain, correlate and evaluate intelligence relevant to security and, at the discretion of the Director-General, to communicate any such intelligence to such persons, and in such manner, as the Director-General considers to be in the interests of security; secondly, to advise Ministers, where the Director-General is satisfied that it is necessary or desirable to do so, in respect of matters relevant to security, insofar as those matters relate to departments of State administered by them or to authorities of the Commonwealth established by or under Acts administered by them; and thirdly, to co-operate with such departments of State and authorities of the Commonwealth and, so far as is practicable, with such departments and authorities of the States and of other countries as are capable of assisting the Organisation in the performance of its functions. 
It is a regrettable fact that over the period of its existence ASIO has been on many occasions subjected to a continuing campaign of denigration, vilification and irresponsible questioning both through the media and in this Parliament. This started very early, in fact on 10 March 1949,  Mr Chifley  made this point: 
. I will not discuss in detail in this House the proposed activities of the new security organisation. It is not the practice in any country to reveal such matters. I do not propose to answer questions about the organisation unless they involve matters of great public interest. I certainly will not answer questions asked about the organisation merely for political party propaganda purposes. ' 
I applaud those sentiments, and I am sure members on all sides of this House should do so. Regrettably, however, there has always been a tendency for some people to take the view that we need not have security organisations. Unfortunately, every country- I emphasie that, every country- has a form of internal security. An effective internal intelligence organisation such as ASIO must be devoted to protecting Australia's internal security. This is obviously essential. It is a primary responsibility of any government of the day. 
There have been so many examples in recent years of spies being discovered in important positions of State overseas and of actions being taken to subjugate countries by interfering with their domestic processes that quite clearly there is a need to have an organisation capable of examining subversive activities and making sure that the government of the day is aware of the actions of individuals and organisations whose primary purpose is to subject the state to internal pressures which it could better do without. Let me give some examples, Gunther Guillaume, the third man' in the West German civil service was later proved to be a communist spy. The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation,  Mr Clark,  stated not so long ago that, notwithstanding detente, communist spying was on the increase. Publications on the KGB by John Barron are a revelation of the extent to which communist activists are still operating in the Western world. For example, when the Egyptians threw out the Russians in July 1972 they found a very deep and complex system of espionage throughout the Egyptian civil service and military. 
In 1973 the Institute for the Study of Conflict showed that between 1485 and 2146 Soviet official representatives in Europe over a 10-year period were involved to some degree with elements of commercial, industrial or defence spying. The same was found to be the case in Mexico in 1970 and in the Sudan in 1971. Great Britain in 1971, the same year, publicly expelled 105 Soviet officials after finding evidence of a campaign of subversion and sabotage and we must not forget our own Petrov and Scripov affairs. I am not attempting on this occasion to rattle the communist can. I wish merely to make it quite clear that no State can maintain its sovereignty unless it has a system of internal surveillance such as ASIO to defend the state against those persons, both within and without, who want to see the Australian people lose their freedom. 
I wish now to refer to the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Bill. As has already been pointed out by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  we will accept the amendments which have been proposed, but we have doubts as to whether it is necessary for the Prime Minister to take unto himself such very vital responsibilities in relation to individual rights. Prime Ministers are extremely busy people and there has always been a tendency, regrettably, to hand over to civil servants the powers which in this case should if held be the absolute preserve of the Prime Minister or of whichever Minister is given the responsibility. Delegation is a real danger in a situation such as this and unless we can be assured that the people of Australia are able to live as they wish and to say what they think in a free and open atmosphere, any suggestion of a police state must be regarded with considerable caution. The Watergate incidents could well happen here if a Prime Minister is given absolute power to supervise in any way a freedom of others. 
-In relation to the remarks just made by the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby),  I seek his indulgence to consider a report which appeared in the  Canberra Times  on 8 October this year. It contained extensive quotations which were purported to be from the actual directive given by no less than 3 Prime Ministers to the heads of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation stating precisely their areas of responsibility. If these quotations are correct- I would be delighted to show them to the Minister- they bring to question the substance of his remark in relation to precisely what was the position of previous Prime Ministers concerning the powers, responsibilities and authority of the heads of ASIO. As I mentioned in my speech during the second reading debate, there is no doubt that ever since the days of the establishment of ASIO under Prime Minister Chifley the Director-General has been able to act and function as an independent person, outside the normal structure of the Public Service, to report to the Prime Minister on matters of policy and otherwise to report to Ministers in relation to their specific responsibilities. For the benefit of the House I want to quote a relevant section of this report which brings into question the ministers interpretation of past events. 
It is said to be an accurate statement. 
It is just that I see a major distinction between the history of ASIO and what the Minister has said in this House. 
-Thank you. The article stated: 
The Prime Minister has never before had the responsibility before Parliament for the security organisation. It was vested in his Attorney-General, by the former Labor Prime Minister,  Mr Chifley,  when he established ASIO on March 16, 1949.  Sir Robert  (then  Mr) Menzies  continued the practice in his memorandum to the new Director-General, Brigadier Spry, on July 6, 1950. 
What both Prime Ministers instructed their security chiefs was that in matters affecting total government policy they had direct access to the Prime Minister. On other matters they were to liaise with the Ministers of the various departments but only in areas affecting the operation of their departments as they pertained to security matters likely to be detrimental to the interests of the Commonwealth. 
The point we have been trying to emphasise is that whilst under these proposals the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  will take on this power over ASIO there will be no one else in this country who will be able to question his decisions or prerogatives. The same thing applies to the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Bill. I submit these are real dangers in such a course of action for the protection of individual rights in this country. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, we are considering this legislation for the second time because of the incompetence and the dishonesty of the Whitlam Government. I say incompetence because in less than 3 years - 
Opposition supporters- Stand up! Stand on top of the desk! 
-The Minister still has not commented on sub-clause (2) of clause 13, which is in its own way even more important than the other 2 sub-clauses in that it is basically inconsistent with the provisions of clause 8. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can he say what funds have been channelled, from overseas sources, into petroleum exploration since the reduction of the variable deposit rule. 
-There are a few remarks I want to make about clause 56. It provides for the consideration of complaints against travel agents or travel agency managers.The board also may investigate an agent or a manager of its own volition. In subclause (2) (b) is the provision that if the complainant is someone other than the Registrar a prescribed amount' has to be deposited with the Registrar. If the board rejects this complaint the amount of the deposit is said to be forfeited. I suggest that the Bill should ensure that travel agents do not have to bear the legal costs of defending a complaint later rejected by the Board. 
The Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  has mentioned that there are certain provisions for this but I am not sure that they are really adequate. I would like to give an example. In New South Wales recently there was a complaint against a travel agency known as Harvey World Travel. The Travel Agents Registration 
Board of New South Wales heard the case over several weeks. Although the case was won by Harvey World Travel that firm had to meet legal costs of over $2,000. 
It seems iniquitous, to say the least, that such costs should be incurred regardless of the outcome of the inquiry undertaken by the Board. After all, the Bill is supposed to be concerned with consumer protection but I could well imagine, under certain circumstances, that there is also a need for the Bill to give reasonable protection to the agencies themselves. Furthermore, the Bill does not specify any use to which the deposits may be put. Perhaps the Minister for Tourism and Recreation could explain to us what he is going to do with the deposits from some 1 500-odd agencies. Presumably the Board could order that the deposit by used to defray costs of legal representation in cases where a complaint against a travel agency is dismissed. At least this would be some means by which we could protect agents against large legal fees accruing in cases where they are found to be innocent parties. Therefore the Bill could include a clause which would cover people under those circumstances. 
I have no objection to the concept of a fidelity fund in principle. In fact it is a perfectly natural procedure which is adopted in many professional organisations today. Clause 87 provides in addition to that that levies may also be collected for other purposes relevant to this section where necessary. However, the Bill does not specify how these levies are to be imposed. I suggest to the Minister for Tourism and Recreation that as a means of avoiding an undue burden being placed on smaller agencies it would be preferable for this levy to be based on agency turnover. This is a very important point because there is a tremendous variation within the industry between those at the top and those at the bottom. I think it is quite unfair to apply an annual levy to all agencies irrespective of the size of their annual turnover. Certainly the smaller agencies within the industry would find some difficulty in meeting these provisions. 
Although I have been prevented by the Government from speaking during the second reading debate on the Travel Agents Bill 1975, 1 wish to address some general remarks to Part 1. Firstly, I compliment the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  on the initiation of this legislation and in particular the manner in which he has gone out of his way to consider both - 
Yes, clause 1 of Part 1. The Minister has gone out of his way to discuss with the industry and with members on both sides of this House the various aspects of this legislation with the object of getting the best possible legislation on the statute books. Nevertheless, in the course of the debate in the Committee stage I will be making various suggestions in relation to the tightening up of certain clauses of the Bill because we are dealing with an industry which can best be called a growth industry in every sense of the term. At least 1500 agencies are known to exist in Australia. As has been pointed out already so eloquently by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  the history of certain persons and companies which were in this industry have certainly not been to the overall benefit of their clients or to the Australian travel industry at large. 
Australia has one of the highest rates of overseas travel  per capita  in the entire Western world. This is to be expected. Many young Australians regard it as part of their normal activity to travel overseas, particularly to Europe, to see from where their parents, their grandparents or their ancestors originally came. That tendency must be encouraged. Nevertheless it is also very important that young Australians in particular should be given every opportunity to see more of their own country. I am afraid that this is an area in which incentive is lacking at present because the costs of domestic travel are going so high that it is becoming more and more difficult for the average Australian on a decent average income to be able to take his family for a reasonable distance around Australia. This has resulted unfortunately in a tendency for so many of the Australian people to conclude that the nation begins in Adelaide and ends in Brisbane and that there is not very much on the other side. 
We have a huge continent. If we are to break away from the syndrome of developing only in our major city areas and around the eastern coastal fringe it is essential that more Australians be given every opportunity to travel to the west in particular and to northern Australia, the Northern Territory and northern Queensland. At present the opportunities do not exist. Put in quite simple mathematical terms, it is cheaper now to take a family for a visit to Noumea than it is to go to northern Queensland. Whilst that type of situation is allowed to persist- I might add that it has been created by the incredible inflationary pressures which are being brought to bear upon this nation in the last few years as a result of the Government's mismanagement of the economy- it will be very difficult indeed for any government to overcome this fundamental problem unless we can get this country's economy once again on a reasonable level. 
Another problem which we are facing in terms of international travel is that the International Air Transport Association regulations are being bent, to put it quite mildly, by many companies in a deliberate attempt to overcome international agreements and to grasp a larger section of the market. Unfortunately there are people in high places within Australia, as has been pointed out so aptly by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who are also prepared to bend the regulations to achieve their own ends. This has resulted in many not needing to buy overseas travel tickets but being given tickets for services rendered. 
I wish to add my voice to the very real complaint which has just been made by my friend the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and my colleague the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  In relation to clause 8 (4) the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  pointed out in one of his amendments that he proposed to have 7  deputy  members. Unlike the rest of the text, however, he has not gone into detail to explain to the Committee precisely on what basis the 7 members are to be appointed. I would hope, and I know that the Australian Federation of Travel Agents would join me, since its members are, after all, the travel industry, that it would be in a position to have some say as to who are to represent it on the board. 
I trunk it is also worth pointing out to the Committee that a board of a mere 3 people is most uncharacteristic of the size of the boards, commissions of inquiry, etc., which have been the hallmark of this present administration for some 3 years. Perhaps the Minister for Tourism and Recreation could advise us why he believes the industry which is extremely diverse and has something like 1500 registered agencies, should be in a position where it is unable to co-ordinate except through a miniscule organisation, a board of a mere 3 people. I also wish to point out, and I emphasise this, that Australia is a huge country and every State has its unique difficulties in most fields, and certainly tourism is one of them. I would have thought that if a board of this type were to be truly effective there would be considerable advantage to have on it a professional member of the industry representing each of the States. I agree with the Minister that if these people cannot attend, there is a case for  deputy  members to take their places. But I have considerable doubts as to whether or not a committee of three, all of whom as the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  has pointed out are to be elected by the Government, is in any sense fair to the industry itself. The Minister should not want to surround himself unduly with sycophants. Surely the Minister should have a cross-fertilisation of ideas from all sections of the industry. Consequently I seriously question for the benefit of the Minister whether such a small board, and on the basis which he proposes to appoint it, would be an adequate supervising body for the industry. 
-I would like to comment on the remarks made by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr 
Stewart). I can see a slight inconsistency in the proposal to have 3 members, one of whom will be a lawyer, another will be a member of the Public Service and the third is defined in a somewhat amorphous manner as being someone with experience of the industry. From what the Minister just said I cannot help but conclude that the only person who will be transferable will be the third person, because there is no provision for the term  'deputy  members' to replace the  chairman,  a lawyer, or to the second person, who will be a public servant. If it applies to only one person I question seriously whether the exercise is worth while. I think it would be much better to have a broader based board with one representative from each State, on the board or any other wider formula. I do not believe that a board of 3 would work. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 9. 
a member of the Board, other than the deputy chairman, shall be paid such allowances as prescribed. 
This section has effect to the  Remuneration Tribunals Act  1973-1974. 
-I also have some confusions regarding clause 1 1 (2). I take it that the Minister for Tourism and Recreation would confirm that the reason he has formulated clause 11 in this way is that if the  Deputy Chairman  is to be a public servant under the Public Service Act the Minister has no power of dismissal. But presumably if the  Deputy Chairman  did conduct himself in a manner not befitting his position or because of some physical or mental incapacity, he could be removed by the Secretary of the Department. 
-I thank the Minister. I also refer to the earlier point made by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  that there does not appear to be any basis for appeal under clause 13. Perhaps the Minister could explain that. I am particularly concerned about clause 13(2) which appears to be somewhat inconsistent with what was earlier said in relation to clause 8. If the third member of this Board is to be someone who is experienced in the travel agency business there is surely every reason to presume that unless he is a retired person, which he cannot be because if he is over 65 years of age he cannot serve, the only people who will be properly qualified to serve on this Board would be practising travel agents. But according to subclause (2) such people are definitely removed from their capacity to sit on this Board. Perhaps the Minister could elucidate that point to the Committee. 
-I have a small question seeking elucidation. For perfectly natural reasons the Minister for Tourism and 
Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  has had considerable discussions with the Australian Federation of Travel Agents. Can the Minister explain to us whether travel agents who are not members of AFTA are to be required to abide by AFTA conditions in relation to accommodation and so forth? 
-I have some concern about clause 34 and in particular about the fact that there is no provision for the purchasing public to be in any sense involved in putting before the Board evidence as to whether a person or organisation is suitable to be permitted to establish an agency. Perhaps the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  has given some thought to this but I think he should consider the Trade Practices Act. There is an interesting comparison here. A provision of the Trade Practices Act could well be utilised in this piece of legislation. For example in parts of the Trade Practices Act there are certain omissions. For example in clause 34 of this Bill objections may be lodged by the Registrar against the granting of an application by the Board as outlined in clause 33. However, the Bill does not allow other persons or organisations to object to the establishment of an agency. On the other hand the Trade Practices Act makes provision for the submission from applicants and from other persons other than the applicant to be considered by the Trade Practices Commission when deciding whether or not to issue an authorisation. This is relevant to section 90 of the Trade Practices Act. Perhaps the Minister could consider that. I think it is not unfair for an industry such as the travel agents industry which is totally dependent on the market place to be in a position where the market place is able to make a judgment of the industry's efficiency and capacity. 
-In this debate tonight we have heard little more than the sound of an empty barrel from the Opposition. I, regrettably, will not be speaking about the economy on this occasion because I wish this House to appreciate the fact that the future of our country depends as much on our international standing and our defensive capacity as it does on the health of the Australian economy. The security and integrity of Australia are of prime concern to our Government, and this point was amply demonstrated yesterday in the Governor-General's speech which stated that the Government's foreign policy will reflect a greater self-reliance and willingness to develop friendly and co-operative relations with all countries. 
It is a regrettable fact that during the last 3 years, as Australia has gone down the slippery slide towards economic catastrophe, on the international level our position has shown a similar deterioration. While we have the difficulty at home of straightening out the economic mess we also have the equal responsibility of restoring Australia internationally to a position where we are respected, where the countries with which we have alliances appreciate that we are prepared to pull our weight while at the same time we must continue to have the capacity and the determination to express Australia's point of view and Australia's interest above all else in the appropriate international forums. 
Since the last election there have been a number of most important international events of which this House should be aware and which must be taken into account in the formulation of our foreign policy in the future. The most relevant, of course, are recent events in Angola where we have seen pro-Communist forces reach the stage where total victory is within their grasp. One of the reasons why this has occurred is because the United States of America is facing a major division between the new assertiveness of Congress on foreign policy questions and the responsibility of the  President.  Whereas  Dr Kissinger,  the Secretary of State, and the  President  wished to continue military assistance to pro- Western forces in Angola, Congress has not been prepared to support them. 
What Australia and the allies of the United States must face is a twofold problem. Firstly, the failure of America's policy in Vietnam has resulted in the United States Congress and the American people not being prepared to involve themselves in overseas adventures unless it can be conclusively shown that the fundamental interests of the United States are at stake. This was given very real expression in the Nixon doc-' trine or, as others prefer to call it, the Guam doctrine, which simply states that unless a country is prepared to help itself it cannot expect the people of the United States to pull its chestnuts out of the fire. 
Regrettably, for too long, and certainly in the last 3 years, the people of Australia have been allowed to believe that, while we can insult and denigrate our allies, at the same time we can expect them to give their youth, their blood and their treasure in our defence. Such a view cannot be upheld in today's world. Regrettably, it is every nation for itself, and every nation is primarily responsible for its own affairs. 
In the last 3 years we have seen a Government, fortunately now the Opposition, embark upon a direct policy to break down Australia's defences under the glorious guise of building bridges into the Third World. It took the view that alliances were  passe  and that it does not matter about friends of the past. It said: 'Let us be independent. Let us talk about zones of peace.' Glorious concepts! Of course we all want peace, but what we do not know is how to achieve it. One thing is clear. We do not achieve peace by surrender. What we are faced with today is that there has been for too long an unnecessary degree of dependence upon the United States. The people of the United States are no longer prepared to carry us and the rest of the Western world on their backs. Who can blame them for that? It is because nations like Australia for too long- this certainly applies also to Western Europe- have not been prepared to face the reality that we alone are responsible for our own defence. When you enter into an alliance it is supposed to be of equal partners. All sign the terms of the agreement which normally, as in the case of ANZUS- an agreement between the United States, Australia and New Zealand- require that the parties will work together to maintain peace and to protect each other in the event of war. But for so long we have driven on a one way street and have asked: 'What are the Americans going to do for us?' The situation has now changed. Today, as never before, the new Australian Government is faced by the fact that because of the run down in our defences we now have to cover in a very short time and at great expense projects which should have been carried out in the last 3 years. 
Let us examine, in a general over view, the situation internationally. The Western alliance based on the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation is showing very real signs of decay. NATO exists, in quite fundamental terms, only because the United States regards it as being a forward line of defence. If it were not for the 300 000-odd American troops in Europe one would have to doubt the will and the fortitude of some of the nations of Europe to pull together to look after their own collective security. 
Recent events in Angola are important for the very important reason that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics has shown for the first time that it now has the military and the strategic capacity to move large quantities of arms, munitions and troops- in this case Cubans- to virtually any part of the world. In the last decade, while the United States has continued to maintain a parity at the atomic and hydrogen level, at the conventional military level the Soviet Union has moved into a position of quantitative superiority. Whereas in the last two Middle East wars the USSR had to withdraw equipment including tanks and planes from its own units in Eastern Europe to support the Arabs, it has now reached the point where it can take on a massive resupply operation to a country like Angola thousands of miles away from its ports in the Black Sea and do it effectively. If Russia can succeed in Angola, it has the capability of doing likewise in our own part of the world should it be in the Russians ' interests. 
I am not standing here simply hitting the Communist can. I am merely stating a fact that the Soviet Union today does give the impression to the world of a nation which is determined whereever possible, whenever the opportunities arise, to make use of them to turn a situation to its own advantage and therefore to increase its own international prestige and influence. It is worth keeping in mind that since 1945 the area of the world that has gone under direct or indirect Russian influence is very considerable indeed. In fact it is now nearly 50 per cent of the world's population. Members of" the Opposition can guffaw and laugh about those statistics, but they are real. I want to hear from the Opposition at some stage in the future- we certainly did not hear it in the last 3-odd years- a reasonable analysis of precisely where Australia is to stand in the international spectrum of today. In a speech made yesterday by the Governor-General the point was emphasised, and quite rightly so, that the primary area of Australia's responsibility and interest must lie in South East Asia. This is natural and is to be expected. After all, our capacity to be a power on the world stage is limited. The Leader of the Opposition tried to achieve the impossible when he led the fateful government of Australia- fateful', I said, not 'faithful'. Unlike the great dreamers we do not propose to try to carry mankind on some great wave of discovery to a new world of enlightenment based on socialism to an environment in which men and women lack the capacity to make decisions for themselves according to their inclinations and in their own way. 
In South East Asia, we have seen in recent months a catastrophe take place near our own borders, a mere 300 miles from Australia in 
Timor. This Government inherited a most unfortunate situation. It was created not by us but by the former Government and by the former Prime Minister, who was prepared to go to Jakarta and say to President Suharto: 'Do not worry, old boy. We understand your interests. We will not make any trouble if you take over Timor'. That is the same government which months before at the United Nations, in this House and throughout the nation was telling the world that selfdetermination is the be-all and end-all of international life. 
It was. 
-As a matter of fact, a document exists. 
-I will discuss the matter with you at some future time. We inherited in the case of Timor a 'no win' situation, for once a government such as Indonesia makes a decision, naturally it wishes to follow it through, especially when they assessed, as they did quite rightly, that whereas certain private members of the former Government were prepared to go against the policy of their Government publicly and in this House, this would not be the case when it came down to realities. That is precisely what has happened. We did not appreciate, nor condone, what Indonesia has done. We still want an act of self determination but at the same time there is a limit to what a nation like Australia can do in a situation like this, especially when we have no  locus standi.  In that situation, action should have been taken before the uprising against the Portuguese. While Portugal still had the responsibility and a presence in Timor Australia should have gone to the Portuguese and said: 'We are prepared to help you. We are prepared to act in a mediating role with the Indonesians'. What did we hear from the Government in those days? Barren silence, devoid of resolution or humanity. Now of course we hear various muted voices in the distance bemoaning what we see happening in Timor today but it is too late. The situation in South-East Asia is, to say the least, tense. Events following the fall of Vietnam indicate that the North Vietnamese are still interested in carving out for themselves their own zone of influence in Indo-China and Thailand. 
Of course we must not forget China. In our policy announced yesterday- I take great pleasure in this- it was stated that we will improve and further develop bilateral relations with China. It is obvious that the future of SouthEast Asia is going to depend principally on the relationship between Australia, Japan, China, India and, to a lesser extent, the United States and the Union of the Soviet Socialist Republics. Within that orbit there will continue to be potential for a growing conflict of interest between the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and China. What we have seen in Angola, and China's reaction to Russia's involvement in Angola, is symptomatic of the fact that wherever one of them moves there is going to be a counter reaction from the other. But whereas China's capacity to undertake any activity in Africa is obviously limited by geographical factors, that is certainly not the situation in South-East Asia. I believe quite firmly that if the Soviet Union increases its influence in South-East Asia, through North Vietnam for example, a point will be reached where China might well have to consider taking action in its own interest. The one thing that China is terrified of today is that it is going to be surrounded by the Soviet Union, its growing navy and its satellites. Consequently, policies adopted by North Vietnam and North Korea and the long term future development of Japan, is of fundamental importance not only to China but also to the entire South-East Asian region, in fact to the world. 
The point I started with is again worth making. Australia today has to be prepared to stand on its own feet. We have alliances but those alliances are only as good as the quality of effort made by all signatories to ensure their effectiveness. No international agreement ever signed has been carried out unless there has been the will to succeed on all sides. We have in Australia a great future and despite the enormous domestic problems we have the capacity to be a great nation, in this part of the world in particular. Our wealth, and the capacity of our people must be harnessed to help our neighbours also to improve their capacity to give greater opportunities to their people. It is of no use just talking about fighting Communism with guns. Those views are  passe.  They have failed in the past. I believe they will fail in the future. The only way to face communism on the ground is to fight an ideology which spawns on hunger and despair. When people have employment and opportunities for advancement people are not looking for ideologies which are going to give them the rainbow of the future. That is where Australia has a role to play. We must develop a deeper understanding of all the countries of South East Asia and regardless of what their political ideologies  may be. They and we happen to share this world's small surface and, whether we like it or not, we are a Western outpost on the edge of Asia. Geography and history have placed us in that role but we have tremendous opportunities which this Government will certainly not let pass. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (9.14)-The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  has given us the benefit of his knowledge of the military situation in the world. He referred to the situation in Timor having been inherited from the Labor Government but I feel quite sure that the great majority of Australians would prefer that to what the Labor Government inherited from the previous Government, namely, the situation in Vietnam, a war in which hundreds of Australians and many thousands of Americans were killed. No one has really defined what that war was all about. As a matter of fact, most Americans and most Australians were very pleased to withdraw from that war. Apart from making that point, I would not like to match my knowledge on the world military situation with that of the honourable member. I am more anxious to reply to some of the remarks made by the Governor-General in his Speech. Firstly, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on your elevation to that position and to the position of  Chairman  of Committees. I congratulate also  Mr Snedden  on his appointment as  Mr Speaker.  On many occasions when  Mr Snedden  was Leader of the Opposition I had cause to appreciate his courtesy and consideration for backbench members and I am quite sure that while both you and he occupy your positions in the chair we can expect the same consideration. 
In opening this first session of Her Majesty's Thirtieth Parliament the Governor-General commenced his Speech by reminding the nation that the Thirtieth Parliament was being opened at a time when large areas of New South Wales and Queensland were being devastated by severe flooding. He expressed the Government's deepest concern for the plight of the people in those areas and the terrible experiences they were undergoing. He said that the Government was consulting with the States in taking action to ensure that all proper assistance was made available in flood areas. He said also that the Natural Disasters Organisation was working smoothly. My electorate is suffering most from this devastation. In fact this is the third natural disaster in my electorate in 2 years. In 1 974 we had tragic floods followed by very severe bushfires. Now once again the electorate is faced with heavy  flooding. It was very gratifying to read the Governor-General's statement and indeed to learn that the Natural Disasters Organisation was working smoothly. I have checked with most of the areas affected by flooding and the people there have informed me that all aid which has been sought, such as aeroplanes and helicopters, has been provided. These devastating disasters are causing the loss of thousands of cattle and much damage to property. We have been very fortunate that there has not been any loss of life as there was in the previous bushfires. 
The flooding starts at the top of my electorate at Collarenebri and the water travels a distance of about 750 road miles entering the Murray River at Wentworth. This distance would be much further by river. These flood waters pass through the towns of Walgett, Collarenebri, Bourke, Wilcannia and Menindee before they reach the Murray River at Wentworth. I have been informed that the flood situation at Collarenebri is the most serious in this century. This would indicate a most serious situation for the townships further south if this water entered low level rivers. Unfortunately that is not the case. Already rivers are swollen and there have been many local storms and local floodings. The situation at Walgett is very grim. The people believe that the levee banks at Walgett will keep the water out. However they expect many thousands of cattle to be lost and many properties to be flooded. The same situation applies at Brewarrina and Bourke where they have a very substantial levee bank. Should the water rise to the top of the levee bank there they will be able to build it up higher. 
Moving further on from Bourke we find a very serious situation. The Paroo River is already flooding, and if that water happens to meet up with the water coming down the Darling River there could be a very serious situation between Bourke and Wilcannia. For some 6 weeks or more now through local flooding about 13 stations in that area have been isolated. The situation at Wilcannia could be very serious. Moving further down, we have, fortunately, the buffer of the Menindee Lakes scheme. Already water is being let out of the Menindee Lakes scheme and this will save the situation at Menindee and further downstream. At Wentworth flooding from the Darling River is never serious because there is a big downgrade from the Darling River into the Murray River. Most of the flooding at Wentworth comes from the Murray River and not from the Darling. 
There is no doubt that, in spite of all the civil defence assistance there will be a terrible loss of stock and as much property damage, as there was during the last flood. This flood is expected to be just as severe as the last flood. No doubt many lives will be in danger. It is very gratifying to learn not only from the Governor-General's Speech but also from the people in that area that the Natural Disasters Organisation is working smoothly. The provision of helicopters will save a lot of lives and will prevent much damage to property. I want to refer to examples of bravery on the part of the air crew and people being rescued. I know that a woman and 2 children had to spend the night between the ceiling and the roof of a house. The young girl told me that the most terrifying experience of the lot was not getting out of the flooded house up into the ceiling but removing a sheet of iron from the roof and getting onto the helicopter. 
It is gratifying to know that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the head of the Natural Disasters Organisation visited these parts of my electorate. Unfortunately the visit attracted some publicity. I received a telegram from a man who fives near Wanaaring, which is between Bourke and Tibooburra. He asked me to remind the Prime Minister that the Western division of New South Wales does not end in the MoreeWalgett area and that he is ploughing around underneath his house in many feet of water. I have tried to explain to him that the aid comes from the State civil defence organisation which must ask the Federal Government for assistance. I would have been much more grateful had the Prime Minister informed me that he would be visiting my electorate. This Government has asked the people of Australia for co-operation, but co-operation is a two-way matter. I believe that when the Prime Minister goes into an electorate, particularly at a time like this where the member concerned has studied the situation, the member should be notified and the Prime Minister should take some advice from the member who has already been in contact with the people. It is false economy to have the Prime Minister by-pass members, who are paid by the taxpayers, and not to ask their opinions on occasions like this. 
Not only should the Prime Minister advise the member and take him along but some provision should be made for the member himself to spend some time there in the electorate. During the last floods I spent all my charter plane allowance on one week touring the flooded areas. Some extra provision should be made at times like this for the member to use a charter plane to get around, see the situation for himself and act on behalf of the people. It is a great comfort at those times for people to have their Federal member there. The people in the back blocks feel isolated at any time but at a time of emergency like this they derive great satisfaction from having their member there and he can help them in lots of ways. They have many problems when they cannot get out of town and see their relations and when they are bogged down there. I remember on the occasion of the last floods I myself was marooned at Walgett, protected only by the levee bank. We had borrowed a civil defence aeroplane to have a look over the area. There was a 40-mile front of water coming down towards the levee bank. From the plane I could see my caravan with my wife and little child in it. It was a very frightening experience. The first thing I wanted to do was get out of the place. We moved from the caravan park up into the town proper. It is certainly a big advantage to the people to have their member in the area at such times, and every assistance should be given to him. 
The Governor-General also referred to the mining industry and the important contribution it made to the economic revival and the expansion of job opportunities. He called it a return to resources development. I would like to have some concrete evidence to show that the Government has any real intention of doing anything in this matter. I do not think members of the present Government had a very good record, either in Government or in Opposition, in the development of our mineral resources. Many speakers before me have touched on the mining industry. Most of them rose in defence of the multi-national mining companies. One would think that the Australian mining companies had no part to play in the development of our mineral resources. I believe that this has been a wrong attitude adopted by the Liberal-National Country Party coalition both in Government and in Opposition. 
One should consider the great contribution made by Broken Hill South Ltd at Cobar. That mine was started up again and at present is going through a very lean period. Yet around that area is great mineral wealth. One would hope that some assistance would be forthcoming not only to keep the miners in Cobar but also to train more miners because the long range forecast is that Australia will be very short of miners in the not too distant future. Let us take the case of a smaller mining company at Broken Hill, Minerals Mining and Metallurgy. I have touched on this subject before. It is true that after Broken Hill South walked out of this mine the smaller company with the unionists of Broken Hill- the miners themselves- appealed to the Government for assistance to open this mine. The then Liberal-Country Party government did not think that the venture was worth while. That company, which has returned many millions of dollars in profits and has paid many millions of dollars in taxation, is still working. I turn now to the North Broken Hill Ltd mine and to the amounts of tax paid on royalties. It is fortunate that that company had enough profit left to search for and develop a new lode. Fortunately a new lode was found and there has been a new lease of life on that end of the line of lode. 
In the 12 years to June 1974 the Broken Hill mines paid by way of federal income tax, payroll tax and tax on royalties to the New South Wales Government $260.539m. This is a large amount of money and in my opinion it is not too much to ask that some of this be put back, not for the benefit of multinational mining companies or other companies but for the people who provided the wealth. I refer to the miners. They have a very short life. It is very hard work and they are forced to retire at 62 years of age, although many of them are burnt out and cannot work on contract long before they reach that age. It is nice for them to know that there is some work there for their sons. 
There is a big lode there called the western mineralisation and we believe that had the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill been passed instead of being blocked by the Opposition last year the previous Government would have provided money for the development of the western mineralisation. I ask this Government to have a good look at the situation at Broken Hill and the western mineralisation, at income tax and State royalties and to ensure that the line of lode is not shortened as companies have a tendency to pick the best ore and leave a lot of good ore behind because of the taxation paid on royalties. Some concession should be granted, some regulation made or some agreement reached to ensure that a lot of this low grade ore is taken with the good ore. 
I hope that this Government is sincere in its development of our mineral resources and will make sure that these big companies are not encouraged to leave behind this ore. I hope also that our Australian companies are given every encouragement. I am sorry that I cannot support the motion before the Chair because I, like my colleagues, believe that the Governor-General was wrong in dismissing the Labor Government from office. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the recent human tragedy in Guatemala, can the Minister advise the House what assistance the Government proposes to give to alleviate the suffering of the victims? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the success of Russian and Cuban backed forces in Angola and the recognition of the new regime by various Western governments, will the Minister advise the House when the Australian Government will accord recognition to the new regime in Angola? 
-I ask the Prime Minister a question. Has any request been made to him regarding crown privilege with respect to a matter currently being heard before a Queanbeyan magistrate? 
I take great pleasure on this occasion in being able to speak on a subject which for obvious reasons has achieved a considerable degree of unanimity on both sides of this chamber. Whether one wishes to be the father or the midwife, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  so eloquently pointed out, no doubt depends to some extent on the legality of the union. The honourable gentleman also said that in his view the position adopted by the present Government in relation to the activities of his Government with regard to Japan was less than straightforward. May I point out that while we may all agree on the obvious need to maintain a close and growing relationship with Japan, the philosophical approach adopted by various Ministers in his Government, in particular the former Minister for Minerals and Energy, leaves one to conclude beyond doubt that there could be no Japanese businessman today who had any dealings with Australia, in particular with the Australian Government, during the last 3 years who did not return to his land confused, on occasions berated, and with no doubt in his mind that the close relations which should have developed between our 2 nations had suffered fundamentally during those 3 years. 
The Australia-Japan Foundation is another guidestone on the road to better relations between our 2 countries. Nevertheless the substance of our relationship is and will remain economic. This is easily illustrated by a few basic statistics. Japan is Australia's largest export market and our third largest source of imports after the United States of America and the United Kingdom. In 1974-75, Australian exports to Japan reached $2,40 lm or 28 per cent of our total exports while imports from Japan had a value of $1,420 or 18 per cent of total imports. Thus in terms of the value of 2-way trade, Japan is Australia's most important trading partner. Conversely, Australia is Japan's second biggest trading partner in terms of total 2-way trade. Japan's imports from Australia in 1974, represented 6.5 per cent of its total imports while 3.5 per cent of Japan's exports were sent to Australia. We remain a major supplier to Japan of a wide range of industrial raw materials and agricultural products. We are currently Japan's main source of iron ore, coking coal, alumina, bauxite, wool, sugar and meat. 
Nevertheless the depth of the relationship must also develop on the human level. It is worth putting on record that in the last 30 years, since the conclusion of the Second World War, Australia's attitude to Japan has improved markedly. From a state of complete and utter distrust when no Japanese representative of that Government could visit Australia without some fear and trepidation, we have developed to the point where it remains in the national interests of both countries that our officials and our peoples be encouraged to come closer together so that we can not only overcome the sad legacy of the past but also together, and only together, build in South East Asia and in the Pacific a region of peace and security for us all.' I believe we have much to learn and the Japanese have much to teach us apart from their capacity to unite, to work together, to overcome their own common problems and by so doing improve the common good. 
In the commercial field, for example, it is worth taking account of the famous Keidanren which is a federation of economic organisations. We do not have an equivalent in Australian but it is worth noting that this organisation, which is the Japanese Industrial Structure Council, is made up of some 20 committees which cover all facets and sections of the Japanese economic community. The Ministry of International Trade and Industry, which is equivalent more or less to the Australian Department of Overseas Trade with commerce and industry thrown in for good measure, never enters into international negotiations without the full support and cooperation of the Keidanren and the relevant Japanese industrial committee. Unfortunately for far too long Australian industry has tended to divide itself between companies, to allow our markets to be dissected and the prices which should be paid for our commodities to suffer from the fact that we are divided in our approach to the purchaser. This is a matter of considerable importance because for obvious reasons advantages can be gained by both sides to a negotiation if the Australian coal industry, for example, is able within its own organisation to come to an agreed price and with the support of the Australian Government then go into a negotiating role. There have been examples in the past of representatives of Japanese companies wishing to import Australian commodities going to every producer in an industry on the wise principle of dividing and ruling with the obvious result that Australia has often lost from those negotiations. I believe the Government's policy today makes it quite clear that in future, along with Australian industry, we will work to ensure that we get a fair price for our commodities, while at the same time guaranteeing the Japanese and the other major importers of our commodities that they will have adequate access to Australia 's resources. 
The Leader of the Opposition made a few references to areas in which there have been some difficulties with Japan in recent years. Of course one of the most notable of these is the question of Japanese beef imports. The Japanese Government imposed a ban on beef imports in January 1974 and that seriously affected Australia's rural industry. The ban was not finally relaxed until June 1975 after Australia had used considerable diplomatic pressure on the Japanese to have the situation rectified. 
-It is still not entirely relaxed. I thank the honourable member for that information. Australian tariff and quota policy is a matter which will probably always be a difficulty especially in dealings with an importer of raw materials who wishes to export to Australia the finished product. This field is both complex and difficult but it is an area which must be mentioned in this context. 
Another subject which must be considered is our prices policy of exports to Japan. In 1974, in the wake of massive increases in the price of oil, the Department of Minerals and Energy tried directly to intervene in the process of negotiating prices for various Australian raw materials. Unfortunately it went too far and caused much confusion both in Australian and Japan. Another area of potential political contention is the question of foreign investment. By 1974 Australia accounted for only one per cent of Japan's nonferrous metals investment abroad, compared with over a third in 1970 and nearly the same amount in 1971. Japan has expressed on many occasions its desire to become involved in various projects in Australia. It is prepared to do this on the basis of majority Australian ownership. All it asks is a degree of participation as it believes, not without reason, that through participation it is in a better position to guarantee its sources of raw material. There is no doubt that the possibility of Japan equity in some of these projects, notably coal mines in Queensland and iron ore projects in Western Australia, must be to Australia's long term benefit, for today, as in the past, Australia suffers from real limitations in relation to our capacity to produce enough domestic capital to meet the enormous needs which we have in developing our significant resources. Unlike the previous government, we do not espouse a policy of leaving our resources in the ground. We believe they are there for the good of Australia, for all Australians and certainly for those who come after us. For example there is considerable doubt as to how long the world's needs for uranium will exist. Many people presume that it will not be after the year 2000. Therefore there is a case for the development of Australia's uranium resources as soon as possible because there is nothing so pointless as having a resource in the ground of little value. 
The future of Australian and Japanese relations are fundamental to Australia's economic development. A recent study by the Japanese Economic Research Centre forecast an annual growth rate of some 7 per cent. Many economists believe that is somewhat optimistic. Whether we accept a base of five or six per cent, the fact remains that this represents a significant expansion of the Japanese economy and hence, for countries like Australia, enormous opportunities for our exports. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  on his return from Japan pointed out several areas in which Australian exporters could expect considerable expansion in their trade with Japan. I should enumerate some of them. The first is natural gas from Australia's North West Shelf. Enormous resources of finance will be required before that gets off the ground, but it can and must be done. The second is uranium, for which Japan will be a major market by 1985. I mention also coal and iron ore. Japan has been planning a 50 per cent increase in its steel production by 1980. Joint research and development of hydrogenation projects involving the conversion of coal to other forms of energy will also cost an enormous amount for research and technology progress. But together Japan and Australia can work to achieve these most important goals. Finally I mention our long term products, wool and wheat, which will always require the maintenance of a substantial export market. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister also envisaged a new phase in Australia's trading relationship with Japan which we hope will be enshrined in a revised Japan-Australia trade agreement to be concluded in due course. The diplomatic symbol of this new relationship is the treaty of friendship and co-operation which was initiated by the previous Government, but it found to its cost that it was easier to talk in glib terms about such a treaty without examining in detail its full ramifications. The negotiations which have taken place between Australia and Japan for over 2 years are symptomatic of the fact that a treaty of substance between 2 major trading nations is not an easy thing to achieve. It is not just a question of sewing words together and hoping that they are sufficiently clear that future generations will not try to read into them what was not meant to be there in the first place. Our agreement must be one in which both parties are aware of the dotting of every 'i' and the crossing of every 't'. 
Because of the linguistic difficulties between Japan and Australia it is even more important that our agreement be fully understood by all parties before it is signed. For that reason I applaud the fact that neither Government has been prepared to force Australia into an agreement of such enormous importance until we are fully convinced that Australia and Japan will both benefit in their own way from the conclusion of such a treaty. It may well be that Australia- Japan relations are about to enter upon the new phase, referred to by the Deputy Prime Minister. However, it is quite probable that there will be changes in the overall framework of the relationship between the 2 countries. Although we share common interests- we are both rich, industrialised, democratic and relatively, in the case of Australia, underdeveloped- we will have our disagreements. We will not necessarily see events in our part of the world from the same viewpoint. The relationship which Japan will build between the Soviet Union on the one hand and China on the other could cause tensions. Australia must watch the position with great caution and make sure that our point of view is always made quite clear to the Japanese, because in the long term it will be upon Japan's economic shoulders that the ultimate development especially of South East Asia and the Pacific must depend. 
There are many nations in South East Asia today which suffered greatly from the Japanese during the Second World War and from what they see as her economic colonialism today. Japan does not hold in South East Asia a reputation as good as that of Australia. Therefore this is another facet to our relationship. We must encourage Japan to change its commercial attitudes so that its position in South East Asia will be enhanced. Through the acceptance of Japan's position in our part of the world Australia's interests will also be met. These are matters of considerable subtlety. They are very difficult problems to solve and they will require a considerable diplomatic effort on the part of Australia. 
I believe that the Foundation about which we are debating will remain as a living testimony of the work of men like our Australian Ambassador,  Mr Mick  Shann, the previous Japanese Ambassador to Australia,  Mr Yoshida  and the many other Japanese and Australians who are convinced that the overall development of our 2 countries will require that we pass from an entirely economic relationship to one of more human depth. Through this Foundation we must build a structure not dissimilar to the famous Churchill Fellowships which have helped so many Australians to travel and improve their understanding of other people, their problems and achievements. 
The Japanese are an island people. Island people are said to have some strange characteristics. For example, the British were said to believe that God must be an Anglo-Saxon. We know that God is neither an Anglo-Saxon nor Japanese. The similarities in the history and attitude adopted by both the British and Japanese deserve very serious examination. Many of us are the descendants of an island people and we now inhabit the largest island in the world. We need to show Australia to the Japanese as a nation which appreciates their problems and achievements but which expects in return to receive from the Japanese a similar effort to bring our 2 nations closer together. The bonds are significant in economic terms but they have a long way to go before they build up a substantive human element. 
Australians have done much in recent years. We had an inter-departmental committee on Japan, the Australian-Japan Business Cooperation Committee, the Pacific Basin Economic Council, the Australian- Japan Ministerial Committee, the Cultural Agreement and now the Australian-Japan Foundation. Australia has done its fair share to bring our 2 nations together. 
Let us make sure that in this Parliament the bipartisan spirit for the development of the relations between our 2 countries will grow even stronger in the years ahead. 
-I have pleasure in speaking in support of this motion moved by the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in this House yesterday. Having served on the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence in the previous Parliament, but regrettably being unable to do so on this occasion as I am also a member of another Parliamentary committee, I would like to make some remarks on the substance of this Committee and compare its great expectations with the work it has in fact performed. With regret I say that in the last Parliament, in my opinion this Committee was not a great success. There were a number of reasons for this. The  chairman  after some delay entered the Ministry. The Omega question which was passed to the Committee for consideration took an inordinate time to reach fruition. There were certain difficulties in the ranks of the Government as to what views it should adopt to the whole question of Omega, but finally, after considerable effort over some 3 years, the report was tabled in this House. I hope that with the effluxion of time the new Committee will not have to go through the same difficulties as did its predecessor. 
I am of the view that this Committee is probably one of the most important joint committees of this Parliament. It is essential that not only should the Australian people be aware and kept informed of the world around us and the circumstances, which change daily, but that the men and women who are elected to this Parliament with the fundamental responsibility of leading the Australian people and of setting a standard of excellence and an appreciaton of the problems which this nation must face, should ensure that this Committee has indeed a real role to perform. In saying that, I believe it is not sufficient that members should attend meetings and simply sit there as if in some debating club listening to a guest  speaker.  Regrettably this is one of the ways in which the time of many of the meetings was in fact spent. I submit that this Committee requires to go beyond that. 
The terms upon which it has been established make it quite clear that the Committee has every opportunity if it wishes to take them to cover subjects referred to it by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Government and the Parliament, and of course subjects which it may decide for itself. There is no doubt that the fields in which this new Committee should be concentrating its deliberations are prolific. It includes the whole question of Australia's relations with Indonesia, recent events in Timor, events in Africa, Australia's relations with Japan, which were the subject of a very excellent report a number of years ago. Above all, of course, consideration needs to be given to the whole question of defence. This subject will be covered by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil).  In the foreign affairs field Australia has perhaps always seen the future, at least since the Second World War, through less than rose tinted glasses. Threats will be made upon this nation because of our wealth, our geographical isolation and because of our small population- facts with which we have to live. The responsibility of this Parliament, and certainly of a committee of this Parliament, is to look ahead, to plan for the future, to see what should be done, and to make suggestions to this Parliament on how it believes various problems should be considered. 
Perhaps one of the greatest difficulties we are going to face- it is becoming a major international problem today- is resource utilisation and the distribution of the resources between the rich and the poor countries. The discussions which are currently taking place in the United Nations on the Law of the Sea represent only one facet of a mammoth problem of how, in a world the size of ours, with a burgeoning population in the less developed countries, it is possible to divide our wealth so that all humanity can gain a reasonable standard of living. 
Perhaps such concepts of idealism are somewhat out of place today. Nevertheless the fact remains that small countries in terms of population, such as Australia, cannot expect to hold complete sovereignty over a fairly substantial proportion of the world's known resources and reserves indefinitely. It is going to be difficult for us to readjust, but readjust we must, because if we fail to do so undoubtedly pressures are going to be brought upon us in the not so distant future to force Australia to reconsider the division of its resources for the benefit of others. I would suggest that not only must we be prepared for this situation but also we must make sure that in the years ahead we will be able to show the world that as a resource-rich country we are prepared to share and to play our full part in overcoming this very major problem. 
Some 30 years ago much was said about the world passing into a new phase of internationalism. It was said that national boundaries were out of date, that flags were out of date. Perhaps it was in this rather euphoric state that the United Nations was born. The United Nations was not born simply out of euphoria but out of a very real belief that unless nations were prepared to work together to solve their common difficulties and to appreciate the problems of each country, ultimately the world would head nowhere except towards future calamities and war. No government today can regard the future with equanimity- certainly no parliament of a democratic country such as Australia, with its enormous potential to give not only to its own people but also to the world and especially to South East Asia the area which is of such vital importance to the future of our own nation. 
It is for these reasons above all that I urge the members of this new Committee, when it is formed, to approach their work with a degree of urgency. I honestly believe that time is not on our side. We are not prepared, nor should we be, to listen to the dictates of others unless we are prepared to apply a true concept of sovereignty to stand up in the world 's forums to make our point of view heard, and above all to be sure we have right on our side. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is the Taxation Office increasing significantly the number of investigating staff. 
If so, (a) how much will this cost, (b) how many people are involved and (c) from where will they he recruited. 
-We have just heard two of the Opposition's leading exponents in the field of unemployment. Australia has a record rate of unemployment for which they alone in this chamber must accept the fundamental responsibility. While that rests in the unfortunate recent history of this nation, it is still the fundamental responsibility of this Government and of this Parliament to make sure not only that these problems of unemployment are solved but also that in solving them we apply adequate work tests and programs to ensure that those people who need employment will be given every assistance to gain it and those who wish to bludge on the community- to use the words of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)-  will not be assisted to do so. 
It is, in fact, symptomatic of the Opposition bankruptcy that the Government has been accused of allegedly fanning the fires of intolerance against the alleged dole bludgers, of being immoral for so doing and, in the words of the honourable member for Oxley of propounding that 'employment becomes the fault of the unemployed'. It is very easy to talk in glib terms about a state of life which is, undoubtedly, the worst calamity that can befall any person in this country. We believe the vast majority of our people are willing and able to work. It is because we have inherited a situation in which so many,- in fact some 300 000- are unable to obtain employment that we are forced to take these measures and debate this matter today in this chamber. 
The 4 changes to the unemployment benefit system which were outlined by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  both in January this year and again last week can be denned as follows: Firstly, the definition of 'suitable employment' is to be widened after a reasonable period of time; secondly, unemployment beneficiaries will be required to lodge income statements personally at Commonwealth Employment Service offices each fortnight; thirdly, unemployment benefits will not be paid to school leavers during the long vacation period; and fourthly, persons who become voluntarily unemployed will not be paid unemployment benefit for a period of 6 weeks after registration with the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
What has been totally ignored by the Opposition in this debate is the precise role of the Government in terms of supporting the unemployed members of the community. We believe that the Government has a responsibility to support those who, through no fault of their own, cannot provide support for themselves and for their dependants. This is the basis upon which all debate on this subject should be founded, not on arguments about questions of intolerance, immorality or definitions of an unemployed person. The new requirements we are initiating are not unjust or unduly harsh. The only substantial effect will be on those who are unwilling to work, and that is precisely the area in which we are directing our amendments. 
Since the economy is in recession, it is neither practicable nor possible to satisfy everyone's requests for specific employment. It is necessary, however, to offer jobs which actually exist, rather than those which may exist but at present are merely in the imagination of those who wish to have them. The reality of the economic situation requires that those receiving benefits must take work that they are capable of performing when it is offered to them. As the economy improves there is every expectation that , as a result of the Government's measures, skilled people will be helped through the CES to take jobs which are within their capacity and which utilise their skills fully. The honourable member for Oxley took exception to this and referred to a report which appeared recently in the  Courier-Mail  about a person who applied for a job in Brisbane. He took exception to the way this person was treated. Apparently, he did not turn up in shoes, a collar and a tie. What the honourable member failed to tell the House was that in this particular instance- I might add that the facts were given to the newspaper which, for its own reasons, decided not to publish the full story- the person was offered a job as a storeman in a major retail store in Brisbane and the requirements of this job were that he should wear shoes, a collar and a tie. 
To suggest that the Government will ask waterside workers or people in any other special classifications to dress for a type of employment for which they obviously are not fitted is an aberration, to say the least. 
What has also been ignored totally by the Opposition in this debate is the fact that for many years the Social Services Act has provided adequate means for appeal in any cases in which people feel that they have been wrongly treated by the CES. In order to remedy these specific cases, appeals have been going on for some years. We certainly will not do anything to limit in any way right to appeal. It is fundamental to our philosophy that individuals must have a final arbiter against decisions of the bureaucracy and the only way they can do that effectively is by appealing to tribunals to which applications for reconsideration of decisions may be made. In addition, section 124 of the Act provides for special benefits to be paid in cases of extreme hardship or of mental or physical disability, or because of domestic circumstances. This is a very elastic provision both for the Department of Social Security and for the Government to apply policy in order that those people who have a case and require assistance most certainly will receive it. 
We were told by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  of the vast number of appeals- some 62.6 per cent- that were upheld by the Department without reference to the Social Security Appeals Tribunal. He said that this indicated that there was hardly much point in going ahead with the exercise if so many people were to be passed on this basis. Let me say at this stage, for the benefit of the honourable gentleman, that in the last 3 years there has been a tendency for the appeal system to become so generous as to raise some doubt about it achieving its objectives because so many appeals were upheld and only 29.1 per cent were, in fact, dismissed. That point was brought forward in another place last week in answer to a question from a member of the Opposition. While we will continue to use the appellate system to protect the rights of the individual, we also will expect the Appeals Tribunal to be more realistic and effective in the task before it and not simply to pass people just because an appeal has been made. 
I now turn to the question of the work test itself, which is undoubtedly the centre of the problem as seen by the Opposition. The central criterion is the concept of reasonableness in the application of this work test. If someone genuinely wants to work, we believe that it is our responsibility to help that person find work. Furthermore, as individuals are responsible for thenown lives they should take the necessary steps to ensure that they have employment if available. For those who complain and worry about whether somebody with a specific qualification should have to take a position of a lower status in their area of training. I make the point that there are very few, if any, jobs available in Australia today which do not give to the person who is employed a higher return than the unemployment benefit. While we are not suggesting for a moment that an architect, which was the example given by the honourable member for Oxley, should be forced to go on the clean-up trucks, the principle which we are applying is that the architect, if he cannot be so employed, should be prepared to work as a draftsman. 
The same thing goes for the skilled tool maker. He should take a position as a fitter and turner if it is impossible to get an exact position related to his skill. The basic principle is that we want people to be employed. There are vacancies, and those vacancies must be filled. It is ridiculous that people should be expected to sit on the sideline, watching the Australian economy go by and presuming that because they have paid taxes in years gone by they can now sit back and enjoy the fruits of their lack of activity. The objective of the exercise is that if this country is to work itself out of the present extremely serious economic malaise we need the full co-operation of every Australian citizen at all levels of the Australian economy. That simply means that we cannot tolerate a rate of unemployment of 300 000 people. Every opportunity must be taken to ensure that figure is reduced by reasonable government action and ensure that those who remain unemployed are truly those who require the maximum degree of government assistance. 
Let us examine the history of changes in the work test since 1972. I was rather surprised to hear the honourable member for Oxley, who was shortly after that the Minister responsible for this area of policy, use, as is not uncommon in this House, selective facts. It is worth noting, for example, that in December 1972 the critical paragraph of the Commonwealth Employment Service instruction concerning the application of a work test stated: 
A claimant for unemployment benefit will be regarded as having refused or failed without good and sufficient reason to accept an offer of employment if he is unwilling to accept and perform work offered to him which having regard to his abilities and qualifications is considered to be suitable in its nature, conditions and location to be undertaken by him. 
Some months later, in early 1973,  Mr Clyde  Cameron and  Mr Hayden  agreed to vary this instruction most significantly because it weakened the basic definition which we were told by the honourable member for Oxley had no major difference from the proposals which we have put before the House. In their weakened form the work concept was: 
Work of a type or nature in which the person usually engages and in which the person's experience, qualifications and training would be used. 
What a glorious concept, if one could say at any moment of time that for every specific applicant there is a specific job exactly tailor made for that person. Regrettably that Government of compassion and concern, which has now left us and is now on the Opposition benches, was comprised of people who failed utterly to apply realism in this area. While the appropriate vacancies do not exist and while we have a record rate of unemployment, the luxury of saying that every person need take only the job he wants because of bis specific background and training, regrettably cannot be achieved. It is this Government's responsibility to ensure that the unemployed are helped to find adequate opportunities for employment. I believe that there is nothing worse for the morale of a man or a woman than to wish to work and to know that the opportunities simply are not there. During the months preceding the change of Government the definition of the work test was further changed. In June 1974 another attempt was made by the previous Government to tighten up the definition because by then it was realised that it had gone too far. There was a record rate of unemployment, combined with a record number of persons receiving unemployment benefits. Suitable employment, in terms of the Government's new definition, will require that when:  . . . after a reasonable period it has not been possible for a person to obtain employment in his usual occupation or work of an equivalent kind, the range of suitable jobs to which he or she may be referred will be extended to all which are within the person's capacity and available to him or her even though a change in status or wages may be involved. 
This is a realistic application of policy to meet a very severe economic and social problem. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Scarf Memorial Foundation is the principal Australian organisation which trades with Arab countries and has been encouraged in its efforts by his Department. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to press reports that an Australian national,  Mr Rex  Sydell has claimed in Jakarta that arms had been supplied from Australia to forces in Timor; if so, can he shed any light on these reports. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What was the total expenditure of funds on the Department of Defence (Air Office) and services under its control in 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What was the total expenditure of funds on capital equipment for the RAAF in each financial year from 1968-69 to 1975-76 inclusive. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Could the Minister advise the House on the financial progress of the Australian Postal Commission's courier service? In view of the Government's policy of limiting the role of the public sector and assisting the private sector, how can he justify the involvement of the APC in this field? Will he consider whether there are areas of the APC's operations which could be beneficially transferred to the private sector? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What was the total expenditure of funds on the Department of Air and services under its control in each financial year from 1968-69 to 1973-74 inclusive. 

 Mr KILLEN- The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the current definition of 'capital equipment ', and has it changed since 1968-69; if so, in what way has it changed. 
What adjustments should be made to ensure comparability in view of (a) the alteration made in Budget listings in 1 974-75 and ( b ) the merger of the Defence Group of Departments in December 1 975. 
-As Chairman of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, I present the 157th report of the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave to make a statement. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it illegal for Medibank to make microfilm records of claims submitted to it. 
If so, does the Government intend to amend the legislation to permit such microfilming with a view to reducing storage space required for normal paper records. 
Has the Prime Minister seen reports emanating from New South Wales of assertions that the Premiers Conference earlier this month will not ultimately result in revenue for local government? Are those reports correct? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
How much extra revenue has Telecom received as a result of dividing up what used to be the pink pages telephone directory into several regionally based directories. 
Is it a fact that advertisers in the directories are now forced to place more than one advertisement if they wish to reach a wider clientele than one region of a city . 
How much extra in production costs, on 1971-72 constant prices if available, does it require to produce several commercial and business telephone directories as opposed to a single, consolidated version as was the pink pages directory. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the number of letters sent by post fallen since the introduction of the 18c stamp rate. 
What effect has been recorded on revenue for ordinary letters since the 1 8c rate was introduced. 
-The Parliament has in the last 2 days conducted a debate into the area of parliamentary control over the expenditure of public funds of a quality which I would suggest has not taken place for many years. As the present Chairman of the Joint Committee on Public Accounts, and therefore naturally holding a brief for the continuance and strengthening of my committee, I welcome the decision of the Government to establish an expenditure committee. In so doing, however, it is my responsibility to point out to the House that while I accept some of the difficulties associated with the proposal which have been noted by honourable members, we are in fact initiating a fairly revolutionary step. One could perhaps wonder why in over 70 years of the existence of this Parliament it has taken so long for honourable members to consider seriously how we can conduct a more effective scrutiny over the expenditure of public funds for which we are fundamentally responsible. 
I think it is a fair criticism of Parliament that we have for so long been perfectly prepared to allow the finance administration of government to rest in a political Umbo, virtually free from the effective control of this Parliament. On those grounds alone I therefore must applaud the principle of establishing this expenditure committee. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the terms of reference of the proposed standing committee and the terms of reference and the duties of the Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee. 
-Let me quote, for the benefit of the House, the final words just spoken by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  He said: 'It is indeed a matter of extreme urgency that Australia act, with honour, now on East Timor'. The very fact that the Opposition has incorporated in  Hansard  a resolution in such terms was nothing more than a massive act of hypocrisy. It is one of the worst acts I, for one, have seen in the Parliament during the last 2 years- a period in which you will recall,  Mr Speaker,  many strange things took place on the floor of this chamber. Never before have I seen an Opposition so suddenly reverse the position it took when it was the Government. Now the Opposition has decided that whatever took place regarding Timor during its period of administration can be ignored and that suddenly the situation has changed so immeasurably that honourable members opposite may stand in this House and attempt to criticise what the Government has done. The Opposition has tried to embellish the facts of its non-interest, non-activity and the complete hypocrisy of its policy over the last 2 years towards East Timor. 
The first indication which Australia received of Indonesia's intended initiatives in relation to Timor became quite clearly evident during the period of the previous Government from September 1974 onwards. Despite that, the then Government and its Prime Minister did virtually nothing to persuade Indonesia to moderate its attitudes. It is well known that there were major differences of opinion between the then Foreign Minister,  Senator Willesee,  and the then Prime Minister.  Senator Willesee  did speak of an act of self-determination and non-use of force. But what happened to him? He was not backed up by the Cabinet nor was he backed up by his Prime Minister, who preferred to go to Indonesia and make it perfectly clear to the Indonesians that he lacked sympathy for the concept of an independent East Timor. It is worth putting on record that the same gentleman, in the United Nations and elsewhere on various occasions from December 1 972 onwards, was perfectly happy to suggest that the Portuguese colonies of Africa, such as Mozambique, Angola and Guinea Bissau, should have acts of self-determination. But nobody considered then whether Guinea Bissau would be an economically viable state. Yet we find this concept of economic viability being suggested in relation to East Timor. 
Let us look at the facts. Around Australia, especially in the South West Pacific, there are many mini-states which, measured by any normal yardstick, are not economically viable. But is there any man in this House who is prepared to come here and honestly state that those small island states should not be given the right of selfdetermination? The former Prime Minister made statements to the Indonesians in such mealymouthed terminology, left them no alternative but to presume that the then Australian Government was perfectly happy to stand back and let events take their inexorable course towards the destruction of a small country containing, as we have been told by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, some 800 000 souls. The destruction of those people, and their loss of any possibility of independence under Indonesia, was a strange policy from a government which was so happy to wax eloquent about other people's independence and their right to self-determination, in this chamber and elsewhere including discussion with Indonesia. Yet it did not show any indication of its courage, fortitude, or desire to maintain all those other glorious epithets we heard put forward by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
Let me contrast the policy of the previous . Government with that adopted by my Government. After we assumed control of the affairs of Australia last November the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  moved decisively and immediately, to put Australia's policy on a strong basis of principle. Our policy is clear. It is based on 4 major points in relation to East Timor- firstly, a cessation of hostilities, thus putting an end to the bloodshed; secondly, a resumption of international humanitarian aid, preferably through the return to East Timor of the International Red Cross; thirdly, a withdrawal of Indonesian forces; and, fourthly, a genuine act of self-determination. The Foreign Minister underlined these points last January and April when he visited Jakarta, and our Ambassador has done likewise at all levels of the Indonesian administration. 
Our position has not been related entirely to our relationship with Indonesia on a bilateral basis. We also have made our position perfectly clear at the United Nations. The Australian delegation played a leading role in formulating the resolution adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in December last year. That resolution called for: 
the withdrawal of Indonesian forces; and 
the restoration of the ceasefire which would allow the people of Timor to determine their own future. 
That is the very right which the former Prime Minister was prepared to deny them. The Security Council met some days after that resolution was tabled and its decision reiterated a number of features which were included also in the General Assembly's resolution. It provided for the appointment of a United Nations special representative, a move suggested and supported by the Australian Government before the Council. 
Of course, it must not be forgotten that Australia is not currently a member of the Security Council. Yet we believed that this matter was one of primary importance for Australia as a member of the region and as a government which was prepared to accept, as we do, the rights, the duties and the responsibilities towards our close neighbours, Indonesia and East Timor. Australia's position nevertheless was set out again by our representative in a statement before the Council on 14 April last. The main points in that statement- renewal of the mandate of  Mr 
Wingspeare Guicciardi, withdrawal of Indonesian forces and a genuine act of selfdetermination were later embodied in the resolution finally adopted by the Security Council. The Australian Government accordingly welcomed the resolution, believing that it provided a basis for progress towards a settlement in East Timor as it incorporated self-determination for the Timorese people. 
I come back to the question time and time again- the right of these people to selfdetermination, a right which was taken from them by the then Labor Government in Australia by its craven lack of courage and its refusal when the time was right to make it clear to the Indonesian authorities that, whilst we wish to maintain good relations with Indonesia, we did not believe in the course of events which was so perfectly obvious. A policy of genuflecting to all and sundry is not the way to maintain international respect for Australia. I emphasise again that so much was said at the United Nations by the then Australian Government about the other Portuguese colonies especially in Africa, and so little was said- in fact not one word was said- by the previous Government in the United Nations in support of East Timor's position. We believe that the strong diplomatic position which we have adopted in Jakarta played some part in encouraging the statement issued by the Indonesian Government on 20 March last in which they indicated that it was intended to withdraw Indonesian forces from the territory, and we shall hold them to it. That is the purpose of our diplomacy. It will be the test of our success that Indonesia must see in Australia as equal and important a relationship as we wish towards Indonesia. 
The Australian representative at the United Nations,  Mr Harry,  in his last statement in relation to the question of East Timor, made this point.  ... the Australian Government and people were most conscious that a stable settlement in East Timor can rest only on the free choice of the people concerned. It remains the firm policy of the Australian Government that the people of the territory should exercise freely and effectively their right of self-determination. And, if their decision is to have any validity, it must be made in the full knowledge of the alternatives from which they are to make their choice. 
This Government, however, unlike its predecessor does not presume to lay down any precise formula or modalities for self-determination. We should prefer to respond to the wishes of the Timorese people themselves as to the best means by which they might genuinely exercise their right of self-determination. We note from the special representative's report, although his visit was hardly a total success, that the parties principally concerned also are agreed on the need for United Nations involvement in selfdetermination for the territory. Whilst we recognise that the question of United Nations assistance in this area would need to be subject to separate consideration and examination, nevertheless we believe that some form of United Nations participation would be appropriate, desirable and in the best interests of the parties concerned. 
Once again let me draw attention to the very real difference between the policy of this Government and the policy of" the previous Government- a government which put so much store on the rights of the United Nations, a government which believed so strongly, in words if not in deeds, that it was to the United Nations that the world was to look for better, more peaceful and more logical and reasoned solutions to problems. Yet when Australia had a problem within 300 miles of the coast whom did the then Government approach? Nobody. They hoped it would go away. In their bilaterial contacts with Indonesia  Mr Whiltam  simply said: 'We think it would be better if East Timor was incorporated in Indonesia because it is not economically viable'. I repeat my opening words: That was one of the greatest acts of hypocrisy that has ever been done by an Australian Government. 
The Liberal-National Country Party Government has noted the remarks of the representatives of the so-called Provisional Government of East Timor and their proposals for selfdetermination in the territory. At first sight these proposals would appear to bear some relation to an earlier program of decolonisation announced by the Government of Portugal. Whilst we believe that these proposals are interesting and deserve further study there would be a need to ensure that the election of a People's Assembly or Parliament was conducted in such a manner as would allow the people of East Timor freely to express their views. The Australian Government therefore continues to regard as important an early resumption of international humanitarian aid to the territory. The conflict has brought hardship and suffering on a massive scale to much of the population. We appreciate the work of the Indonesian Red Cross, but this is a task in which others, including of course the International Committee of the Red Cross would be glad to participate. Australia has already provided humanitarian assistance not only within East Timor itself but also to the Timorese who last year took refuge in Indonesian Timor, as well as of course to refugees who came to 
Australia. I must emphasise therefore that Australia remains ready to contribute humanitarian aid to Timor. It must be remembered by this House that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on his last visit to Indonesia, made it quite clear that we supported the return of the ICRC. There are already indications that the Indonesian Government is prepared to consider that. Discussions are currently taking place in Geneva. We hope that they will come to an early and fruitful conclusion. 
The situation in Timor therefore is indeed a sad one. We are aware that in many quarters of Australia there is a feeling that we should take our opposition to Indonesian action in Timor to the lengths of breaching relations which have developed between the 2 countries. I make this point clear: There is no advantage for the people of Timor, and there is certainly no advantage for the people of Australia, if the relations between Indonesia and Australia are permitted to deteriorate to the position where we are unable, on a bilateral and a multilateral basis, to continue a frank and free airing of our views and to appreciate the fact that there exists a serious difference between us. Accordingly we have no intention of allowing a breach in our relations to take place. As I said, this would not help the Timorese and it would certainly not help the Australian people. The Australian Government is of course conscious that a stable settlement in East Timor can be reached only on the basis of a free choice of the people concerned. It remains the firm policy of the Australian Government that the people of East Timor should exercise freely and effectively their right to selfdetermination. I cannot emphasise that point too strongly. It is the basis of our policy; it is the objective towards which we shall continue to work. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What losses in (a) arms and (b) ammunition from Army and Cadet stores were reported during 1974-75, and from where were the losses reported. 
How many of these arms and what ammunition were recovered, and from where were they recovered. 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
Can the Prime Minister inform the House as to the progress made in achieving reductions in Public Service staffing? 
-As Chairman, I present the 1 58th and 1 59th reports of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
-I seek leave to make a statement. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What sum has the ABC had to pay in order to satisfy defamation judgments awarded against it or to settle defamation actions before judgment was entered in each of the last 5 financial years. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has there been an increase in the referred workload of specialist pathologists since the introduction of Medibank. 
If so, how much money has been paid by Medibank as a result of this increase. 
Is there evidence, at this time, that hospital Pathology Departments are being under-utilised. 
-The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  ended his peroration with the words that his Government wished to provide conditions which any government would want to provide for its citizens. Those words would apply to any government which had the responsibility of ensuring the future of this nation and of its people, but regrettably on 13 December 1975 when the Fraser Government came to office it inherited an economic shambles, the likes of which this nation in its relatively short history of Federation has not seen this side of the Great Depression. We inherited unemployment of approximately 300 000-the highest since the Depression. We had a rate of inflation of some 17 per cent. We had a massive reduction in production and productivity, and investment in plant and equipment had reached negligible levels, while interest rates, which many considered to be one of the major factors of economic progress, had reached the highest levels in Australia's history. We were heading as a nation towards a deficit of some $4,500m for the financial year 1975-76. In quite simple terms that was a formula for national bankruptcy, the destruction of the socioeconomic base upon which the free institutions of this nation have been built. 
The history of the last 75 years of this century shows us too many examples- perhaps Germany was the best of all- of what can happen to a society when it is wrecked by inflation when people literally had to carry bucketfuls of money to buy a loaf of bread with which to feed their children. The previous Government seemed to feel that it could sit back and observe inflation moving inexorably forward. Yet that Government did little in those whole 3 years to counteract what was obviously the cancer in the body politic of the Australian people. We were elected with a comprehensive economic policy. It is comprehensive but at the same time, as has been so eloquently pointed out by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the people of Australia today face no easy options. We all have to tighten our belts. We all have to take the difficult decisions because that is what this Government is here to do and as a nation only after we have done that shall we be able to move forward. Therefore the chief objectives of our economic package obviously are, firstly, to reduce inflation; secondly, to create employment; and thirdly, to restore national productivity. To achieve that, we believe we must have a major increase in investment in plant and equipment. 
The economic weapons which we are using to achieve these objectives include a major reduction in the rapacious taxation system. For that reason we have introduced tax indexation. We are reducing the extravagant Government spending instituted by the last Government over the whole 3 years of its period of office. We are carefully monitoring a reduction of the monetary supply because we believe there is no possibility of our being able to print ourselves out of national bankruptcy as the previous Government attempted to do. We intend to restore investment incentives by instituting, as we have already done, the most generous investment allowance which, when added to the existing double depreciation allowance, gives the Australian industrial base the best opportunity it has ever had to spend, to purchase new plant and equipment. 
However, we are aware that the business community in its collective and individual judgment will undoubtedly take the view that it will not spend on new productive equipment unless it knows that it will have a market. For that reason we have emphasised on many occasions the fact that to help Australia to get out of the present malaise, it is essential that the Australian people get into the market place, unlock their bank accounts and spend their money because by spending their money they will establish the cyclical effect which will ultimately result not only in increased investment in plant and equipment but also in increased employment- and that is the main objective of the exercise. 
In the midst of all this, our major consideration is to re-establish political and economic stability which will automatically encourage confidence in the future of our nation. It is as a nation, as a collective unit, that we must move forward. The selfish attitudes which governments in the past have instituted in this Parliament and elsewhere are as much part of the problem we are facing today. Our foreign investment guidelines, for example, give foreign investment an adequate basis, in partnership with Australian investors, capital and entrepeneurial capacity, to unlock the enormous resources which we know that we, as a nation, have. It is only through unlocking those resources and getting them on the market that we can improve our balance of payments, that we can get a transfer of funds into Australia which in its own way will play a major part in helping us out of the present economic malaise. 
Despite the difficulties the Fraser Government has introduced the most radical social welfare reforms since the introduction of the old age pension. I refer of course to the family allowances. There could be no greater act of any government which could emphasise more than this the fact that the present Liberal-National Country Party Government is, in the words of the Prime Minister, a Government for all Australians. We have acted on the basis of the Henderson report on poverty in Australia, which showed only too clearly that over 300 000 families with some 800 000 children live below the poverty line. To assist those people we have carried out a massive transfer of community wealth to those who are obviously most in need- the underprivileged wives, the poor children, the single parents, the depressed minority groups. Incidentally, these are all groups which the previous Labor Government of compassion and concern, to use its own well-known phraseology, ignored and oppressed even further because of inflation of its own making and because of its construction of a welfare bureaucracy which ensured that the minimum of money, in fact, reached those most in need. Let those honourable members and others in the community who are concerned for the Aborigines in Australia take note of this: Of every dollar spent on Aboriginal welfare only 13c ever reached the Aboriginal people. What greater indictment can we have for the absurd proposition that by building a massive bureaucracy it is possible to overcome the very real poverty and the massive social problems we find in our midst. 
It is pleasant to note that despite the difficulties of the last year and a half in particular, and certainly the last five or six months since we have been in government, we already see encouraging signs. The economic indicators show that consumer confidence is slowly returning to the Australian people. Business morale collapsed completely over the last 3 years. It was absolutely wrung out. It lost its capacity to invest because it had no capital. It made low, if any, profits because the Government of the day believed that 'profits' was a dirty word, forgetting that without profits you get no investment; without investment obviously you cannot build on the industrial and productive base of the Australian economy and create employment. Those days are over. We have pruned Government spending by a projected $2 billion without disturbing essential welfare programs, as we promised in the campaign of last December. We are now giving Australia political stability in which consumers and investors can return to the market place with some confidence that their investments will give them a fair return in the next few years. 
The Australian Labor Party Government's policy led to 2 major results- an explosion of non-productive bureaucratic spending, to which I have already referred, and a boom in land prices. Young married people and pensioners were the ones who suffered from the boom in land prices because they were simply priced out of the market. It is an international fact that when you have massive inflation one of the places where funds are invested, regrettably in the sociological sense, is of course in land speculation. The previous Government's policies in their own contributed more than anything else to the massive growth in the cost of land, which went up by 200 per cent and 300 per cent in some cases in the metropolitan areas of Australia. As I have mentioned, we have managed to cut back the wasteful expenditure in the public sector, and it is very heartening to see that we have succeeded in halting the land boom. 
The wages-prices spiral is undoubtedly the key that unlocks the door to inflation- that Pandora's box- in whose glories members of the Opposition to this day seem to wallow. We have been consistent in asking the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to take into account the economic and social consequences of its wage determinations. It is worth noting that tomorrow's decision will probably be the most significant in the Commission's history. This country can no longer tolerate wage increases of 6.4 per cent as we had in the March quarter and expect to be able to drag ourselves by the bootheels out of the circumstances in which we have found ourselves in the last year and a half. A break must be made, and it must be made in the area of the wages-prices spiral. It has to be done at all levels of the economy otherwise we cannot solve our national problems. The expectation of inflation, which has a built in factor, obviously encourages further inflationary growth and that, in turn, is linked with this inexorable spiral upwards of wages following prices and vice versa. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  foreshadowed the economic statement he brought down the other day as far back as the Budget Speech of 1975. Our economic policies, unlike those of the Opposition in government- it now has none whatsoeverhave been absolutely consistent for nearly 12 months. This was further emphasised in our election policy speech in which we made this point: 
The six months immediately ahead will have to be a staging post for the major reforms of the three year program. During this time three principal objectives will be pursued: the generation of an immediate lift in confidence, investment spending and job opportunities the elimination of extravagance, waste and duplication in Government spending, and the preparation for the reforms of the 1 976 Budget. 
Never before has any government within weeks of its election got down to the job of solving the problems of the Australian economy with such determination- problems not of our making but certainly ones which the Australian people elected us to solve. That is what we will do. Nevertheless success in the war against inflation depends on the co-operation of governments, workers, employers, the arbitration machinery and above all the trade unions. The previous Government made the Australian people believe that governments could do everything. They can not. They certainly cannot beat inflation alone, but  Mr Whitlam  said he could do so. He said he could reduce inflation by one-third. In fact, he forgot that he had trebled it. 
A certain gentleman who is now acting as the Leader of the Opposition. 
Yes, the one going overseas. He will see the ruins there and perhaps he will give a few thoughts to the ruins of the Australian economy and the social and economic shambles which his Government left for us to inherit. 
-As Chairman, I present the 1 60th report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave to make a statement,  Mr Speaker. 
I wish to associate myself with the amendments to the EFIC legislation- this legislation is of considerable relevance to the future effectiveness of the Export Finance Insurance Corporation which has been operating since 1965, and has been of considerable advantage to Australian industry, and has had the support of all Governments during that period. EFIC then EPIC was introduced in 1965 to assist Australian manufacturers in the establishment of manufacturing facilities and overseas investments and to enable them to maintain and to expand their export markets. It is worth noting that Australia has been one of the leaders in this field. But it is also not irrelevant to point out that since we are one of the world 's 1 5 greatest trading nations it is obviously of considerable relevance to the future economic prosperity of our nation that we expand on every possible level the possibilities of trade throughout the world. 
The overseas investment insurance scheme has implemented the policy, as I noted earlier, of successive Australian governments aimed specifically at encouraging direct Australian investment, essentially in developing countries and of course those in the South East Asian and Pacific regions. At present, for example, some 56 overseas investments are currently being covered by the corporation at a value of some $69m. It is worth noting that, following the change of government m Cambodia and the possible loss of the Australian milk plant in Phnom Penh, this will be the first time that the corporation has been requested to meet a major claim. In a sense that is a very good record, but it also suggests that the EFIC has been careful to ensure investments covered by its policies are in the national interest, at the same time not encouraging Australian business to take what the Corporation regards as unnecessary risks. It is worth while noting also that in recent months some 32 applications for investment insurance cover have been submitted. This is a clear indication that there is an increased usage of the scheme hopefully by small to medium as well as large business. Therefore it is not unreasonable to suggest that Australian industry, as it recovers from the depressed state in which it presently finds itself, as well as developing internally will be looking towards foreign markets for an expansion of its capacity. 
The credit insurance policies which are covered by the EFIC essentially cover service policies, construction works policies and leasing policies. I wish to take a few moments of the time of the House to expand on these 3 categories because I think it is of extreme importance that the manufacturers and exporters of Australia are made aware of the considerable opportunities which are at present available to them. The service policies cover payments for technical and professional services, for patents, royalties and so forth; the construction works policies cover payments for sums due under construction contracts entered into overseas. These policies, for example, may cover the supply of goods and materials as well as the performance of services where both are specified in a contract. As to the third type of policies, namely leasing policies, these cover lessors of Australian equipment against failure or inability of overseas lessees to pay accounts due under leasing or hiring agreements. In other words, those 3 areas of policy cover most of the likely situations in which an Australian exporter may find himself placed. 
The principal amendments, as already noted by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  when he introduced this legislation, will empower the Corporation to enter into transactions for the more routine business on its commercial account in accordance with the policy approved by the Minister. The previous system was that all applications for policies had to be submitted to the Minister for his specific approval. It is not unreasonable to suggest- I am delighted that the Minister has accepted this advice- that it would be more sensible to apply the policy criteria on the basis of judgments which cover all reasonable expectations. Therefore, the policy approved by the Minister in relation to the EFIC amendments establishes guidelines which will be observed by the Corporation. The Corporation also has categories of investment which will be eligible for insurance which are in the nature of non-commercial risks against which investors overseas should be insured- such as warlike acts, confiscation, imposition of trade restrictions and buyer insolvency. Of course those applications which fall outside the scope of the approved guidelines will continue to be referred to the Minister for specific approval. 
An additional amendment which has been proposed in this Bill is the provision of a definition of an overseas investment transaction. This is of considerable relevance in relation to insurance cover in particular because it will enable the cover to be broadened and will reflect more effectively the current commercial practices in this regard. It is also proposed to have 2 additional categories of investment, namely, guarantees of loans made to finance investment overseas, and secondly, investment transactions made through overseas affiliates. As far as Australia's investment overseas is concerned, the latter is of particular relevance because although the Australian shareholder must have a majority interest, it will mean that investments entered into on the basis of a joint operation with a Hong Kong business or a Chinese business in, Singapore or Malaysia will be eligible for cover by the EFIC. Therefore, the possibilities of making reasonable insurance cover available on the terms which I have already noted should be of considerable assistance in the further development of the South-east Asian region. Of course, fundamentally the proposals are directed to facilitating our commercial relations with developing countries. 
There is, however, a specific matter indirectly associated with this legislation which I hope the Government will be considering in the future; that is, of course, the question of insurance cover for performance bonds. This is in a sense related to the recent proposal of the Associated Chamber of Manufactures of Australia and various other manufacturing organisations for the establishment of what they call an Australian Overseas Projects Corporation. The basic objective of course is to enter into an arrangement with the Government by which Australian secondary industry- both manufacturers and those who wish to enter into contractual arrangements for the construction of capital works projects overseas- will be enabled to have reasonable cover. The present situation therefore is that adequate cover, in terms of performance bonding, does not exist. 
I should explain for the benefit of the House the concept of performance bonds. They are financial guarantees ensuring that the project concerned is completed and that it meets contractual specifications. They are normally irrevocable and may be arranged through banks or insurance companies, and on occasions the bonds are open-ended to the extent that the buyer has considerable bargaining power. This is a very normal procedure in most European, and certainly North American, countries. There are, however, at the present time in Australia only 2 companies, both of which are, incidentally, foreign owned which arc prepared to enter into the performance bonding market. The importance of these bonds arises from the practice of making advance and progress payments for large construction projects, and these payments are clearly in the interests of the supplier; but buyers could hardly be expected to make them without some guarantee that the project will in fact be completed. Without performance bonds the suppliers would be able to enter into contracts which they may or may not be able to fulfil and still have the effective option of being able to get out if profitability expectations become adverse. The bonds ensure that the risks associated with large international projects in particular are borne by suppliers, at least to the extent specified in the contract. Because most Australian construction companies are short of capital and find difficulty in obtaining colateral security for bonding purposes. 
I am particularly interested in performance bonding because over the years successive Australian governments have made considerable investments in organisations, such as the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development IBRD- the International Development Association- IDA- and the Asian Development Bank. All 3 organisations require various levels of performance bonding before they will be prepared to enter into contractual arrangements with overseas supplies of goods and services and especially for technological and capital skills, which is what we need to export from Australia at the present time. I would therefore suggest that the Government examine this matter without delay, because it would appear that when we are in a state of economic slump, as we are at the present time, especially in the construction industry, there is a considerable degree of logic in suggesting that a government should encourage alternative areas of activity, if not in Australia then at least overseas to utilise excess capacity in the industry. It is worth noting the fact that the contributions made by the developed world to those 3 international banking organisations have run into thousands of millions of dollars; and it is only fair that since Australia certainly pays its fair share we should also be in the position where our industrial base will at least be able to get into the market. 
In purely financial terms, the evidence would suggest that we have not done too badly. For example, up to 3 1 December last year Australia contributed some $85.7m to the IBRD, and the Bank's procurement in Australia for that period was some $69.7m mainly goods and services, not construction. In other words, we are a little behind but then procurement is more than 75 per cent of our contribution. We find a similar situation in relation to the International Development Association, the IDA. We have invested, again up to 31 December last year, some $48.5m, and we have received in Australia a procurement of some $57m. The Asian Development Bank, however, which is the organisation with which we must be most closely associated, does not have such a beneficial result. Our contributions, again up to December of last year, were some $40.9m, while the procurement in Australia was only $22m. It is worth noting that it was Japan that got the lion's share, as far as the Asian Development Bank contracts are concerned. 
I must emphasise, however, that our aid policies should not be directed specifically to our own advantage. Nevertheless, since these investments are being made overseas, and as these banks are going to issue contracts and tenders on the basis of their own criteria, which involve performance bonds, it is only reasonable to expect that the Australian Government should be m a position to enable Australian contractors and suppliers of goods and services to be covered by an adequate insurance bonding system. It is worth repeating that the performance bond system has been used throughout the world and has become of particular relevance to investments in the Middle East. It appears that the oil rich countries have suffered considerable losses due to the default of suppliers and to the fact that projects are not living up to their expectations. For that reason they are demanding more than ever before that those who wish to put in a bid for major capital works projects, such as the construction of hotels, harbours and other major facilities are required to lodge performance bonds. At the present time, because the EFIC is not able under its Act to give these bonds, Australian industry is not able to enter into a fair comparative position with competition in the United States, the European Economic Community and so on. 
As I noted earlier, the EFIC does not provide cover for the loss of performance bonds, presumably on the grounds that the event leading to the loss is within the control of the supplier. However, recent experience suggests that that approach is no longer effective. Both Lloyds and various American insurance interests now offer cover for loss of performance bonds. With regard to the Middle East in particular, it has been suggested that a new element of risk is that it is sometimes difficult to obtain impartial contract arbitration when dealing with the Middle East countries. Therefore, the performance bonds are so open-ended that the balance has swung almost completely in the buyers' favour. It is not easy to achieve a multi-million dollar contract when you are bidding against major Italian, French, British and German construction firms. If we are to give the Australian construction industry a chance to enter into this very lucrative market, then obviously it is our responsibility to ensure that it is given this form of cover. 
Performance bonds are normally expressed as a percentage of the contract price and they vary greatly between countries, between projects and, of course, between suppliers. There are some general comments, however, which are relevant because I consider this matter to be of considerable importance. Where a subsidiary company is required to take out a bond, it is normal for a similar undertaking to be made by the parent company as well. In the Middle East, a typical bond would amount to 20 per cent or 25 per cent of the contract price. These can sometimes be called up 'at will' but are usually offset by advance payments. In South East Asia, on the other hand, performance bonds are somewhat smaller and normally in the region of 5 per cent to 10 per cent. One insurance company currently providing cover for loss of performance bonds, cites various prices between Malaysia and Laos, for example, and the variation is between 10 per cent and 20 per cent. The Asian Development Bank, which I noted earlier, and the World Bank frequently require considerable performance bonds. Unless a company is in a position to make it quite clear that those funds are available it simply will not be seriously considered for tendering. 
The difficulty, therefore, is that not only do amendments have to be made in the legislation to cover this very real problem, but also the EFIC, which has proved itself to be a most efficient organisation, does perhaps run the risk over the next few years of expanding its area of operation to such an extent that it will lose its administrative economics of scale which it presently has between its executive and its operating capacity. I had the pleasure when I was in the Department of Foreign Affairs to be involved with the EFIC in making assessments of overseas investments. I must say that of all the statutory corporations with which I have dealt at various times, I was extremely impressed with the efficiency of that organisation. I sincerely hope that it will continue to grow and continue to give to the Australian industrial base the considerable assistance which it obviously needs. 
There are in Australia, as I said earlier, only 2 companies which are prepared to enter into performance bonding. It is certainly relevant for the business community to be aware that there are some facilities available. But it is also of considerable importance that the rates which these companies charge are, in my opinion, prohibitive. Those charges are probably quite sufficient to force many companies not to tender seriously for very lucrative contracts abroad, bom from governments such as in Saudi Arabia, or through the international banking organisations which I have already mentioned. Therefore what we have to consider is how to overcome this 
The legislation as it presently stands quite specifically states that the EFIC is not allowed to enter into competition with the private sector. I have no problem with that whatsoever. What I suggest, however, is that if the EFIC is going to consider performance bonding it should be in a position to guarantee those bonds so that the existing insurance industry, whether it be Australian owned or foreign owned is encouraged to offer reasonable rates so that the Australian construction industry can take the necessary insurance cover and tender for contracts. As I have said, at the present time very few Australian contractors have work overseas. The construction industry, insofar as it is capable of investing overseas and making serious attempts to obtain these large and lucrative contracts, can only be encouraged if we are able to give it the basic insurance cover which is available to its major competitors. 
-The Government is to be congratulated for its decision to reaffirm publicly our policy that it is a fundamental responsibility of the Government to safeguard the integrity and the defence of the State. The previous Government found this proposition difficult to accept. That Government led the Australian people to believe- and it did them a great disservice in so doing- that there was no foreseeable threat for 15 years. I challenge the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart),  who has tried to equate the present Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  with some historic figures, to deny- if he has ever bothered to read history- that in no period of human endeavour has it been possible to foretell the threats of the future. 
Let us be more specific and look at the record. Honourable members will no doubt be aware of the famous story of the Trojan horse. Did the people of Troy know what was inside that wooden horse outside their walls? They were stupid enough to believe that when the Athenian troops withdrew, the horse was simply a symbol of their desire for peace, when in fact it contained warriors who opened the gates for the invader. Let me cite more recent examples. Who was to foretell that a Napoleon was to rise from the flames of the French Revolution, that a Hitler would rise from the ashes of a Germany brought to its knees following the Great War, the Versailles Treaty and the Great Depression? The evidence is quite clear: We do not know what the future holds. What we do know as a government is that it is our fundamental responsibility to ensure that every possibility is covered in our defence planning, in our strategies. It is a sad fact that in the last 5 years, since previous governments were in power, having, on the advice of the Department of Defence, changed the emphasis from forward defence to that of the defence of Australia and her interests, we still are not in a position to say precisely what are the ramifications of the defence of Australia. The reason is clear. Ever since the 1930s the defence planners have looked at the problems of Australia in relation to the environment in which we live but very little consideration was given to the territorial defence of the continent. We still did not know, for example, what is the strength of our bridges; we did not know which ones could carry tanks and which ones could not. We still do not have airfields except the remnants of those that were built during the Second World War. We still do not have the infrastructure so that we can get our forces which are mainly concentrated on the eastern seaboard over to the west or the north or the north west which obviously are the areas in which we have to consider future defence planning. 
The present Government has made it quite clear in its recent statement by the Minister that we are looking at those considerations now. It is indeed a sad fact that over the last 3 years nothing seems to have been achieved at all in that area. On the contrary, defence was given such a low priority by the last Government of compassion and concern- words which it regrettably applied in so many areas of its policy to no avail. The defence structure which is based essentially on the quality of personnel was allowed to run down in terms of morale, equipment, opportunities for training, facilities and so forth, to the extent that during the last 3 years we lost some 13 per cent of our officer corps. That represents in terms of man years something to the order of 20 000 man-years of trained officers. They cannot be picked off trees. They have to be trained and matured and given experience at junior and middle rank and ultimately senior command levels. You cannot achieve those levels of command if you do not have the troops for them to command. From the divisional structure right down to the section of the infantry regiment, there were never over the last 3 years full strengths. Yet the officers are expected to train for eventualities in respect of which the previous Government had not attempted to define. 
Today we have to pick up the remnants of our defences and slowly but surely blend them and increase their efficiency to meet the requirements of Australia for at least the next 20 years. That is precisely what we are doing. Our strategic appreciation which is the essence of defence planning must examine the whole range of possible situations. It must concern itself both with an all out war situation which could erupt without Australia being able to do very much about it and also with a much lower level operation involving Australia, our near neighbours or other nations. In fact in fairly simplistic terminology one can say that there are 3 levels of threat which must be considered. At the lowest level there is the simple question of illegal immigration, illegal fishing and so forth. At the present time the Navy might just have the capacity to meet that level. It has little capacity to go above that point. The second level is a situation such as we have seen in relation to Papua New Guinea or Timor where sudden confrontation situations can develop literally overnight. In fact, the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  who has had experience in these matters would not have known in 1963 that by 1965 he would be commanding his troops up in Borneo in a confrontation situation between Indonesia and Malaysia. Certainly no member of this House would have known it either. Nevertheless the facts of history show that the situation deteriorated so fast that before we knew what had happened we were virtually in a confrontation situation ourselves. That example merely goes to show those who do not wish to read their history books that even over the last decade Australia has found itself in two important military encounters- namely Vietnam and Malaysia. Of course, Australia has also been involved in Korea since the Second World War. Therefore it is quite clear that in developing one's strategic concepts we have to build up a series of plans of the defence of Australia and Australia's interests which by definition goes beyond the mere seaboards of the Australian coast. It is also worthwhile remembering that in the next few months we will see the results of the law of the sea conference and there is the possibility that Australia will be in charge of a territorial sea almost equal in terms of size to our entire continental land mass. Yet we do not have the capacity in terms of our Navy to defend our national interests. What would we do, for example, if some raider appeared off the coast and attacked oil rigs in Bass Strait or perhaps installations on the north west shelf when we start developing the massive reserves of gas in that area? These will need to be defended and money will have to be spent and men will have to be trained and equipment purchased. 
This Parliament and the Australian people might as well start to realise the facts. If we are not praparted to defend our own national interests, if we prefer to leave in this nation a massive vacuum, be sure that the lsssons of history will again be made clear, except that we will be the ones to suffer. Some other power at some stage in the future will simply take from us that which we believe is legally and justifiably ours. You need more than law, you need strength. Certain members of the Opposition in this place and elsewhere who admire Mao Tse-Tung made it quite clear that power does grow from the end of a gun. Quite clearly, therefore, if we are to defend ourselves we must have the power to gain international respect. That can be achieved only by making it clear to all that Australia is a nation that is sovereign not just by law but by its capacity to defend its own national interests wherever those interests may lie. 
The Australian Defence Review of 1972 was regrettably the last occasion on which this Parliament was given the opportunity to debate in full the strategic concepts upon which the Australian defence structure was based. In my final concluding remarks I must make the point clear that in an effective defence structure we need to have the full co-operation of the 3 defence Services and, of course, the Department of Defence. I sincerely hope that we will not see cases where I understand it took the Inter Departmental Committee some ten or eleven years to come forward with a report on the Rapier missile. We need a more effective administrative system so that the Government can receive the required information and advice as soon as possible. It is only when the decisions have been made, and the Australian people have had clearly explained to them their role that we can expect to receive the full co-operation of the nation. It is only through trying to develop that level of co-operation that we can effectively as a nation safeguard our national interests and the welfare of our people. 
Motion (by  Dr Cass)  negatived: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
How many of the ABC's staff were employed at the national tally room to receive the results of the last election. 
How many were brought to Canberra from interstate. 
What was the total cost of travel and accommodation allowances paid to them. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What sum was spent on land acquisition for urban housing purposes by the previous Government. 
How much land was acquired. 
Excluding the purchase of land from the Church of England in Glebe, how much of this land cannot be resold. 
What is the resale value of this land. 
Does the Government intend to sell any or all of this land; if so, what sum does the Government expect to receive from the sale. 
-The attention of the Minister for Defence has no doubt been drawn to statements by the honourable member for Oxley claiming that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence had, for political purposes, accused Russia - 
-I move: 
In clause 15(1 )(a)(iii) omit the words ', not being an Act, '. 
I think the purpose of that amendment is selfevident and I have spoken to it previously. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
-I propose to move: 
In clause IS (1) (a) (iii) omit the words 'not being an Act'. 
The omission of those words would enable the Ombudsman to comment on or recommend changes to Acts of Parliament if on investigation of complaints he experiences or discovers difficulties inherent in the legislation, or if he observes that it is not satisfactory in operation. It would appear that just as courts of law at the present time are able to criticise legislation which they find inadequate the Ombudsman ought also to be able to comment on Acts with which he is expected to deal but over which the Bill does not give him the right to comment. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clause (4). 
The deletion of sub-clause (4) will have the effect of enabling the Ombudsman to enter into any place- for example, a government departmentwithout having to give prior advice to the principal officer of the department. One would presume, of course, that in most cases it would be normal procedure for the Ombudsman to advise the secretary of a department of his intention to visit. Nevertheless, there is considerable advantage to be gained, in my view, by allowing the Ombudsman to have this freedom of movement so that departments would be kept on their toes. When questions of relevance were being considered the Ombudsman would be able to enter into a normal work type situation, and departments, if they were so disposed to do, would not have the opportunity of, shall we say, preparing the ground in advance. 
-The effect of the amendment which I have already proposed to clause 15 will not allow the Ombudsman to - 
-I wish to move that amendment. 
Clause 14- by leave- reconsidered. 
Before entering, for the purposes of an investigation under this Act, any premises occupied by a Department or prescribed authority, an authorised person shall inform the principal officer of the Department or authority of his intention to enter the premises. 
I would like to make some comments in relation to this legislation. It is, as has been pointed out by previous speakers, perhaps one of the most significant pieces of legislation, relevant to the administration of government, seen in this House for many years. In regard to clause 4 1 would just like to make the point that we are, as the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  so rightly pointed out, looking for a person to be the ombudsman who will be not only accessible but also able to recommend the rectification of injustices, be independent of government, be impartial and above all be able to understand government. Perhaps in many ways we are looking for quite a remarkable person, but nevertheless the people of Australia and this Parliament have every expectation that we shall find somebody who has these very rare qualities and who will be able to serve this Parliament and through it the Australian people. There is absolutely no doubt that many people today feel that they are ground down by the heel of bureaucracy to one degree or another, and whether this is justified or not the fact remains that it behoves this Parliament to ensure that the people of Australia are given every opportunity to assure themselves, as well as their peers, that they are in fact given a fair deal by all levels of government. Already we have seen in 5 States the establishment of an ombudsman. I am delighted to see that at last this Parliament has before it legislation of this type. 
It is worth pointing out that the Law Reform Commission of New South Wales in its report which led up incidentally, to the establishment of the ombudsman in New South Wales pointed out that 'the experience of other countries indicates that a report to an aggrieved person by a highly qualified and independent investigator, whether there is disclosure of administrative error or a conclusion that the complaint was illfounded, gives satisfaction'. It is important, as I have said, in this highly complex technological society that the rights of individuals be seen to be protected from the bureaucracy which people often feel they are incapable of opposing. To accomplish this task, however, the ombudsman must have the plenary power to have access to all matters, files and other evidence in relation to the complaint which he is supposed to investigate. The importance of this right of access cannot be over-stressed and I would hope that cognisance will be taken of the fact that only about 10 per cent to 15 per cent of complaints which have been examined by ombudsmen in other countries have in fact been shown to have very much substance. Nevertheless, the important point is not whether there is substance in the complaint but that the citizen must feel that there is redress against what is believed to be an unfair administrative action taken by the Public Service. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 5. 
) The Ombudsman is not authorized to investigate: 
a ) action taken by a Minister; 
action taken by a Justice or Judge of a court created by the Parliament; 
action taken by a magistrate or coroner for the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory; 
action taken by any body or person with respect to persons employed in the Australian Public Service, ' the Public Service of the Northern Territory or the service of a prescribed authority, being action taken in relation to that employment, including action taken with respect to the promotion, termination of appointment or discipline of a person so employed or the payment of remuneration to such a person; 
action that the Defence Force Ombudsman is authorized to investigate; or 
action taken by a Department or by a prescribed authority with respect to the appointment of a person to an office established by or under an enactment, not being an office in the Australian Public Service, an office in the Public Service of the Northern Territory or an office in the service of a prescribed authority. 
-As Chairman I present the 161st report of the Public Accounts Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave to make a short statement. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Did the Minister's recent announcement regarding increased aid to South Pacific countries involve a 3 or 5-year rolling program? Did it merely increase the amount or was there an endeavour to change the nature of the aid programs? 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Has the Minister seen recent Press reports that the Leader of the Opposition encouraged trade unions to engage in political strikes? Does the Minister regard industrial stoppages, bans and the like on political or non-industrial issues as a legitimate use of union power? 
-The legislation we are debating is to enable the Parliament to approve the Government's spending some $30.73m towards the first replenishment of the Asian Development Fund established within the Asian Development Bank. Much of what the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said in relation to the problems of foreign aid are, of course, correct. I think it would be fair to say that on both sides of this chamber there is virtually a bipartisan approach to the fundamental and major international, social and economic problems which many countries face. The honourable member has emphasised that in his opinion this Government does not give sufficient funds for international assistance. As has been pointed out by many speakers on numerous occasions the fact that we are unable to give as much as we would like must be sheeted home to the irresponsible attitude adopted by members of the honourable member's Party when in Government only some 10 or 11 months ago. Whether we like it or not in every area of national endeavour and certainly in the area of international assistance we are faced with the reality of having to cut our coat according to our cloth. 
The improvements in living standards of the world's poor must be one of the major challenges of our time. It will remain a challenge for at least the rest of this century and I would expect well into the next. In fact it is possible to look over the last 25 years of international and national development efforts and claim that much has been achieved. Developing countries have improved their basic infrastructure; railways, roads, bridges and power systems have been built. The skills of many of their peoples to provide the basis of a higher level of economic activity have also been developed. This has, of course, been assisted by technical and financial aid from virtually all developed countries in the world. As stated in a recent report of the British Ministry of Overseas Development: 

 Major progress has been made so that, for example, in the fifteen years since 1960 the Aggregate Gross National Product (GNP) of developing countries, taken as a whole, more than doubled in real terms, rising on average by almost 6 per cent per annum. Even taking into account population growth, average income per head grew by some 3 per cent per annum. However, this overall picture conceals considerable differences between countries, and the poorest countries as a group have recorded a much lower rate of growth (under 4 per cent) over the same period. 
But regardless of what has taken place in the past the inexorable fact facing us today is that although there has been some improvement in certain areas of the world, notably, I am pleased to say, in South East Asia with perhaps the major exception being Bangladesh, greater problems have been created in parts of Africa with the Sahelian famine, droughts and other international catastrophes which the best planners have been incapable of anticipating. 
The Government recognises that the economic and social progress of mankind is of fundamental importance if we are to achieve any degree of stable international relations in the future. Therefore, the progress we are seeking on an international level requires growth in productivity, education, higher living standards and, of course, the necessary social changes which will bring those about. To achieve this, developing countries will continue to require substantial imports of capital, technology and managerial skills as well as a continuation of bilateral and multilateral aid from the developed world. The Asian Development Bank has been an organisation with which Australia has been associated right from its earliest days. In fact, I believe that the Bank and its fund will be seen in the future as a very good example of what a regional aid body can achieve, provided it has within its ranks both aid donors and aid recipients realistic enough to appreciate that the problems they are trying to overcome together can be overcome only by a rational approach and a utilisation of the existing resources available to them. 
The Asian Development Fund which the Bank has created is based on the simple premise that we must look to the fundamental economic base of most Asian countries before we can seek to understand how best they can be developed. Of course, the basic objective on the economic level is to reach the point of self-sustained take-off, as it has been called by various writers. Regrettably, this point of self-sustained growth has been somewhat a figment of the imagination and we still seek it. We see that there are many countries in which the birth rate continues to grow at some 3 per cent or even more to the extent that whatever gross domestic product growth can be achieved is lost by the continuation of the high birth rate. This is a fundamental problem. The Indian Government in recent times has developed what we would regard in this country as being the most Draconian methods to try to achieve some stabilisation. We have yet to see whether they will be successful. It is my personal opinion that they will not succeed. This is because the reason why there is this massive increase in births is a fundamental social one. We are dealing with a society in which most people are involved in primary production. Whether the people are in fact land owners begs the question. 
The people find themselves in a situation in which their families represent a social welfare insurance policy for the future. When parents have about 6 or 7 children and it can be guaranteed that half of them will die before they are 2 years old, there is obviously a fundamental tendency for families to go for broke, so to speak, to increase the size of their families to the maximum extent in the hope that at least a reasonable number will survive and therefore be in a position to look after their parents in their old age. Of course, this is a very sad reflection on the sociological imperfections of the system and the way of life in which many of our fellow human beings find themselves. Nevertheless, it is a fact that we have to recognise. 
Together with this fundamental population problem we must also take into account the question of land distribution. Again, in the case of India, much has been done. Nevertheless, a lot yet has to be actioned. At any one time literally millions of landless peasants believe, perhaps incorrectly, that the bright lights of the city will at least offer them a concept of employment which they have never known before. While in this nation we talk of unemployment being a problem, in the countries to which we are referring tonight it is not just a question of unemployment, but also of under-employment. This is because many millions of people are guaranteed that in their entire lives they will never find a job which will last for more than a few weeks. To us it is almost an incomprehensible concept. Nevertheless, it is a very real one. We may well look around us and wonder why we see today, developing since 1972, the concept of the 'New World Economic Order'. 
Of course, the seeds of this grew from the oil crisis of that year when the developing world, through no fault of its own, found itself in an even worse position than the developed world. While our prices increased to a massive extentthis was one of the fundamental reasons for the later high level of inflation which beseiged us all- the people in the developing world suddenly found themselves in the position in which over two-thirds at least of their total import bill was doubled or even trebled in some cases. Sadly most members of the oil producing cartel were themselves developing countries in the terms of the United Nations formula. Nevertheless they have not shown themselves to be particularly partial towards giving special rates for the export of oil and so forth to their brethren who are often in a much worse position than they are. 
Therefore, the developing world today is asking- it is not only asking but has reached the stage of demanding- that there be a fundamental redistribution of the world's resources to ensure that their people can have a reasonable standard of living and some expectation that this world into which they have been born will enable them to at least keep body and soul together. In rich countries like Australia, this is something which we have read about. We see photographs depicting the position. Perhaps we are rather inured to what poverty really means. But ultimately it is not just the developed world which has to give in some form or another to the developing world. The answer lies fundamentally with the fact that the developing world itself must be prepared to play a much greater part than it has in achieving its own economic progress. This is not a new argument. It is one which has been heard on many occasions in the past. 
But I am a little concerned about what happened at a recent international conference which I attended. I saw the representatives of many developed countries- in fact, virtually all of them- agreeing to resolutions which in sense were quite outrageous and in terms of the normal economic realities with which we must all live had no hope whatsoever of ever reaching fruition. What I am concerned about is that if this is allowed to continue indefinitely we run a real risk of building up in the minds of the people of the developing world an expectation of achieving their objectives which in reality cannot be achieved. The dangers of that at the international level are only too real. I believe that the developed world must give a much greater degree of thought than it has in the past, not just promising to improve the relationship between the developed and the developing world and not just signing various international agreements to give more money or to promise more aid and then going off at the end of the conference to forget all about it. If we are to do that indefinitely, I believe that ultimately the dangers will become only too evident. But by that stage it could be too late. 
I mentioned earlier the need for the developing countries to do more for themselves. There is, of course, a very real tendency for the ruling classes in many of these countries, regardless of whether they be there by the democratic process or by force of arms, to take the view that having achieved power, the object of the exercise is to maintain it regardless of how the people under them are expected to live. For example, there are countries in Africa where model French chateaux have been built and where every member of parliament is equipped with a Mercedes-Benz and driver. While many honourable members may wish they had similar benefits, at least we can say to our people that we do not live beyond our means. On a recent visit to Africa I was in a small state which was about to get its independence. There were 6 magnificent palaces which had been built for the  president  and his first S ministers. When I asked the person taking me around why they had to live in such luxury, I was told in a very off-handed manner, 'You do not expect them to live like the rest of the people, do you? After all they could not possibly respect a man who did not live in a sumptuous mansion in the manner to which he was allegedly going to become accustomed.' Of course, I found some difficulty in accepting this thesis but nevertheless 
I do not expect other countries and other peoples to have the same sense of values which we may have. This is one of the problems we face in terms of international development. We have a tendency to see other people through our own eyes. We believe that what we have is therefore suitable for everyone else. This is too ambitious an objective. 
We in Australia are lucky to have such a very rich country and such a relatively small population to share that wealth but in many of these less developed countries their greatest wealth is their people. We have seen that in the case of Singapore where in a mere 10 years that small country has literally dragged itself up by its bootstraps and is now reaching a point where its balance of payments is even comparable with that of this country. One naturally says we can hardly consider it to be a less developed country. However, as I said earlier, in India, in Bangladesh, in the Philippines and elsewhere there is at last a very real indication of some progress being made. In a sense the green revolution was an achievement but there are many people today who look upon the green revolution as being a disaster for although it did result in a much greater yield per acre for crops, at the same time it introduced into basic peasant societies expectation of technological innovation and, when added to the fact that they have already such a huge population which is underemployed, one must seriously question whether a high standard of technology is the answer to their difficulty. 
Following independence they believed that the only way to catch up with the West was to compete on the basis of technology and secondary industry, and consequently we are facing even in Australia the problem of a large textile industry in the Philippines, for example, which wishes to export to markets like ours which they believe should be open to their products. Therefore we have in a sense a fundamental difficulty. On the one hand governments, especially elected governments in South-East Asia, nave tended to take the approach that from the point of view of the electorate they need to have prestige projects to show where their aid has been spent. Technical schools have been built next door to the local textile factory and when one asks where these students are to be employed one is told in the textile factory, but obviously there is alimit as to how many students can go there. Therefore we find a fundamental weakness in the structure of their secondary development because they have spent their aid funds and their own hard-won foreign exchange resources in the development of prestige projects which ultimately are not necessarily the answer to their problems. 
On the other hand, many of these developing countries see themselves merely as quarries which the developed world regard as its source of primary commodities. Of course, this is not new. Our own country has for such a long time been essentially a primary resource exporter and in that sense we have a lot in common with many of these developing countries. We are able therefore to share with them the fundamental difficulties and frustrations they feel when we see an international market which has a tendency to vary depending on the international economic environment over which they have absolutely no control. On that basis, therefore, to them foreign aid or assistance at various levels is still essential. 
However, we have to come down to the realisation that there is a limit to how much money or technical assistance can be given by the developed countries. We also have electorates with requirements which must be met and therefore I believe the time is not far off when we will have to say- not just Australia but most of the developed world- to many developing countries that aid must be allocated on the basis of the use to which it is put and those governments which can show a good record in the way they have utilised their aid should obviously be given first priority. There is, of course, the other argument to the effect that this is not a humanitarian view, but I am sorry to say that ontoo many occasions I have seen massive aid projects which have been misdirected and have failed in their basic objectives, enabling governments to line their own pockets with foreign aid which should have been spent for the good of their people. 
-My question, which is supplementary to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition, is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to speculation that his Department will assume control of the operations of Radio Australia? Will the Minister inform the House whether the speculation has any substance? 
This morning we have heard 2 speeches from Opposition members in support of a matter of public importance. It is regrettable that neither speaker spoke to the subject which was meant to be the substance of the debate. 
-Let me go through this matter item by item and take the opportunity to define the terminology used. Let us analyse what the Opposition has said and compare that with the facts of the situation. We were told that the Federal Government had instituted a campaign to denigrate the trade union movement. We were also told that it denies the trade union movement the right to be involved in matters of legitimate trade union interest. Let me go through those step by step. Where is this campaign? As the constitutionally elected, government of the people of Australia it is our responsibility and ours alone to lay down the guidelines for the economic development of this nation-economic development which at this stage has faltered. One of the reasons why it has faltered is because there is a small group- I emphasise that it is a small group- of militant communist and left-wing trade union leaders who have made it quite clear, at every opportunity they get, that they do not like the arbitration system, that they do not wish to live under the social system and that they wish to destroy the system. 
Let us look at the realities. If they do not like the system they can go and live in the Soviet Union. If they wish to destroy the system they can take to the streets where they will be subject to the laws of the land. But if they are prepared to work through the constitutional system, the electoral system of this Parliament, they have the right to do that too. What I fail to see is how a small group, and it is such a small group, can be encouraged by the Australian Labor Party to believe that it can use its power to destroy, to denigrate and to disrupt the daily activities of the majority of Australian people and of its own trade union rank and file members. 
If it were not for the fact that one-third of all trade union members vote for non-Labor parties we could never form a government. If honourable members examine the trade union movement as a percentage of the total workforce they will see that the trade union movement represents only just over 50 per cent. What about the remainder? Is it not to be given any rights? What about the millions of people in Australia who do not belong to trade unions but who dutifully live by the democratic system which they understand and which they respect? Does the Opposition seriously suggest that the Government, for some extraordinary reason, is presenting itself as a campaigner against the rights of the trade unions? We are here because the majority of Australians put us here. We are not going to fail them because a small group of trade unionists- I again emphasise that point- decided that it does not like us, does not like our policies, does not like the system of government or anything that comes from it. 
When we consider the harassment which has fallen upon the average trade unionist, in the last few months, in fact in the period from January to August this year, trade unionists and workers as a whole in Australia lost $95, 894m in wages. In case members of the Opposition do not wish to accept this fact, I stress mat when trade unionists lose their wages they suffer as much as anybody else. When the ordinary people of Australia cannot take a train, a bus or a hydrofoil, they get upset and say to the Government: 'You are the elected government. We put you in power to control these situations'. Yet a small group of people including the Opposition is denying the Government its right to administer adequately the activities of the Australian economy. May I remind those who wish to destroy our democratic system of government that a democracy must exist on a consensus. A government cannot effectively carry out what is required of it by the law and by the traditions of the parliamentary system if a small group of people are encouraged to believe that they can usurp power outside the democratic process. 
Let us be quite frank about it. We have been told about the so-called democracy in the trade union movement. How could anyone believe that the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union is democratic when 1.1 per cent of the membership of approximately 180 000 can elect the Secretary and the Deputy Secretary? Honourable members opposite have the temerity to talk about union democracy. In this week's  Bulletin  there is an article on a book entitled  Inside Australia's Top 100 Trade Unions.  The article contains an interesting quotation from  Mr J.  D. Garland, the Secretary of the AMWU. He was asked this question: 
Statistics show that the AMWU represents 3 per cent of the work force and is responsible for some 30 per cent of disputes. Why? 
He gave 3 reasons. One of them was: 
The union has for a long period not accepted the capitalist system as one which either in the short or long term is in the best interests of the working people. 
He speaks for the union. As I pointed out, he was elected by 1.1 per cent of the union membership. Not one member of this Parliament would have the temerity to make such an allegation on behalf of his electorate. Yet certain people in the trade union movement are encouraged to believe that power once gained by various means is held at all costs. We were elected to protect the interests of all Australians- trade unionists and non-trade unionists alike. We cannot sacrifice the Australian people because a small group are prepared to use their power in an irresponsible manner. Anyone reading the newspapers will appreciate what continuous strike action, often on very minor matters, means to the Australian economy in lost wages and productivity. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition spoke about mass action by trade unions. What he meant was mass anarchy. He was referring to the export of uranium, and said that the trade union movement must stop the export of uranium. Fortunately for Australia the Labor Party and the trade union movement have since seen the error of his ways. This man who sets himself up as  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition finds himself totally isolated on that subject. Nevertheless he urged direct union action against government policy. What of the rights of the ordinary people? What of government rights having been elected on a platform which the people accepted? Is it right that a militant handful, representing perhaps 30 per cent of the trade union membership, which is the absolute maximum constituency for which they speak, can usurp the right to speak for the trade union movement? I question their right to speak when so many of them have not been elected by an acceptable democratic process. Upon what authority do they walk roughshod over the rights of the Australian people? In the  Australian  of 3 June 1976 thiseadline appeared: 
Strikers walk off for the fiftieth time. 
That was from a building project and we wonder why the Australian economy has gone into the doldrums. In the  Australian  of 22 July this headline appeared: 7000 jobs hang on bans decision. 
When a small group of people has the power to decide whether 7000 other men and women have the right to work where is democracy? What became of the rights of the majority? There is another headline: 
Union threat to stall Tasmanian shipping. 
We know the shambles and difficulties which Tasmania faces. The Government is well aware of those problems. But where lie the interests of this small extreme group of communist-led trade union officials who sabotage the Tasmanian people who go to the polls in a few days? What thanks can they give to honourable members opposite for their efforts? I quote from an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 3 September. The headline reads: 
Officer forced to pay men for not working. 
The article states: 
A shipping officer told a royal commission today that he had been forced to pay men who had not worked, and had also paid a port levy, payroll tax and insurance for the time they had not worked. 
Another headline reads: 
Air traffic controllers disrupt all airlines. 
The article referred to 1000 air traffic controllers who lodged a claim with the Public Service Board. It was rejected by the Board. What did they do? They went on strike, stopped every airline and caused confusion throughout Australia. Another headline referred to a dispute stopping work on a hospital in Tasmania. It was the State's largest building project. Another headline reads: 
Brewery men to strike over hours. 
-by leaveThere is a growing interest and concern in the community both in Australia and in other parliamentary democracies over Parliament's effective oversight of the Executive, especially in the field of public finance. The Commonwealth Parliament, on the initiative of Professor Bland, then member for Warringah, established the Joint Parliamentary Committee of Public Accounts in 1952. as a means by which the Parliament could assert its fundamental responsibility to exercise financial oversight of the Executive. The Committee has carried out its responsibilities since its inception in an atmosphere of bipartisan cooperation which is an essential prerequisite to enable it to examine matters of relevance to the Parliament regardless of the Government in power at the time. 
The Public Accounts Committee is a very active Committee as any of its former or present members will confirm. Since early March when members were appointed, the Eleventh Committee has held 32 meetings of which 44 were meetings of the full Committee and 8 were meetings of sectional committees. Eight meetings of the full Committee and two meetings of sectional committees were in relation to public inquiries in connection with the Auditor-General's report for 1974- 75, the Advance to the Treasurer for 1975- 76 and the operations of the Overseas Property Bureau. The departments from which the Committee has taken evidence during the year in connection with the Auditor-General's report and Treasurer's Advance include Aboriginal Affairs, Administrative Services, AttorneyGeneral's, Capital Territory, Construction, Defence, Education, Environment, Housing and Community Development, Foreign Affairs, Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, Industry and Commerce, National Resources, Overseas Trade, Prime Minister and Cabinet, Science and the Treasury. 
To carry out its responsibilities to the Parliament effectively the Committee believes it is imperative to maintain liaison with senior officials. Accordingly, the Committee held private discussions during the year with the Auditor-General, the Secretary to the Treasury, representatives from the Treasury and the Public Service Board and  Dr H.  C. Coombs,  Chairman  of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration, and  Sir Henry  Bland, then  Chairman  of the Administrative Review Committee. 
During the year the Committee presented 5 reports to the Parliament- the 157th report which related to the Auditor-General 's report for 1973-74, the 158th report which dealt with the Treasurer's Advance for 1974-75, the 159th report which presented Treasury Minutes on the 144th and 146th reports, the 160th report relating to expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund for 1974-75 and the 161st report which presented Treasury Minutes on the 152nd and 154th reports. The Committee visited the 
Australian Government Clothing Factory in connection with its inquiry into the AuditorGeneral's report for 1 974-75. 
The Committee also visited the Australian War Memorial for the purpose of inspecting the facilities available for the storage of exhibits. The Committee's interest was stimulated by comments made in the annual report of the Board of Trustees of the Memorial regarding the inadequacy of the facilities and the deterioration of exhibits. The Committee is concerned that Commonwealth assets conservatively valued at $ 100m are at some risk and expressed its concern to the Minister for Administrative Services. The Committee has been informed that the National Capital Development Commission has let 2 contracts for the design of new air-conditioning storage areas and conservation laboratories and that construction should commence in 1977-78. 
The Committee has announced that it proposes to conduct a general inquiry into the use of automatic data processing in the Commonwealth Public Service during 1977. In conducting its inquiry the Committee hopes to assess whether the growing tendency for the use of computers within departments and statutory authorities can be justified. Furthermore, the Committee proposes to examine the Executive's control over and procedures for the purchase of computers. The Committee has noted with some concern that existing procedures do not apply to statutory authorities. Consequently, although the Committee knows that at 30 June 1 975 the value of computers installed in departments was approximately $83m there is no available information on the extent of investment undertaken by statutory authorities in this type of equipment. The Committee believes that this is but one example of the fact that the Parliament does not exercise sufficient scrutiny over expenditure by statutory authorities. 
The Committee considers it important to maintain contact with officers of the Public Service. Accordingly, the  Chairman  has addressed the New South Wales Regional Group of the Royal Institute of Public Administration, the Canberra Chapter of the Institute of Internal Auditors and, together with  Mr V.  J. Martin, a seminar of Second Division Officers of the Commonwealth Public Service on the Administration's accountability to the Parliament and on the operations of the Public Accounts Committee. The Committee was also represented by  Mr J.  L. Armitage at the 1976 Autumn seminar of the Royal Institute of Public Administration on the subject of the co-ordination and implementation of government policy. 
The Committee is very conscious of the fact that about 40 per cent of all Commonwealth expenditure is now made through State Government departments or their agencies. Accordingly, the Committee is currently investigating the possibility of arranging a meeting between State and Commonwealth Public Accounts Committees to provide a forum to discuss common problems and the various methods, procedures and techniques adopted by the Committees and perhaps to achieve some coordination of effort to ensure that any waste in the expenditure of funds is kept to a minimum. 
A criticism has been levelled at the Public Accounts Committee from time to time that it places too much emphasis on departments spending their annual appropriations and that appropriations are spent to avoid appearing before the Committee. The Committee maintains that no such emphasis exists. The PAC as a general rule interests itself in departmental underspending only when it appears that the principles of estimating are not being followed or there is evidence of inefficiency. To demonstrate that underspending, as such, is not a critical factor when selecting departments for public inquiry, in 1974-75, 1786 appropriation items were underspent, of which 186 required an explanation to the Committee and 13 items only were selected for public inquiry. The Committee's attitude was further emphasised by its decision not to conduct an inquiry into underexpenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the 1975-76 financial year. In addition, since the 1970-71 year the Committee has included a statement in its annual report on expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund which clearly sets out its views on underexpenditure. The Committee's view is that continuing emphasis must be given by the Public Service Board and by departments to ensuring that officers in the Public Service are properly trained in financial matters and that their status is sufficiently recognised. 
The Committee appreciates the practical difficulties which the present economic circumstances pose for departments in the preparation of accurate and effective forward estimates of expenditure. Nevertheless, the Committee favours the concept of forward planning and the provision of forward estimates which under more normal conditions provide the Government with a comprehensive picture of financial commitments and plans based on existing and proposed policies. Accordingly, every effort should be made to make the forward estimates as accurate and realistic as possible to increase their effectiveness as a tool of economic planning. It is the Committee's hope that it will be able to give consideration to various matters relating to the form of the public accounts including, for example, an examination of the use of functional classifications of expenditure and one-line appropriations. 
The Committee is currently examining possible amendments to the Public Accounts Committee Act which will be recommended to the Government to up-date the Committee's current role. The Committee is concerned that it does not have specific power to examine the affairs of statutory authorities. The Committee also agrees with the report of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System that the Parliament does not conduct an adequate scrutiny of the Public Service in relation to personnel. Accordingly, another important amendment under consideration is to amend the duties of the Committee to include the responsibility for examining the annual reports of the Public Service Board and the Board's investigations carried out under the authority of section 1 7 of the Public Service Act. In this context the inclusion of the term 'Administration' in the Committee's title would appear appropriate. The Committee believes that time should be given for an annual debate in the Parliament on the Committee 's reports and activities as the Parliament is ultimately responsible to the electorate for the expenditure of funds by and the efficiency of Government. 
At the present time the Committee has 3 reports in the course of preparation, two of which relate to the inquiry into the Auditor-General's Report for 1974-75 and the inquiry into expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer 1975-76. These 2 reports will be presented early in the Autumn Session. The third report, relating to the inquiry into the financial administration of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, which has taken up a considerable amount of the eleventh Committee's time, after having been investigated by the ninth and tenth Committees, is nearing completion and it is expected that this report will also be tabled early in the Autumn Session of the Parliament. The inquiry relating to the operations of the Overseas Property Bureau is not yet completed. 
On behalf of the Committee I wish to thank the Secretary and staff of our secretariat for the conscientious manner in which they performed their duties during the year under review. All members of the Committee are well aware of the key role performed by our secretariat staff in enabling us to handle a very considerable work load, and I extend to them our sincere appreciation. 
-I direct a question to the Treasurer. The Treasurer will be aware that during the recess many and varied ideas were put forward by various people and organisations on how to improve the economy. Did any of these ideas strike a responsive chord in him? Does he intend using any of them? 
-The contribution made to this debate by members of the Opposition I think displayed very clearly to the House the depth of scepticism and suspicion which they have for the Public Service as a whole. I would like to preface my remarks by just trying to put this legislation in its true political and historical context. When the Labor Government came into power after 23 years in the political wilderness it believed quite definitely that the Public Service was against it; it had to be reformed at all costs. It was prepared to use the legislation as it then stood to achieve its objectives. Various speakers on the government side have already referred to a number of personnel who were appointed as First Division officers by the Labor Government of the day under circumstances which were regarded at the time as being antipathetic to the overall interests of the Public Service and certainly the political well-being of the nation. In fact, I think the point was rather clearly made by a journal called  Victorian Viewpoint,  which I understand to be the journal of the Victorian branch of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association. This is what it said about the political independence of the Public Service: 
The great danger to the Australian Public Service and of course to the public servant himself or herself arising from these appointments - 
That is, the appointments to which I have just referred- is the political independence of the Service which has always been held in the past to be beyond reproach. The question now being asked by sections of the Press and by the public is whether the political independence of the Public Service is being subordinated. The ultimate possibility arising from such appointments is that the public servant's promotional opportunities or even his security of office in the future may depend on his political affiliations and whichever party is in power. 
Of course, those remarks have to be seen in the context of the considerations of the average public servant with regard to his own permanent status in what he believes to be a career service. I personally have rather strong views about the excessive influence given to the concept of career appointments and permanent status in the Public Service. But the difficulty we are facing, especially at the top echelons, is quite simply that 
First Division officers responsible for departments obviously have a fundamental bearing not only on the quality of advice given to Ministers but also on the methodological approach of the department and of the officers below the permanent head as to how the instructions of Ministers and the Government will be carried out. Within that context, therefore, the actions of the Labor Party during its 3 years in office are explainable, although one may not necessarily accept the thesis upon which they were based. 
To say, however, that this legislation which we are debating today is somehow or other going to upset fundamentally a balance which obviously both sides of this House do not regard as being satisfactory is, quite frankly, overstating the case. I refer in particular to the Leader of the Opposition's concept of 2 tiers of First Division officers. I think it should be the view of all honourable members of the House that it is not an unreasonable expectation for people, both men and women, who have given a lifetime of service to the Australian people and to the Public Service of the Commonwealth that the system be based on the principle that those officers who have worked their way through the second and third divisions of the Service over a period of years and so gained substantial knowledge should be given the opportunity of being selected as First Division officers. On the other hand, it is quite obvious that the government of the day must have a capability of bringing people into the Public Service on the basis of merit- I em- phasise that point- even if those who have merit happen also to have a point of view similar to that of the government of the day. 
I submit that this legislation achieves both of those objectives. On the one hand, permanent officers of the Public Service will be eligible for these top positions and at the same time the Government, through the machinery established in this legislation, will be expecting the Committee made up of the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board plus at least 2 other permanent heads to take into account not only officers of the permanent Public Service but also other personnel in the private sector and elsewhere who may be nominated for positions in that context. The Bill also emphasises that if the results of that procedure are not considered to be satisfactory outside appointments may be made by the Prime Minister through the machinery which is also established in the legislation. In other words, we have a considerable degree of flexibility. That is something which the existing legislation quite obviously does not give us. 
The provisions under the existing arrangements are twofold: Firstly, a Minister on assuming office is stuck with whoever he has as the head of his department and, secondly, he may, through the Executive Council and with the approval of the Governor-General, bring in other personnel. But the weakness in the present arrangement is that the concept of permanency, which was obviously defined initially to refer to public servants who worked their way up through the Service, is also then applied to personnel brought in from outside. They are brought in, as I have stated, essentially because the government of the day presumes that it cannot find personnel of that level who can adequately carry out its political dictates and wants to bring in outsiders. Having done that, however, it is illogical to suggest that those people should then be given the full rights and privileges of permanency as would be given to any other members of the Public Service if they have not had a similar background. That is one of the major factors in this legislation. 
It has been stated, for example, in clause 25 that those who are removed after a period of 5 years, if they are not public servants, should be given a necessary honorarium and so forth, all of which- I emphasise this point- will be public knowledge because it will be gazetted for anybody to read. So there will be no deals under the table and so forth. The second category of people- those who are permanent public servants under the normal definition of the wordswill have the right of being able to return to a position equivalent to that which they held previously. The legislation takes into account the not infrequent possibility that an officer of the Second Division or an officer of the Third Division- in fact this was the situation with one of the Whitlam appointments initially- would be in a position where his career spectrum would be taken into account in relation to the position to which he would return following his removal from the First Division. 
The Labor Government was aware, upon assuming office, that the Public Service Act made no provision whatsoever for the termination of the appointment of a permanent head on any grounds other than those narrowly defined such as inefficiency. As a result of this the Whitlam Government, for example, appointed no fewer than 3 ambassadors in Geneva representing Aus.tralian interests in Europe. They were all very fine gentlemen, but surely this was an expensive way to solve the problem. Other officers were sent on extended leave because there was simply no position to which the Government of the day wished to appoint them. This situation was created because the Act that time made no adequate provision for the termination of those First Division appointments. 
Regrettably in a sense, but quite understandably, the amendments now proposed in this legislation will not cover existing appointments to the First Division of the Public Service; but at least these amendments go a substantial way towards ensuring that those situations will not be created in the future. After all, the government of the day does have a responsibility to ensure that officers who are earning salaries in excess of $40,000 a year are actively employed at all times while they are being paid from the public purse. 
Within this context I should like to make reference also to section 25 placitum (2) of the Public Service Act. There is a growing tendency in the Public Service, especially at the First Division level, for officers to place too much emphasis on the policy aspects of their responsibilities and insufficient emphasis on the administrative and financial affairs of their departments. In the United Kingdom, for example, the equivalent to a First Division officer is, m every sense of the term, the 'senior finance officer' and he ultimately is responsible for everything that takes place within his department and is, of course, answerable for its activities to his Minister and to the Parliament. Under our legislation, however, First Division officers do have the delegation to pass most of their administrative powers on to more junior officers in the department who are held responsible for any misdemeanours that take place. I believe that this is a section of the Act which wil have to be amended. I am aware that the Auditor-General is currently examining this matter. 
If the emphasis which the Opposition wishes to place upon this legislation is that we are attempting to politicise the Public Service, I refuse to accept that criticism on the ground that we are trying to prevent the recurrence of a situation which existed for a period of 3 years whereby appointments were made to the Public Service on fundamentally political grounds. Those appointments had a very serious effect upon the morale of public servants and thereby upon the capacity of the Public Service to serve the government of the day. There were too many examples of junior officers, in particular, realising that the way to success, even in the Public Service context, was by pleasing their political masters. I do not suggest for a minute that this trend will ever go away. It is a fact of life that some ambitious men and women will take a short cut wherever they can. 
The fact remains that this legislation represents the first attempt that has been made to overcome what has become in recent years a very serious problem. When the Public Service Act was originally drawn up, in 1922, the concepts of the permanent status of public servants and an apolitical Public Service were very real. As pointed out by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr  E. G. Whitlam) and agreed by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  and by myself, the fact of the matter is that public servants today are able to express their political views, as does every other citizen of the country. What is important is to ensure that their personal views are not allowed to be reflected in the quality of the advice which they give to Ministers or in the manner in which they carry out their responsibilities. I commend this legislation to the House. 
-As a member of this House I am delighted to have the opportunity to be associated with the passage of the Address-in-Reply to  Her  Majesty's Speech. While the economy remains a major matter of national importance, it is by no means the only subject which should involve this Parliament. We have reached an emotional watershed in Australia's history. I am concerned that there appears to be a growing national malaise. Perhaps our very affluence has robbed our people of ambition and in its place we hear with monotonous regularity the litany of what is the Government going to do about every problem whether it be large or small? It is a fundamental contradiction for people to speak of a society based on free enterprise and individual initiative while at every opportunity seeking the involvement of the Government and then complaining that taxes are too high and that the creeping hand of government interference pervades all. The alternative is for people to be prepared to do more for themselves. There is an obvious equationless or more efficient services equal less taxes. The people must make this decision for themselves. 
I believe national and personal goals tend to lack perspective, for too long governments of all colours have tried to encourage people to believe that the objective of their existence is to obtain greater quantities of physical possessions. In fact, our affluence has made today's luxuries tomorrow's standard goods. But the tragedy of all this is the disappointment of achieving goals based entirely on possessions. Workers and management alike have been encouraged to think that provided their profit is greater this year than last, and provided the income per worker is higher than previously, that with the effluxion of time all must be well. But the experience of 3 years of Labor above all else demonstrated the fallacy of that case. With the expenditure of over $3,000m on education alone, with the acceptance of the right of all people to have a high standard of education- one must question education for itself or education for specific jobs- we have still failed to find many so called educated people work commensurate with their conception of their abilities. Therefore we have allowed frustration to become a dangerous element in society. 
Despite its desire to attain high educational standards society has failed to decide who is going to be around to do the menial jobs. We cannot all go to universities, nor should we. We cannot all achieve a status in society. But we still want our community services and there is a certain level at which a machine cannot do this type of work. It has become quite clear that we need a manpower planning policy which can be applied in Australia. That is one of the objectives of the present Government through its inquiry into education, one of the objectives of which is to examine whether people are going to be available and trained for the jobs which hopefully will be present in the economy in future. The real problem is that we are running the risk of allowing people to be super educated yet at the same time unemployed.  President  Lincoln once said: 
If we first know where we are and whither we are tending, we could better judge what to do and how to do it. 
We know that geography and history have placed Australia in a clearly defined relationship with the rest of the world. We also know that we have clear comparative cost advantages, especially in primary and mineral production. Because of our excessive fear born in our isolation from the other Western countries of Europe and North America and from the impact of 2 world wars we have allowed ourselves to believe, almost as a matter of holy writ, that somehow or other we must become a virtually totally self-sufficient people. This tendency is all too simplistic to be allowed to continue. We expect the world to buy from us but apparently we do not have to buy from the world, and we believe that behind our high tariff barriers we can continue with the fallacy that it we give enough protection to enough industries jobs can be found for all regardless of the cost and regardless of the limited size of the Australian market and of the high cost structure which makes it difficult in many areas of production to sell abroad. 
It is perhaps a peculiarity of our Westminster system that governments and oppositions rarely agree about major national policy objectives, yet there has been a consensus for many years, among the Australian people at least, that they expect from their governments near full employment. To achieve this it is quite obvious that jobs must be generated, and employees given a sense of confidence in the future, and here of course we have a division of philosophy. Successive Liberal-National Country Party governments have believed, and rightly so, that the private sector which generates most of the goods and services used by the Australian people must be the source of major employment opportunities. The Opposition, on the other hand, being more tied to a dogmatic socialist approach, has tried to have a foot in both camps. It wishes to build up a strong government sector as it attempted to do between 1972 and 1975. By its pace-setting policies it was largely responsible for pricing many Australian workers out of their jobs. Yet the absurdity of this whole exercise rests on the fact that governments alone cannot create jobs which are uneconomic and expect the Australian taxpayer to pay the difference indefinitely. 
I believe there is evidence to sustain my belief that at this time in our nation's history there is a great opportunity for the major political parties, ibr management and for unions in particular to reach a consensus that the future welfare of our citizens will depend to a large extent on giving them the opportunity to work and thereby to live productive and useful lives. Agreed guidelines must be achieved to make this possible. I am not one of those who take the view that everybody in a pluralistic society has to work, but I certainly believe that those who do not wish to work have no right to expect their fellow Australians to support them in their life style indefinitely. Much has been said here tonight about the need to make people work in return for unemployment benefits. In this regard may I suggest that consideration be given to establishing in Australia an unemployment insurance scheme on the German model which requires the worker as well as management and the state to make a contribution to the fund. In return the voluntarily unemployed are expected to take whatever jobs are offered to them or risk losing their benefits. The Germans also have a form of national service in a civilian capacity for those who cannot find work within the normal structure of the economy. 
The Government might do well to consider the re-establishment of a somewhat improved Regional Employment Development scheme under which it could offer to local government bodies the equivalent of the unemployment benefit in return for jobs being given to the unemployed. From the soundings I have made with local government I believe that there is some prospect that some thousands of young people in particular could be employed, if only on a part time basis, in activities of general use to the community. Perhaps consideration could also be given to trading off the 40 per cent depreciation allowances against a cut by the States in their pay-roll tax thus picking up the marginally unemployed. The Government is to be applauded for the scheme which it has introduced to overcome this most pressing problem, but regrettably we are facing the probability that unless we are prepared to accept fairly radical changes in the industrial profile of Australia, full employment could well be a dream of the past. As has been clearly pointed out by previous speakers, the unskilled workers in particular were priced out of employment through the policies of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the previous Labor Government. Even the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  realised this when he said in January 1975: 
As long as wage demands continue to cut profits, then there is going to be unemployment in Australia. Every excessive increase in income for one man takes the job of another man. 
Those words have proved to be so true. The average employer is well aware of the fact that the unskilled unit of labour is more expensive than investing in plant and machinery, which does not go on strike, which does not require holidays nor 17 per cent loadings. Who can blame him? The clear lesson of the Industrial Revolution has been that where men are naive enough to believe that they can pit themselves against machines they have always lost. 
I have no doubt that we shall see a continuing trend towards greater technological innovation in Australia in the decades ahead. Australian industry associated with a greater reduction in employment opportunities, especially for the unskilled, showed quite clearly in the census of 1954 where 38.9 per cent of all labour employed was in the manufacturing industry. In the last census of 1975 this had fallen to a mere 32.6 per cent. It is significant that the rural sector's requirements for labour fell from 15.1 per cent to 7.9 per cent over the same period, but unlike secondary industry there was a far greater increase in productivity. On the other hand, employment in the tertiary sector increased substantially. In 1954 it was 45.9 per cent and in 1975 it had grown to 59.4 per cent, an increase of over 14 per cent in that period. Quite obviously what we are going to require is a more technologically trained population- people who can compete in a highly computerised world and take their place in the many and varied service industries which will continue to grow as the demands of a more complex society expand. 
The problems that I have outlined must also be seen as challenges to our nation's future. If the estimates in the Borrie report prove to be correct, Australia has not only a seriously declining birth rate approaching zero population growth but with it a progressively older population. This must require more capital intensive industries in the future, and the only prospect of changing the trend would appear to be the reintroduction of a much more positive immigration policy combined with family development policies to encourage more, young people to have larger families. Even this will not change the fact that with an ageing population we will require new policies and new opportunities to enable that section of our people to live a meaningful life. While the current trend is towards early retirement, it may well be necessary to reverse this trend in the future. 
Our technological revolution which has taken man to the moon and into space has brought with .it fundamental changes in our lifestyle. Regrettably, in this country at least, there does not appear to have been any substantial development of our vision, or a consensus among our national leaders. I refer to not only political leaders but to commercial leaders and leaders from virtually every other section of our community. We must seek to develop our national resources for the benefit of Australians and ultimately for the world. This does not mean that we should simply sell raw materials for others to manufacture and sell back to us at higher prices. Surely in the areas of processing of minerals and agricultural products there is potential for both capital investment and job opportunities. I am firmly of the view that in the past we have failed to use our comparative cost advantages to the maximum extent possible. Within this context every effort must be made to encourage management to be more imaginative. As I said earlier, free enterprise should not mean protection from the Government at every turn any more than freedom means licence. Similarly, management today, together with labour, have a responsibility to encourage job interest and to build up self respect and dignity in the work place. 
Employees at all levels, not just the executive, should be encouraged to identify themselves with the company that employs them. Surely Fletcher Jones is an outstanding example of what can be done in this regard. 
Despite the enormous achievements of our nation in the last 25 years and despite our extremely high standard of living compared with many countries, the Henderson report identified areas of major concern and deficiencies in the social welfare structure, This was despite the universal philosophy of spending money on welfare. In 1976-77 all levels of government spending reached $2,339 for every man woman and child in this country, out of which social welfare alone accounted for over 30 per cent. This should have taught us the same lesson as we found in the field of education, which I noted earlier, that often massive financial expenditure does not equate with efficiency of service or with equality of opportunity. Today there are still some one million people in this land who are living below the poverty line. The introduction by the Government of family allowances and the new experimental housing allowance voucher program for housing are major initiatives to give money to those people in need with a minimum of bureaucratic interference in the hope that by helping those in need directly we are giving them dignity, self respect and the opportunity to decide for themselves how this assistance should be spent. 
Among the many benefits which we have as Australian citizens is the fact that this whole continent belongs to one nation alone. In that respect we are unique but time is not on our side. Unless all Australians are prepared to start thinking of themselves as pieces in the mosaic of the nation, we run the very real risk of wasting our precious human assets in futile internal strife in a world in which the gaps between rich and poor are growing day by day and in which a nation's right to exist will not depend on the rule of law so much as on the might of its right arm. 
Much has been said in the past about Australia 's low productivity and that Australians are lazy and will not work. This is a judgment which I for one do not accept. However, it is worth keeping in mind that the average Australian worker today is supposed to work 40 hours a week. How many could truthfully say that they do that while being perfectly happy to take their 4 weeks annual leave, plus 17 per cent holiday bonus, plus one week long service leave per year and probably 2 weeks sick leave per year. In addition there are some 24 public holidays per annum. Thus the average employer has to pay for some 12 weeks during the year when, in fact, there is zero productivity. As a nation we have an obvious choice. We can expect a higher standard of living with low productivity, higher deficits and higher inflation and the ultimate collapse of our nation, or we can equate our sense of achievement with higher living standards and higher productivity. At this time, lower wage demands are essential more in keeping with the capacity of the economy to absorb them. 
I now turn to the question of defence and foreign policy. The Government must be congratulated on its publication of the White Paper on a defence policy for Australia. Nevertheless care must be taken to ensure that there is an appropriate match between policy and the availability of forces to put it into effect. At the present time, because of financial restraints, there are some difficulties in this area. For example, there is a real danger of the replacement syndrome becoming too evident in our repurchasing policies. The mere need to maintain or upgrade the state of the art should not be taken as the  raison d'etre  for buying equipment simply because our major allies also have it. The size and physical characteristics of our continent require a unique defence capacity which cannot be achieved simply by grafting onto accepted doctrines  ad hoc  concepts which may or may not meet our requirements. It must not be forgotten that in our purchase program, due to the Labor Government's deliberate decision to cancel arrangements made by the McMahon Government in 1972, we are now some 4 years behind in the purchase and resupply of desperately needed equipment for our armed forces. Although the Government has announced that $ 12,000m will be spent towards this objective, the continuing unsatisfactory level of inflation both here and abroad could well mean that additional funds will be required if we are to meet even our most basic requirements for new equipment. Vital decisions for all 3 Services have yet to be made, and foremost among these of course is the question of a fighter replacement for the air force. 
There is nothing more certain than that in the ultimate analysis the Australian people alone will be responsible for the safety and security of our land. The perspective in which Australia's defence needs to be examined cannot ignore the relationship between the great powers or the likely impact of changing circumstances in South East Asia, the Pacific and the Indian Ocean areas in particular. As Australians we must continue to be vitally concerned about the welfare of our neighbours. With the virtual removal of the United States defence umbrella from South East Asia, the continuing incursions being made into Thailand from both Laos and Cambodia, the reemergence of a clandestine communist movement in Malaysia and the potential problems which could emerge in Indonesia, it is abundantly clear that Australia cannot cut itself off from the region in which we must form a part. The Government's aid programs are but one manifestation of our continuing interest in the welfare of these peoples. But the trend announced by  President  Carter in his decision that in future United States aid will be predicated by the requirement that recipients maintain acceptable standards of human rights could well prove to be an initiative of the greatest significance which Australia will have to watch with considerable interest. It is far too simplistic to divide the world into communist and non-communist powers and to take the view that was taken during the Dulles era that the Free World included such outstanding despots as Papa Doc of Haiti and the military dictatorships of Latin America. Today, of course, we have similarities with General Amin in Uganda. While countries like ours espouse the view that states should not interfere in the domestic affairs of others, there is obviously a point where, if the crocodiles are allowed to run amok, it will not be long before their appetites seek for prey on the other side of the river. Surely the world learnt this lesson from the rise of Adolf Hitler. Undoubtedly there will be others. We have reached a watershed in our history. It will be for future generations to judge how best we handled it. 
-Is the Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade aware of reports that the solar research team of the University of Sydney has made a significant breakthrough in the application of solar energy which could be of particular relevance to the mining industry? Are Professor Butler's comments in yesterday's  Australian  regarding the inadequacy of research funds correct? Will the Minister recommend to the Government that solar energy research receive a high priority for research funds? In his capacity as Minister for Overseas Trade, will he take action to ensure that the rights to Australian inventions are made available for the development of this nation before being sold abroad? 
-As chairman I present the 162nd report of the Joint Committee on Public Accounts. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave to make a statement on the report. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) With respect to pensions and benefits paid under the Reciprocal Agreement on Social Security between Australia and the United Kingdom, are any supplementary or topping-up benefits paid by the Commonwealth to persons eligible for United Kingdom benefits who are resident in Australia. 
If so, (a) for which classes of benefits are such payments made, (b) how much is the supplement in each case, (c) how is the size of the supplement and qualification for it determined, (d) what is the cost to revenue of providing the supplements and (e) how many persons resident in Australia receive benefits and pensions under the agreement in each category of benefits. 
I wish to speak tonight in favour of the proposition that the Government, at an appropriate time when the economic situation is somewhat more beneficial than it is at present, should establish a national memorial in Canberra. Every nation needs an amalgam of folklore, history and symbols on which to build a national identity. However many Australians, especially the younger ones, appear to have some difficulty in identifying with the substance of our heritage and migrant communities coming from many older nations than ours have faced a similar problem. These people need to be able to identify themselves with the wealth which has been given to this nation by the individual contributions of many of our citizens in the past. In fact, our history has been created by many outstanding personalities. It is worth keeping in mind the fact that the British have their Westminster Abbey, the French their Pantheon, and the Americans their Arlington. But our country is significantly bereft of national monuments which enable Australians to associate their nation's past with the present and the future. 
I suggest that the Government would do a great service to the Australian people, both present and future generations, if it agreed to the establishment in Canberra of a national memorial on an appropriate site such as the slopes of Mount Ainslie behind the War Memorial and overlooking the Parliamentary Triangle. I envisage that in a garden setting would be laid the remains of many outstanding men and women who have, since 1 788, played such a major role in the foundation and the later development of this nation. Recent reports concerning the condition of Caroline Chisholm 's grave in Great Britain and the recollection that I have of the graves of various other people, essentially in Great Britain, leads me to conclude that merely putting a wreath on their tombs occasionally is not really a fitting indication of the fact that this nation owes much to them. For example, Arthur Phillip is in the Church of St Nicholas in Bathampton;  Sir Joseph  Banks is in Heston Church, near Hounslow in Essex; William Balmain is in the Church of St Giles in the Field, London; Caroline Chisholm is in Northampton; Mathew Flinders is at St James Church, Hampstead Road, London; Lachlan Macquarie is on his estate at Mull in Scotland; and, last but not least, the much maligned figure of William Bligh is in St Mary's, Lambeth Palace. They are but a small sample of the many people who are to be found not only in Great Britain but elsewhere and who I think we could do well to consider returning to these shores. 
It is worth keeping in mind that some 200 000 Australians visit the Australian War Memorial annually. That demonstrates a need which many people have for some concept of our historical roots, where we came from and, hopefully, where we are going. However, I think it would be wrong if people were encouraged to believe that a nation's identity has been formed solely on the field of battle. I envisage that a national memorial would contain also the remains of the early explorers such as Blaxland, Lawson, perhaps even Wentworth, if the present honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  would allow us to have him there, Hume, Hovell, Sturt and many others; the fathers of Federation such as Parkes, Forrest, Barton; outstanding military leaders such as General Monash and  Sir Thomas  Blarney; and of course all Victoria Cross winners of the past and the present. The arts and letters could be represented by such outstanding Australians as Dame Nellie Melba, Banjo Paterson and, of course, many other people who have made such a great contribution in the past. 
-Of course, Henry Lawson, C. J. Dennis and many others; the list is indefinite. What I suggest is that the Government should at least consider the principle of establishing such a national memorial and, perhaps with the assistance of the National Heritage Commission and the National Trust, a committee could be established to investigate fairly soon precisely where many of our pioneers are buried. So, when funds are made available, the appropriate movement can take place. I believe that this project would not be unduly expensive as the land is available in areas of Canberra. Maintenance and reinterment of the remains of early pioneers would be the main expense, but I envisage that many families would be happy to cooperate if they knew that their ancestors or relatives were to be given a place of national honour. I believe that although Australia is still a young country, we cannot afford to ignore our heritage. The fabric of the nation has been woven by millions of Australians over succeeding generations and it is surely appropriate that those who have made an outstanding contribution should not be forgotten. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science on 23 March 1977, upon notice: 
What research has been or is being done in the field known as ' genetic engineering ' in Australia. 
What has the cost been to the Commonwealth in each of the financial years in which the work has been undertaken. 
I am pleased to rise in support of the Government on this occasion. The numerous assertions made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  lead me to conclude that he is like the Bourbons, referred to by Talleyrand- he has learned nothing and forgotten nothing. He has given us, with no doubt his accustomed attention to detail, a list of the achievements of his Administration. In that sense he has forgotten nothing. What he has not learnt is that a nation 's capacity to give either to its own people or, through its foreign assistance programs, to others is fundamentally dictated by the size of the national revenue and by the wealth of the nation. I do not wish on this occasion to talk about the regrettable economic shambles which we inherited, but it would be absurd for me to continue in defence of the Government's foreign aid policies unless I emphasised once again, that our inheritance in December 1975 made it essential that all areas of government expenditure be very carefully examined and, where necessary, reduced. 
Much has been made of the allegation that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  allegedly supported the establishment of the aid agency when he was the Opposition spokesman on foreign affairs. Although that is correct he in fact said that adequate consultation and in particular co-ordination of aid programs caused him some concern and he doubted the AADA would improve this. On the same occasion when I had the privilege of leading for the then Opposition in the debate I am reported in  Hansard  as saying: 
I am seriously concerned that the proposed aid agency will become little more than a body responsible for the implementation of aid programs that are decided upon by other agencies of government. If this should be the case it is questionable whether the establishment of a separate agency is really justified, lt can be justified only if it has an effective co-ordinating role. I doubt whether the Agency as presently planned and staffed is able to carry out such as important function. 
Events have proved without any doubt that the fears I expressed on that occasion were justified. I also on that occasion castigated the then Government for the vagueness with which it had tried to enunciate its foreign aid intentions. I might just make a point in terms of staffing. The aid agency at its prime, if I may use that expression, had a staff of 730. The new organisation has a staff of 550. But we must also recall that when the original concept of the agency was put forward, I believe by  Dr Wilenski,  the private secretary to the then Prime Minister, the intention was not for the Government to establish some massive organisation but rather that there should be a small group of expert and dedicated people who could advise the government on the best manner in which to carry out its aid programs. For various reasons, no doubt now lost in the various files of the Public Service Board and other places, it was decided to add to the original organisation virtually the entire staff of the then Department of External Territories because nobody knew what to do with them as Papua New Guinea approached independence. That is a fact of administrative history. Surely nobody in the Opposition apart from their leader would attempt to assert that by merely adding personnel to an aid agency we will necessarily have a more effective aid policy. Nor can anyone in the Opposition today assert with any justification that by attempting at all costs to reach an aid- to be in dollar terms 0.7 per cent of gross national product the figure quoted rightly by the Leader of the Opposition as the target for the second development decade- we will have a more constructive, better organised and a more efficient system of aid distribution. What is abundantly clear is that when the decision was taken on the target of 0.7 per cent of GNP to be reached over a decade there was no indication that the world would enter the economic malaise that has befallen most countries over the last 3 years. I am sure I can say that on the basis of the present international situation, it is highly unlikely that any country will achieve the target contribution of 0.7 per cent. Despite this, the present Liberal-National Country Party Government has emphasised on many occasions that our intention in this regard remains clear. It is our objective to increase our aid commitment as far as we can possibly do so, keeping in mind the fact that we have to run the Australian economy, deal with the numerous social welfare problems that we have in Australia, as well as pull our weight internationally and assist those countries, many of which are far worse off than ourselves. It is a question of competing interests. The objective of government of any political colour must always be to come up with the best formula to meet competing ends available at the time. 
As I said in my opening remarks, we had no part in the creation of the economic situation that we inherited, but it is certainly our fundamental responsibility to see that the funds of Australian taxpayers are spent as efficiently as possible, both in terms of our domestic policies and our foreign assistance policies. In fact the Government has a very positive attitude to development assistance. 
The major Australian aid programs since 1949 were created by Liberal-Country Party governments. We have continuously recognised Australia's responsibility to assist the economic and social development of the Third World countries. We believe that this can best be achieved through the transfer to those countries of Australian resources and technology on the best concessional terms available and that we are able to achieve. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has emphasised on numerous occasions the unquestionable right of all human beings, regardless of their colour, creed or where they live in the world, to a life free of poverty and a decent standard of living. I might add that they are also entitled to a fair share of the world's resources. The gap between rich and poor is growing day by day. It is worth remembering that the vast majority of the world 's population has an annual gross income of less than $200. This remains one of the central issues of international relations. It is for that reason that a new world economic order has been proposed through the United Nations. It has been put forward and accepted in principle by all countries, rich and poor alike. What we have yet to see however is whether the acceptance in principle will in the years to come result in an effective transfer of resources. 
Our aid programs represent a real transfer of resources from Australia, from the Australian public, from the taxpayers of this land to those people and countries far less well endowed than ourselves. But as I emphasised before, there are competing demands, and it is utterly irresponsible for the Opposition to stand up in this place with its shocking record of 3 years in government and tell us that we are not meeting any of these requirements to a satisfactory extent. In fact in the last financial year in monetary terms we increased our aid by nearly 15 per cent to around $400m. Of course that is not enough. Of course we want to give more aid, but if we give more international assistance it means less funds for Australian projects and it means less funds for all the other competing needs which have to be met in the Australian community. 
Nevertheless Australia's aid as a proportion of gross domestic product remains around 0.5 per cent. That compares more than favourably with the average of other Western countries, at only 0.36 per cent. We can hold our head up high. We have certainly nothing to be ashamed of in this field. Nevertheless the Government is well aware of the fact that Australia's geographic location at the southern end of the South East Asian chain means that we must face the reality that our surrounding neighbours live with extremely low gross domestic products, low per capita incomes and high population growth rates. The low foreign exchange earnings of those nations and the huge foreign debts which they have regrettably had to run up since independence will continue to remain a major difficulty in their overall economic welfare. 
It is for this reason, and a most commendable one at that, that all parties in this Parliament have consistently abided by the concept that Australian aid should remain untied. We do not wish it to be said that in giving assistance to these nations we necessarily expect something in return. We are certainly not asking for a rate of interest, which in fact would only increase the total loan commitment upon nations, many of which are unable to meet the capital, much less the interest repayments. 
Nevertheless among our special achievements since taking office no doubt pride of place must be given to the major increases in our bilateral aid to Papua New Guinea and the South Pacific in particular. In the first case our commitment to Papua New Guinea guarantees to that nation that we will spend over a 5-year period commencing in 1976-77 at least $930m. That is our commitment and that is our intention. In addition we have made a commitment of some $60m in bilateral aid to the countries of the South Pacific also over a 3-year period commencing in 1 976. That represents about 4 times what we spent in the previous 3 years. Yet the Leader of the Opposition had the audacity to say that we have not been pulling our weight in this area since we came into government. 
It is a fact of history that successive Australian governments did not in my opinion give enough assistance to the South Pacific, but that must be seen within the context of the historic circumstances of the time. Most of those states were colonies. They are now emerging to or have reached independence. Our relationship with them is therefore fundamentally different. As they reach independence Australia, as the major country in this part of the world, under this Government will most certainly be prepared to accept its full responsibilities in that regard. In per capita terms Australian aid to all our recipients remains at a very high level. Indonesia, for example, our nearest and most populous neighbour, will receive no less than $86m over the next 3 years on a rolling fund basis. This will facilitate forward planning both by the Indonesian Government and by the Australian aid authorities. As 1 have noted, our South Pacific assistance is also on a rolling fund basis. The advantages of this are quite clear. It means that the recipient governments will know in advance of their projects precisely how much financial assistance will be available to assist them in this regard. 
The basis of the bilateral aid program under this Government is essentially to use Australian resources, know how, training, consultancy services etc. as it is important both in terms of our impact on recipient countries and to assure the world that what we are doing is identifiably Australian. I must emphasise that Australian aid is directed to making an effective contribution to the economic and social development of all recipient countries. That remains and must always be our first consideration. Consequently some 97 per cent of our aid has been in grant form, and that is how it should be. 
We believe that our aid will be of greatest benefit if it is concentrated on sectors that are critical to the development strategy of the recipient governments. This, in our part of the world, represents the rural sector. We must make sure our aid is wide-ranging in terms of the activities it covers and that it covers infrastructure development, agriculture, animal health and nutrition; the areas in fact in which this nation over the years has managed to achieve a pre-eminent position in the world. It is obvious that countries with a considerable degree of expertise in technology, scientific achievements and agriculture should be in a position to transfer their technology to developing countries. This is one of the fundamental objectives of our aid policy. 
We recognise that in the long term the world food shortage will be overcome only through increased agricultural production. The people of the developing world cannot achieve a reduction in the rate of their births in relation to the rate of their deaths until they have some expectation that they can have employment, security and sufficient food. Many millions probably do not have a full meal in an entire week. Until those objectives can be achieved it is very difficult to expect that there will be a fundamental reduction in the birth rate of the world and that the developing countries will be able to overcome their fundamental problems. Let it be noted that the Australian Government under the present Administration will do all in its power to make sure that Australia continues to pull its full weight in helping to overcome the major development problems of our fellow human beings. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
How many persons previously excluded from pensions or benefits because they failed the means test have now qualified for pensions or benefits as a result of the introduction of the income test. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What is the cost of replacing the means test with the income test on each of the pensions and benefits paid by the Department of Social Security. 
-For the past hour a small- nay, a miniscule- number of members of the Opposition who are prepared to walk out of step with the leader of their Party, who to say the least has taken a statesman-like approach to this matter, have done everything they can to prevent this Parliament from debating a matter of the utmost national importance, namely, the need for active support from all sections of the community to ensuring the effectiveness of the prices and wages freeze agreed to last Wednesday by 6 Premiers and the Prime Minister of Australia  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Without question, the decision taken last Wednesday will go down as one of the most significant economic decisions made by any Premiers Conference. All Australians should help to ensure that the decisions taken by that Conference succeed- decisions which were taken on a voluntary basis. I must stress that point. Accordingly workers, and employers, all sections of the Australian community who seriously wish to see the defeat of inflation in our land must start with a voluntary prices and incomes freeze which will break the intolerable nexus which we have experienced for 3 years at least, by which constant increases in wage costs have been followed by even higher increases in other costs and thus higher and higher prices for consumers. 
On this very rare occasion last Wednesday the Premiers and the Australian Government agreed to a voluntary 3 months halt in price and wage increases. They agreed that such restraint was  urgently needed if Australia was to overcome its current economic difficulties. All heads of government intend to approach employers and professional organisations and put to them the proposal that their membership should voluntarily commit themselves to a pause for a period of 3 months from increases in the prices of their goods and services. It is further proposed that immediately following this agreement there should be a voluntary general pause from increases in prices and incomes and that approaches will be made to the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal for the implementation of the general pause. Governments including local government have agreed to commit themselves not only to not increasing their own charges during that period but also to doing all they can to encourage other sections of the community to do likewise. 
This should not be a political exercise. It is above politics because the Premiers, irrespective of the party to which they belong, came to Canberra and signed this agreement. I seek the indulgence of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  the release put out by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Premiers giving the terms of their agreement. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) Was $76,186 paid to various university professors for quasi-legal advice in 1975-76. 
) Was Professor Colin Howard of the University of Melbourne, then employed as a Special Adviser to the former Attorney-General, paid $33,387 for such advice in 1 975-76. 
Is the Government contractually bound to pay Professor Howard a further $20,000 for 1976-77; if so, on what matters will the Professor's advice be sought. 
On what issues has Professor Howard's advice-been sought during his employment as a Special Adviser.  I 
Is this the same Professor Howard who made public pronouncements of support for the former Whitlam Government at the time of the 1 975 double dissolution. 
If so, did Professor Howard at that time publicly disclose the nature of his employment by the Whitlam Government. 
-As Chairman, I present the 163rd report of the Joint Committee of" Public Accounts. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave to make a statement. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What would be the net cost to revenue after taxation if the income test on age pensions was abolished for each of the following categories of pensioners: (a) age 69, (b) age 68, (c) age 67, (d) age 66 and (e) age 63. 
-As Chairman, I present the 164th report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave to make a statement. 
I rise to speak about a subject of intense importance and interest to many people in Australia, in particular a large segment of the student population of some 250 000 people who are forced to pay some $700,000 annually towards the political activities of the Australian Union of Students. Having served as a representative on the Students Representative Council of the University of Sydney- in the days when it was affiliated with the NUAUS- I have had some experience of university politics. I firmly believe that it is the right of every student and every person living in this democratic society to be able to pursue beliefs and interests providing they do not affect the interests of others. The major problem in terms of the AUS is that in recent years it has become virtually the plaything of a small, dedicated and highly skilled group of extreme socialists, Trotskyists, Maoists, Communists, anarchists and every other possible combination and permutation one may care to mention. The result has been that the vast majority of university students, through the existing electoral system for the AUS, have not had a fair opportunity to have their point of view heard in the councils of that organisation. 
It has been demonstrated that the 80 or so personnel actually employed as paid officers of the AUS have been able to apply their political ideologies on the councils of the AUS to the extent that delegates from the universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and higher schools of learning in Australia represented on the AUS have not had the opportunity to have a contrary point of view heard. Many of these difficulties were highlighted by the last budget of the AUS passed at its conference in January last year. In the time available to me I shall refer to some of the items for which funds were allocated. Any man or woman who cares to listen to or read this speech should consider carefully whether they believe that the views expressed by the AUS in fact represent, as they allege, the majority view of students in Australia which has not been tested. One factor is abundantly clear. The emphasis of the AUS, despite the fact that it is supposed to be orientated towards the welfare of Australian students, has in recent years become more clearly identified with the interests of people and groups who have no affinity whatsoever with Australian university students, their interests or the interests of this nation. In reply to a series of letters to the  Australian,  the AUS stated in the same paper on 2 1 September: 
Broadly speaking the objectives of the Union are to promote the educational welfare and political objectives of students. The constitution of the AUS specifically defines these objectives. 
That is absolutely correct. The letter emphasised the words 'broadly speaking'. Within which the union has put an elephant throught the eye of a needle. In the budget for this financial year the AUS has declared its support for the creation of a socialist Australian society in terms of democratic institutions. It supports actions aimed at democratising the workplace, schools, tertiary institutions, community organisations and the organs of the State. It naturally opposes any move by State or Federal authorities to interfere with the present structure of student unions. I wonder why? Its support for democracy extends to everything except, of course, the AUS itself. For example the entire delegation from Sydney University was required at the last conference to follow the dictates of three out of five elected representatives. 
I now refer to some of the items in the Australian budget for overseas organisations and interests. I note with a degree of sympathy on my part that, $3,500 was made available for the maintenance of the Fretilin office for Timor. Another interesting subject was Malaya News Service. I should have thought it was Malaysia. Nevertheless, the union calls it Malaya. This organisation was created for the establishment of a socialist Malaysia. The AUS supports the continued protection of the Malaya News Service as an effective weapon in radicalising Malaysia. In addition, student aid has been given for the building of a progressive movement in Malaysia. For that purpose $2,000 was allocated. 
I agree entirely especially unemployed students or graduates. I turn now to Thailand. Here we have the Thai Information Centre with an allocation of $2,500, and the emergency travel expenditure fund for the Thai activists fleeing from the Thai Government either to or within Australia with an allocation of $2,000. Of course there are problems in Thailand and these are the reasons why we need to be sympathetic to the difficulties of various people in that country. Nevertheless, I emphasise the point I made earlier: I wonder precisely what responsibility this should be for the AUS which is, ostensibly, in terms of its own charter, responsible for the activities and the welfare of Australian university students. 
I now refer to a much more political question, namely that the AUS is campaigning this year to destroy the Association of South-East Asian Nations. In fact ASEAN is regarded by the AUS as an implicit tool of exploitation of the people of South-East Asia. For that purpose some $1,000 has been allocated. We go a little further still down the leftist road of politics. The AUS has a campaign to end the 5-power Defence Agreement. For that purpose $1,000 has been allocated. So it goes on. Funds have been allocated for the anti-apartheid campaign and of course every member of this Parliament should applaud that objective, if not the methods used. Of course we also have the situation in the Middle East. In recent years the AUS has demonstrated an abundantly clear one-sided political view on this question, no doubt supported by a gentleman called  Mr Hartley  who is a friend of the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  who is sitting at the table at this moment representing the Opposition. Nevertheless, the executive members of the AUS and their organisation received assistance in achieving these objectives. They have been given substantial funds for telephones, and receive travelling allowances and have access to a substantial publicity machine; in fact, I would say that it is probably one of the best political publicity machines in Australia today. Through this machine the executive informs students of their own private political opinions on questions not related to student welfare. The student body is required to pay for all this through the requirement under State legislation and the bylaws of the universities that every student must pay fees of $2.50 towards the funding of AUS or be prevented from taking courses and sitting for examinations on the university campus. That speaks for itself. 
Let us turn now to some other subjects. There is the question of homosexuality. Funds of more than $3,000 have been allocated for a homosexual research grant. The AUS policy demands that homosexuality be presented to students in schools as a valid life style. The AUS also affirms the right of homosexual teachers to express and promote their belief in schools. The AUS will conduct a campaign in this area this year. I wonder how many Australian university students in the Australian community would be prepared to allow their funds to be put to such purposes. Yet it goes on. 
-The grant was for $3,100. Then we go on to the question of the National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Student Union for which an amount of $22,000 has been allocated. A further $18,000 has been allocated by way of grant for a black resources centre. May I say at this point that in my opinion the AUS has made considerable progress in making Australians generally more aware of the problems of the Aboriginal people of Australia. But since the Aboriginal people are Australians, I fail to see why the AUS cannot look after their interests along with the interests of white Australian students rather than become involved in other matters. I fail to see the virtue of an additional organisation specifically for black students. I would have thought that that was quite contrary to the very purposes of the policy of the AUS in this field. 
Again, in terms of education, we see that the AUS believes that entry to tertiary institutions should be based on the willingness of individuals to learn and not on academic preparedness. It also believes that under staff-student control the tertiary institution should be used as centres of anti-capitalist activity. The case is quite clear. The AUS has been taken over. It is now pressing its policies through education to insist that people follow the dictates of the AUS leadership. For example, the AUS also believes that teachers have a right to have sexual relationships with pupils. These are not my views; they are the views of the AUS leaders. These are the views 
Cut forward and accepted at the last conference eld in Melbourne early this year. I seriously doubt that they would be the views of the vast majority of Australian students. 
-Has the Treasurer's attention been drawn to a report in the  National Times  last weekend which alleged that Federal departments are desperate to use up any surplus funds from their 1976-77 Budget allocations by such dubious stratagems as autumn cleaning and interstate travel? What action has the Government taken to monitor such expenditure? Will the Treasurer assure the House that the Government will not take lightly any evidence of unnecessary expenditure by departments and that those responsible may experience a spring cleaning of their departmental expenditure in the forthcoming Budget? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) What taxation concessions, rebates or other forms of taxation relief are available to the following groups of people: (a) male divorcees, particularly with respect to relief for those paying maintenance for children for whom the former wife is entitled to family allowances, (b) male "single" supporting parents, (c) female "single" supporting parents and (d) persons who are maintaining or helping to maintain relatives in nursing homes. 
With regard to "single" supporting parents, what would be the cost to revenue if child minding expenses were an allowable tax deduction or a rebatable matter. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
1 ) Is it a fact that since 8 May 1973 people who leave Australia have been entitled to continue to receive social security benefits. 
If so, what conditions attach to the payment of these benefits, and in what way are these conditions different to those applying to the eligibility for pensions of persons resident in Australia. 
How many persons who are not resident in Australia (a) receive or (b) are entitled to receive benefis 
What is the cost to revenue of payment of these benefits. 
What classes of benefits are so payable to persons overseas, and how many persons are in each class. 
Can the Minister say what other countries continue to pay benefits to non-residents in similar conditions as those described in the answer to part (2). 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
1 ) How many canteens are operated on Commonwealth premises for the benefit primarily of Commonwealth public servants. 
Where are these canteens, which of them are managed under contract by independent contractors, and which are managed by the Commonwealth. 
Are those canteens managed by the Commonwealth subsidised in any way by the Commonwealth; if so, what is the size of the subsidy or loss in each case. 
Do any of the canteens referred to in part (3) make a profit; if so, which canteens, and what is the size of their individual profits. 
What is the role in canteen management of Commonwealth Hostels Limited. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 May 1 977: 
1 ) What is the airframe and engine cost of (a) S2E and (b) S2G Tracker Aircraft. 
What is the cost of associated electronics and avionics installed on (a) S2E and (b) S2G Tracker Aircraft. 
What are the differences in avionics and other equipment between S2E and S2G aircraft. 
What spares and other support equipment will have to be purchased to support (a) S2E and (b) S2G aircraft to the end of their operational lives. 
What is the presently estimated life-of-type for (a) S2E and (b)S2G aircraft. 
What is the cost of providing spares and other support equipment for (a) S2E and (b) S2G aircraft. 
7) Is there any equipment either in, or to be fitted to, the S2G aircraft to be purchased by Australia, which has not been previously used by the Australian Defence Forces. If so, what is this equipment, what is its cost, what additional support is required to operate the equipment through its lifeoftype and at what cost. 
What is the extent and cost of training required to allow RAN personnel to operate and maintain any equipment referred to in part (7). 
Has the United States offer (Ser 633c/744745) of 14 July 1 976 for six S2E aircraft at $US93,000 each now lapsed. 
-Few governments in Australia's relatively short federal history have come into power with such a thoroughly unsatisfactory economic situation before them. Despite that fact, this Budget does assure Australians of future solid progress towards economic and social objectives, laid down by the Government over the last two years and enunciated in particular by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  during the 1975 campaign. Perhaps the most telling comments I could use to introduce this Budget were contained in the report and financial statement of the Reserve Bank of Australia issued on 30 June last. The bank stated: 
Although the process of redressing imbalances in the economy continued in 1976-77, the extent of the damage suffered by the economy has been such that much remains to be done. The private sector, as well as government, will have a role in restoring sustainable growth, price stability and full employment; this is not a simple process, and the goals are unlikely to be fully achieved quickly. The emphasis on ending the inflation needs to be maintained because continued inflation is incompatible with a healthy Australian economy. The return to economic prosperity will be quicker and sounder if overall economic policy continues to be firm and if there is continued improvement in the balance between fiscal and monetary policy. 
The objectives of the Government can be best defined in terms of three specific goals. Firstly, we intend to maintain the trend to lower inflation. Secondly, and this is dependent upon the achievement of the first goal, we must promote moderate and non-inflationary growth in order to create jobs and reduce unemployment. Thirdly, this Budget will move Australia further towards achieving those goals and, in so doing, it will build on the foundation laid by last year's Budget. 
Despite the very real difficulties we have faced in the last financial year, gross non-farm product rose by some 3.5 per cent whereas in the last period of the Whitlam Administration gross nonfarm product did not increase at all. Excluding health and medical services, inflation has also fallen from 15.4 percent in 1975 to 10.2 percent in 1976-77. We should never forget that in the last year of the Whitlam Administration the rate of inflation was some 17 per cent. The strategy enunciated by the Government since it came into power is to establish sustained economic growth and the conditions which are required for that strategy are lowering inflation, reducing the Budget deficit, and keeping Budget outlays within zero real growth. 
It is a primary objective of the Government to ensure that there is efficiency and economy in the management of all government spending. We have seen for too long the attitude that the funds used by the Government can be taken from the people regardless of the cost to the man in the street. It is our policy, and the people of Australia expect us to carry it through, that every dollar taken from the elector must be spent, efficiently and effectively. In addition, it is our objective to restore incentives for initiative and enterprise by lowering the rate of taxation. There is no question, and no member of the House should be under any illusion on this point, that the Government has kept faith with the Australian people and, despite the very real difficulties related to the size of the deficit, introduced taxation reforms over the last two years in the range of $3,000m in terms of lost revenue. In view of the size of the deficit at the moment, it could be said: Why has the Government done that? Why did it not leave things as they were in order to have no deficit at all? The reality, of course, is that with an economy which so desperately needed an infusion of confidence, the average person, whether he is an employer or an employee, must be helped to believe that at least he can take home more than 50 per cent of every dollar he has earned. We have done better than that. We have ultimately reached the point where it is possible to plan for a consumer-led recovery. In addition it is essential that we revitalise the private sector. In addition to taxation reform, we have entered into a series of measures over the last two years directed at that objective. We must also restore Australia's international competitiveness by job creation initiatives, lower inflation, lower taxation and wage restraint. They are obviously essential prerequisites to enable the Government's strategic appreciation of our economic difficulties to be put into a realistic framework and carried through. Despite the difficulties, the Budget initiatives have been quite extraordinary. We have reduced the deficit by some 19 per cent over the last financial year. Again, I emphasise that we inherited a situation in 1975 in which the government deficit was running at $4,700 billion. It is now down to $2,200 billion, a remarkable achievement with which the Government can be very satisfied. We went to the people at the last election promising a government for all Australians, regardless of where they live, regardless of their income, regardless of any other factors. We are not a government of social division, unlike the Australian Labor Party. We are a government of unity. In that regard despite the difficulties, government spending on education is up 10 per cent on the expenditure for last year. Spending on health is up 11 per cent. For social security and welfare, government expenditure has increased by 13 per cent. Housing and community development has also been considered seriously in the Budget. Expenditure on State and local government has increased by 14 per cent. The Government's economic strategy has been directed at ensuring that some programs are either transferred back to the States- or through our taxation reform we have been able to discontinue certain programs in the belief that it should be the right of every citizen to decide how best his income should be spent. We fundamentally reject the proposition that government should be all pervasive, that it should be involved in every aspect of the life of the Australian citizen. That is not the democracy we seek! That is not freedom. Freedom, as we see it, is a state in which every Australian should be given the opportunity to develop to the ultimate extent possible with the minimum of Government interference. 
Of course, there are many people in our community who for various reasons are unable to do this of their own volition. Of course, it is the responsibility of the state to ensure that they are given the opportunities to live a full and productive life. But we utterly reject the concept that every citizen should be given excessive State support continually. It is obvious that a community of some 14 million people cannot be expected to support such a welfare state indefinitely. With that objective in mind, we have ensured that all essential social welfare programs have been continued. All welfare programs have been linked in with indexation so that when the consumer price index increases due to inflation people in receipt of the welfare dollar lose nothing. This is an achievement which has never been introduced by an Australian Government before. It is one for which this Government has every reason to be proud. 
I turn now to the question of taxation reform. Here, of course, the Government's record is second to none. Let me explain the details: The new and simplified taxation system introduces a basic rate of taxation for the vast majority of taxpayers. No tax on income is payable for those who earn less than $3,750 a year. Of course, that covers the vast majority of pensioners. A standard rate of taxation of 32c in the dollar has been introduced on all incomes over $3,750. A surcharge of 14 per cent has been levied on income between $16,000 a year and $32,000 a year and a surcharge of 28 per cent is levied on all income over $32,000 a year. The result of this is that the vast majority of the Australian people have had extremely large reductions made in their rate of tax. It also means that those on the lower scales of income pay no tax. The Australian system of personal income tax with these reforms is now without doubt one of the most advanced in the western world. Let us remember that this has all been achieved despite the fact that we have foregone voluntarily some $3,000m in lost revenue. This is because we believe it is fundamentally important, even in these difficult times, that the people of Australia should be made to believe that this Government is concerned for their welfare. This Government believes that individuals are ultimately the best people to decide how to look after themselves, to spend as they wish and as they are now able to do to meet their desires and needs. Obviously, this could not be achieved when there were onerous taxation rates which had been in existence for over 30 years. It is also worth remembering that in the 3 years of the Whitlam Administration, no serious attempt was made to change the taxation system. After all, why should it have done that? The taxation revenues from the Australian people rose in excess of 100 per cent. That is not a bad record for 3 years. As opposed to this, we have voluntarily given up $3, 000m in revenue to introduce taxation reform. Despite the Jeremiahs in our midst, there were no increases in indirect taxation introduced in the Budget.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek permission to incorporate in Hansard a table which gives the tax payable at selected levels of taxable income under indexation and proposed scales compared with tax at 1976-77 rates. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs - 
-I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs whether it is a fact that his Department has refused to finance a project to give special nutrition to malnourished Aboriginal children in the inner Sydney area? 
-Some 32 years ago the world was horrified to see the unleashing of the greatest force that man had ever known; that was the explosion of the atomic bombs over Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Since that time the world has changed a great deal. We have discovered, as we have in virtually every other aspect of human endeavour, that both good and evil can flow from our efforts. What we did not envisage in 1945 was that by 1977 the world would be facing the greatest potential energy shortages ever known by mankind. In fact it is estimated that by the turn of the century the increase in world demand will be some 400 per cent on current figures. The reality of this power problem which the world is facing has made the modern world realise that we must be prepared to utilise whatever means are at our disposal to encourage the development of alternative sources of energy so that industry, and people may be better able to develop not only in Australia but throughout the world. Through the development of cheap sources of energy opportunities which will be opened to the developing world undoubtedly will be much greater than they are at present. 
We have heard complaints from the Opposition about the fact that there have been no less than three debates in this chamber on this subject over the last 12 months. We have heard complaints that there has not been sufficient debate. I venture to suggest that we have spent more hours on debating this issue, both in this chamber and elsewhere, than has ever been the case on any other similar subject. Nevertheless I would be the first to say that perhaps not in Australia's recent history has the Australian Parliament and the Australian Government been faced by the need to take very significant decisions on a subject of such immense importance. This Government, after the most extensive inquiry conducted by the Fox Commission, has finally made its decision. Having done so it has the full support of this side of the House and undoubtedly it will have the support of the Australian people. 
The reality of the situation is that uranium has been mined in Australia since 1958 and for at least the last two decades uranium power has been a viable source of energy, particularly in western Europe, the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. It is not all that new. Despite this fact, the three realities which we must face and which we must grapple with- the Government has demonstrated its quite clear intention to do so- are the areas of safeguards, waste disposal and proliferation. 
In the area of safeguards, the Australian Government recently announced a set of standards which are, without question, the highest in the world. They are certainly more significant, but must be seen in parallel with those of both the International Atomic Energy Agency and the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. The areas which are being covered by the Australian Government in terms of safeguards are the need to keep policy under constant review, a careful selection of eligible customers for uranium, the application of effective international atomic energy safeguards, bilateral agreements with customer countries, fall-back safeguards, prior Australian Government consent in relation to reexport, enrichment and reprocessing, constant physical security, safeguard provisions in contracts and international multi-lateral efforts to strengthen safeguards. It is also worth noting, because it is of considerable importance, that as a result of the Australian Government's decision to proceed with the mining and export of uranium Australia has been invited to join with the United States and other countries who are already in the nuclear fuel cycle program in the development of evaluation techniques which will be a further step towards ensuring that more adequate safeguards are constantly being developed. 
There is no question in this House, that there are risks with uranium but I recall that at the turn of the century the people who first drove automobiles had men walking in front of those vehicles carrying red flags. People called it an accursed machine. Since the turn of the century we have seen more people die on our roads in this nation and elsewhere than were killed in all the wars of the last 500 years. Nevertheless the reality remains. It is our primary responsibility to ensure that there are no more Hiroshimas and Nagasakis and that secondly, through the peaceful development of uranium, we will be able to see a more viable and happy mankind in the future. In terms of the problems we face with energy needs, it is worth remembering that the future demand for uranium depends essentially on the rate of growth in electricity consumption throughout the world and upon the requirements of electricity which are to be supplied by nuclear plants. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing a forecast of world nuclear power capacity. 

 The table read as follows- 

-Therefore the propensity for the wellbeing and development of both Australia and the world as a whole is going to depend in the future on the availability, and the reliable availability, of cheap sources of fuel. Since 1973 when the oil crisis struck as a deadly blow the industrial heartland of Western Europe in particular, as well as that of North America, the Western world has been faced by the immediate need to seek and to find and develop alternative sources of energy. Otherwise it is facing economic suicide. 
The strange thing we have not noticed in this debate is that the other section of the world, namely the Soviet Union and its satellites, which are also well along the road to nuclear development, have not been brought into this debate. They do not see in their societies segments of the community, even miniscule ones, taking to the streets and making other forms of public protest, because in those societies protest is not allowed. One can perhaps ask this question: Why is it that in the Western countries we find this tendency to try to return us to the trees literally, when obviously the reality of failure to develop uranium at this stage is going to leave us within the next 20 years in a most serious predicament unless massive alternative sources of fossilised fuel are found. The expectations of the scientific community demonstrate the fact that it is highly unlikely that any large quantities of fossilised fuel will be developed in this country or elsewhere to meet the increasing world demands in the foreseeable future. 
I would like to make five other points which are of tremendous relevance to the development of the nuclear uranium industry in Australia. I draw them from a report entitled 'Uranium Resources and Requirements' published by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and written by Messrs Silver and Wright. These are the main points made in the report: The uranium industry could be earning about $3,000m per year at projected prices or about $ 1,000m per year in current-that is, 1975- money values. These values should be compared with the current earnings from wool exports of about $800m or mineral exports of about $2,500m. The uranium industry could be employing about 2,300 people directly and probably supporting a similar number of people in the provision of consumables and operating services. A labour force of some 3,000 to 3,500 would be engaged in construction projects in the industry for the decade 1980 to 1990. The indirect labour required in other industries to support these construction projects would be at least 3,000 people. In addition to that, the construction of those plants would require about $ 1,750m to be spent by 1985, and some of that money would be spent in Australia and would therefore provide employment and further growth. The wages bill in the industry could be about $100m a year, which is equivalent to about $35m to $40m in 1975 money values. 
The advantages to the Australian community and to the development of our industry are quite clear. Yet we have seen an absolute demonstration of Labor hypocrisy in the handling of this most vital issue. How is it that a mere two and three years ago the then Government could not get into the nuclear industry fast enough? Now we hear in hypocritical terms this sudden desire: 'Stop! I want to get off'. But, sir, the world keeps turning; development will keep taking place. Every move we make carries with it a risk. But obviously it is the objective of mankind to apply his skills and his technology to overcome those risks, and developments in that regard have already taken place. Yet on 31 October 1974 the Whitlam Labor Government detailed its policy on the mining and exporting of uranium in a major statement made to the Parliament by the then Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  That is what he said: 

<graphic href="106131197709062_63_0.jpg"></graphic>

This statement is to outline the Government 's program for the rational development of uranium resources in the Northern Territory- a program which will return substantial benefits to Australia from our supply of this vital energy resource to our overseas trading partners who face such grave difficulties in securing their own energy requirements. 
Yet it took a mere 24 hours of behind the scenes negotiations with the left wing leaders in Perth, followed by a mere 45 minutes of public debate in conference, noted by the silence of such outstanding members of the Labor movement as the  President, Mr Hawke,  the parliamentary leader himself and his  deputy, Mr Hayden,  to see that policy not only undone but completely turned over. Despite the statements made in those years by virtually every member of the Labor Party who remains in the Opposition benches, in support of the proposition that Australia should utilise its existing reserves, should get them out of the ground and should sell them to enable the world to improve its standard of living. To enable the world to have at its disposal alternative sources of energy, we as a government are faced by the reality that if we had not made this decision, if we had not made our uranium reserves available to the world, the situation simply was that the advent of the fast breeder reactor, which regrettably I believe will come in due course, would undoubtedly be hastened. 
The development of technology for an effective fast breeder reactor is seen by scientists as being on the frontier of scientific discovery. Being a frontier it will be pushed back, but nothing is more certain than the stage of the fast breeder reactor will be reached if cheap and reliable sources of energy are not available at this time and in the foreseeable future. Countries such as Japan have already gone on record as saying: 'If you cannot supply us with our requirements of U203 we have no alternative but to go into the plutonium cycle and the development of the fast breeder reactor'. Faced by that fundamental reality, by the knowledge that the development of the fast breeder reactor is imminent, the capacity of the NPT and IAEA or any other safeguards to regulate effectively the dissemination, and the risks associated with uranium, would obviously be out of normal control at that time. 
The Government has taken the right decisions after considerable and very detailed examination. It is Australia's responsibility to the world to play its full part in maintaining a peaceful future for mankind, a future which will be based as far as we are aware on the available sources of energy and the development of what could be one of the greatest breakthroughs of mankind. I am also very pleased to see in the Government's announcement that it is proposed that part of the revenues received from the resources tax on the development of uranium will be spent in looking for alternative sources of energy, including solar energy. Of course, we will break through in this area but it will take time. In the meantime mankind needs uranium. 
-Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of the growing international interest in the resources of the Antarctic? What is the Government's attitude to the exploitation of the living resources of the Antarctic? Does the Government intend to hold to its claim to the Australian Antarctic Territory? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
How many unions have taken advantage of the Government's offer to conduct secret ballots for union elections through the Australian Electoral Office. 
How many unions have chosen to conduct their own ballots. 
How are ballots, which unions conduct themselves, supervised. 
What will be the cost to revenue of the elections referred to in pan ( 1 ) during 1976-77. 
What will be the approximate cost of the elections referred to in part ( 2 ) during 1976-77. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
1 ) What is the present basis for determining rentals for lease of Commonwealth owned hangars and buildings at Commonwealth airports. 
What is the estimated revenue from hangars and buildings leased by aero clubs throughout Australia. 
What is the current written down cost of hangars and buildings leased by aero clubs and what is their replacement value for insurance purposes. 
What is the justification for requiring aviation tenants of Commonwealth buildings to insure them for replacement cost when the tenant is given no undertaking that in the event of the building being partially or totally destroyed it will be replaced by the Commonwealth. 
Is it a condition of tenancy that Commonwealth owned buildings must be maintained internally and externally at the tenant's expense other than for structural members; if so, is this condition in keeping with commercial real estate practice. 
Is the land on airports leased by the aviation industry clearly distinguishable from land which the industry is entitled to use as a result of paying air navigation charges. 
Considering the importance of international relations to the future welfare of this country, the contributions made tonight by the leaders of the Opposition have been, to say the least, pitiful. We nave heard so much about ideological blockages, responding to false images. In fact the little which we have heard has been light on substance but heavy on style. It has been laced with vindictive comments, half truths and, of course, inevitable innuendo. The reality facing Australia of course, is what our relations should be with our neighbours and, more importantly, with the world; how we as a nation see our position in terms of our domestic relationships and their interrelationships with international situations. 
Perhaps the greatest failure which we have seen in recent years in terms of Australia's international relations rests wholly and solely on the performance of the previous Prime Minister of Australia in relation to the question of Timor. What he left to this country can be described only as a legacy of shame. During his visit to Jakarta in September 1974 and  President  Suharto's visit to Australia in April 1975 that man and his Government sold the right of Australia to hold its head high and to say that we are people of principle, regardless of which party is in government, and that we know where the rights of individuals for self-determination lie. It is perhaps the most extraordinary quirk of history that the socialists in our midst- that group of people which theoretically maintains the highest standards and regards all others only as the flotsam and jetsam of society- demonstrated in that very real situation, as distinct from the morass of innuendo and half truths which we normally hear from them, how they failed utterly to face a real crisis. It is perhaps a sad thing for men like Curtin and Chifley in the Second World War, who also espoused the same philosophy and who had the courage to take the right and the difficult decisions, that their successors have so failed. They demonstrated to this nation while in government their utter and complete contempt for the truth and for the rights of peoples whether Indonesians or Timorese. I would like to quote for the benefit of the House the comment made by  Dr H.  V. Evatt in this chamber on 9 February 1949. I will give some historical perspective. This was at the time the Dutch and the Indonesians were fighting over the question of whether Indonesia had the right to its independence. He said: 
Nobody can say that it is not our business. It is the business of the United Nations Organisation, of which we are a part, and of the people of the world because the life or death of a Dutch or Indonesian soldier is just as important as that of any man anywhere in the world . . . 
What is the difference between the life or death of an Indonesian soldier killed in Timor and the rights of a citizen of Timor to fight for his independence? Yet at the time when Australia could have done something, when we could have given the moral support which I believe, on the basis of recent intelligence,  President  Suharto would have wished at that time, the Prime Mnister sold the rights of another people to decide their future, and left in its wake the death and destruction which has fallen upon that small nation. Regrettably the path of Timor's history which could have been a clear road is pitted by tears and blood which have fallen upon it for so long. But I hope we have learned a lesson. Whereas people like the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in his time took to the streets with demonstrations over Vietnam, what have we heard since then with regard to the genocide in Kampuchea? Silence!  (Quorum formed)  Members of the Opposition can try as hard as they like to stifle the freedom of speech of members of this chamber, but the people of this country are well able to differentiate between the truth and falsehood which we have heard from them so often in the past hour. 
Let me now turn to some of the comments made by the ostensible acting Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitiam)  with regard to the performance of this Government in the area of foreign policy. The honourable member complained about our handling of relations with Japan. What government would have the courage to face the Australian people if it was not prepared, as this Government has done, to stand up in every forum and to demonstrate that it believes that Australian producers of beef, of sugar and of any other commodity have a right to expect that contracts freely entered into are carried out by aU parties. If members of the Opposition regard the Prime Minister's action with contempt, all I can say is that they are not fit to ever grace this chamber, much less the benches of government. 
Certain comments were made about the Government's attitude to apartheid and about Rhodesia. We were told that I went to Rhodesia last year. I say here in this chamber in front of my peers that I am proud that I made that trip because, as the representative of the people, it is my responsiblity to acquaint myself with the facts. I do not sit in this chamber in judgment about how other nations run their affairs without knowledge except perhaps the biased views of some doctrinaire text book. I do not support apartheid. This Government certainly does not support apartheid. But let this be understood: If this land has failed, as it has in recent history, to solve its own problems- to wit, the Aborigines- what right have we to start demanding that other peoples should agree with us. It is only by going to countries and seeing for oneself what the problems of that country are that one is able effectively to come back and to make a sound judgment on how situations can be improved. 
The objective in southern Africa is clear. What we are not clear about is how to attain it. One thing is certain: The views adopted by people, such as the rabble that makes up the Opposition, have shown quite demonstrably that forcing people into a corner makes them fight and by fighting all that is achieved is bloodshed. It is said that the Labor Party stands for the eight principles of peaceful co-existance However, I ave never seen a greater demonstration of falsehood than I have seen from Opposition speakers tonight in this debate. This Government is clear on what our national responsibilities are. As the Government of Australia we will stand up in the world community. We will continue to state what Australia is prepared to do to make the world a better place for other people to live in. Above all, the Government is responsible for the future welfare of our own people and has demonstrated that at all times it is prepared to support the interests of the people of Australia. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Which major Federal unions, Le. with a membership of approximately 10,000 or more, are conducting their own ballots. 
What percentage of union members voted in union elections in each of the years from 1 970 to 1 976, inclusive. 
What is the average term of office for which persons are elected in union elections. 
Which unions have compulsory secret ballots. 
-I present the 165th report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave to make a short statement on the report. 
-After listening to the Opposition tonight one could only assume from the hysteria engendered that perhaps the nation is supposed to be gearing up for an election. I would like to draw attention to some of the learned remarks of my excellent colleague the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  who drew to our attention this most extraordinary page that appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  and other newspapers on Tuesday, 1 1 October. The most extraordinary thing about these advertisements is that we have heard for so long, indeed ever since the demise of the Labor Government in November 1975, about the pernicious Press, about the lies of the Press and about how it sold the Australian people down the drain. Of course, the actions of the Labor Party, then in government, were said to have been totally misconceived and misunderstood by the people; that, after all, it really was a government of compassion and concern. The trouble was that nobody could find the compassion and certainly we could not see the concern. 
Of course, we did hear the news about Khemlani; we heard things about Iraqi breakfasts and such things, but when newspapers carry such stories one can only assume that they are a figment of the imagination of the journalist of the day, who happens to be simply spending his time looking for a good story. The amusing thing about this series of some 24 articles, or pages chosen for this collage, the basis of the Opposition's waste of some $80,000, is that it demonstrates certain most interesting things. For example, we see that Abigail is back on Number 96; we see that Beetson is going to New Zealand; that Vivien's last years were hell; and we read of the agony of sex madness. All of this would suggest that the Opposition has given a remarkable demonstration of interest in the more subliminal matters of life in its choice of pages from these journals. It is also worth mentioning that the gentleman,  Mr Rupert  Murdoch, who is the owner of some 13 of the 24 newspapers quoted from was, as I recall- my memory might be faulty on this matter but I doubt it- the gentleman whom the Opposition literally pilloried across the length and breadth of this land because he had the courage, in the last months of the previous Government, to let the people of this nation know precisely what was going on and what the Government of the day was doing to bring this country to the lowest ebb of psychological and national fervour I have had the misfortune to see. 
Nevertheless bedfellows can indeed be strange. When it suits the Opposition it is quite happy to use journalists, newspapers, their publishers and, of course, the pages of the day. The selection it has chosen is almost exclusively from afternoon newspapers. I suggest that with the most liberal interpretation of afternoon newspapers one could not say they demonstrate necessarily a particularly high degree of intellectual integrity in all matters. If the Labor Party had chosen morning newspapers it would have been closer to the point. Nevertheless it has chosen the evening newspapers in the belief that if they can read the writing-believe me, it is small enough- sufficient people will be stupid enough to fund the next election campaign of the Labor Party. The fact of the matter is that there are not enough people in Australia to fill this building in terms of the amount of money with which they are prepared to fund the Labor Party. The three years from which we are still suffering are still memories far too strong in the minds of the vast majority of the Australian people. When the simple question is put to them: 'Do you want to risk this nation m the hands of another Whitlam?' the answer inevitably is: 'My God, no.' 
There is a good article in the  Australian  today on a reference across America of what big businessmen thought of the previous Labor Government. On that particular subject they are absolutely united in the fact that there is no future for foreign investment in this country if ever- I am sure that the Australian people will take the 'ever' very seriously- there is another Labor government. I am sure they will not return the administration of this country to the people who now succumb on the Opposition benches and who will be there for many years to come. 
This advertisement was also authorised by David Combe, the General Secretary of the Labor Party as I understand it, who on 23 April last year declared that the Australian newspapers had committed a fraud on the Australian people during the 1975 election campaign. Surely even he has to admit that at times like this one has to go to bed even with one's greatest enemy. 
-I give notice that at the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House: 
Condemns as crimes of the most heinous kind acts of terrorism and hijacking of civil aircraft; 
Calls upon the governments of all nations to support efforts in the United Nations to draw up an effective convention to protect the lives of innocent third parties and to ensure that hijackers have no haven and urges governments to introduce domestic laws providing for life imprisonment and, if appropriate in cases where an act of murder has occurred, the capital punishment of all persons responsible for the aforementioned crimes; and 
Commends the governments of the Federal Republic of Germany and the State of Israel for their principled and necessary actions in rescuing innocent passengers and crew in recent aircraft hijacking and urges all governments to give full support to efforts to protect the lives of hostages and to bring hijackers to justice. 
-Last week the New South Wales Government announced that the Warkworth deposits in the Hunter Valley were to be given to the Electricity Commission of New South Wales for development. The ramifications of the decision - 
-I hope that the honourable member will keep this in mind because it is relevant to some of his constituents. We care for them even if he does not. The ramifications of that decision will have a major impact on Australian and foreign investment in New South Wales. Those of us who represent that State, a State which at this time happens to have the highest level of unemployment in the Commonwealth and many other major social and economic problems saw what the New South Wales Government did last week as a clear demonstration of the fact that it does not really care a damn about whether Australians can get usage of their resources nor whether more Australians, especially New South Welshmen, will have access to jobs in that State. 
The decision eroded confidence, and that is one thing that the investor and the people of New South Wales in particular can well do without at this time. The deposit in question was in fact explored by a totally owned Australian companyI emphasise that- Coal and Allied Industries Ltd which, I am told, spent some $1 lm on that investment. It expected, not unreasonably in a mixed economy such as Australia, that, having discovered and proven up those resources, it would be given first opportunity to utilise and to develop them. But no.  Mr Hills  came on the scene and said 'I am going to take this coal over. It will be given over to the New South Wales Electricity Commission'. But the interesting thing is that coal from this deposit is soft coking coal. My understanding is that soft coking coal is too valuable for the generation of electricity. Electricity generation needs lower quality coal. What are we to conclude from that? Is the Commission now to develop into a steel manufacturer or a producer of raw materials as distinct from a user of coal for electricity generating purposes? Where will we see an end to this, or are we to conclude- certainly a lot of investors will undoubtly conclude in this case in New South Wales- that the Government is directed on a clear policy of nationalisation of the available resources of that State? That is what we are seeing. Furthermore,  Mr Hills  said to this company when he advised it of his decision: 'Do not worry chaps. This is a one-off decision'. Who will be silly enough to fall for that one? Who can possibly believe that a government such as the Wran Government will initiate a one-off decision in a situation like that? The Premier recently returned from Tokyo and proudly told the people that he had sold 49 per cent of the Newnes steaming coal deposit to Japanese interests. Were Australian interests and especially New South Wales interests given any opportunity at all to involve themselves in the Newnes deposit? Not that I am aware of. Certainly not the people of New South Wales. 
-I hope that the honourable member for Hunter will appreciate this fact, because they are his constituents. They are also my constituents and the constituents of the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil);  the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  and the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock).  We are all in this chamber because we are vitally concerned about the welfare of our State. What do we see on the Opposition's side of the chamber? We see one miserable New South Wales representative. Nevertheless,  Mr Hills  sought to defend his decision by claiming that it was in the national interest. Is it in the national interest that a State instrumentality should be given a major interest in a project such as this? The company which went to the trouble of spending some Slim in developing the deposit was told: You can take a minority interest in the show'. Who will invest in New South Wales resources on that basis? Why is it that New South Wales is losing so much of its population to Queensland? Why is it that New South Wales is losing so much investment to Queensland? Whether we like it or not that State offers a stable governmental system where investors know where they stand and what their relations will be with the State Government. The Wran Government has failed New South Wales and has failed the people of Australia as a result. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
What is the cost of administering the Export Market Development Grants Act without taking into account the cost of the grants made under that Act. 
What was the cost to revenue of (a) the 60 per cent grants and (b) the 85 percent grants in each year of the Act's operation. 
How many applicants sought grants; in which category were they sought and how many were successful in each category in each year of the Act 's operation. 
How many public servants are primarily engaged in the administration of the Act in each State and Territory. 
How many of the successful applicants have become profitable exporters since receiving assistance under the Act as a result of that assistance. 
What would be the estimated cost to revenue of removing ( a ) the ceiling payable on grants and ( b ) the group of corporations requirement. 
Because of the importance of territorial seas and submerged lands matters, can the Prime Minister inform the House of progress made on these matters at the recent Premiers Conference? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, I present a special report on the proceedings of the Conference of Commonwealth and State Public Accounts Committees in June 1977. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-To the best of our knowledge the Conference of Commonwealth and State Public Accounts Committees was the first occasion since Federation that equivalent committees of the Parliaments of Australia have met with the common purpose of giving greater substance to Parliament's traditional responsibility of effectively reviewing the financial activities of the Executive Government, to ensure that funds are spent as Parliament intended and that taxpayers do in fact receive value for money. It was the firm view of the Conference that the proper and efficient expenditure of public funds and the collection of revenue must remain the paramount concern of all public accounts committees. 
During the Conference the mechanics of financial scrutiny by parliaments was examined and although no resolutions were recorded the following general observations are contained in the report: The function of public accounts committees is to exercise parliamentary scrutiny over the executive and administration with the object of stimulating a more effective use of public funds. With the continuing growth of government expenditure in real terms, an increase of almost 50 per cent in the past decade, there is a pressing need for more effective scrutiny by par.iaments both State and Federal. It was hoped that the increasing emphasis placed by the Auditors-General on efficiency auditing rather than merely regulatory auditing would enable public accounts committees to place more emphasis on their value for money inquiries. 
It was necessary to aim for greater coordination between State and Federal public accounts committees to ensure adequate public accountability for expenditure across all spheres of government. It is worth making the observation that with the continuing use of special purpose grants parliaments should consider the development of new techniques to ensure more effective parliamentary overview, especially in those areas where there is 100 per cent Commonwealth funding such as tertiary education where the legal as well as the financial overlap between State and Federal responsibilities will require further clarification. Departmental and ministerial co-operation was also essential for the effective operation of public accounts committees. Public accounts committees would benefit by the use of expert guidance either as permanent or seconded staff and the use of expert witnesses. The Committee has had consultations with both the Auditor-General and the Public Service Board in the hope that a regular arrangement for the seconding of professional staff on rotation could be established. We believe this would be of advantage to both the Public Service and the Committee. 
It was considered important that effective guidelines for the selection of priorities for inquiry be developed. The public accounts committees generally accepted government policy as a starting point for their investigations, and examined the performance and the achievement of objectives within the context of that policy. Closer collaboration between public accounts committees and their respective AuditorsGeneral, Treasuries and Public Service Boards was essential to ensure more effective scrutiny of expenditure. Closer co-operation and coordination between the public accounts committees and other parliamentary committees concerned with the estimates of expenditure was essential for parliamentary control over the public purse. In the context of the Federal Parliament, we believe it will be necessary to maintain a close working relationship between the Public Accounts Committee, the Expenditure Committee of the House of Representatives, the Senate Estimates Committees and the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. Apart from informal meetings of chairmen of these committees it would be advisable for staff to have a close working relationship to minimise potential duplication and to increase the impact of specific examinations. The effective functioning of public accounts committees and of parliamentary scrutiny depended upon a clear understanding by members of Parliament of the budgetary processes. Committees should be concerned with the nature and comprehensibility of the financial information presented to the Parliament. 
The 1 1th Committee agreed in principle to an examination of the financial documents presented to Parliament. To assist members of the Parliament to appreciate the purpose and substance of the Budget documents, the Treasury was requested to re-issue a parliamentary handbook on Commonwealth and financial affairs. This has been done. While in theory the budgetary processes enable Parliament to review expenditure, in fact, despite the massive increase in government activities, the public accounts committee mechanism first introduced into the House of Commons in 1861 has not been significantly reformed, and it is doubtful that in its present form it can meet current responsibilities effectively. With the objective of overcoming some of these problems, the Committee has recommended to the Government substantial reforms to the Public Accounts Committee Act introduced into this House in 1951. These requirements would permit the Committee to examine regularly expenditure by statutory corporations and authorities which currently receive little effective parliamentary review, and widen terms of reference to include the review of efficiency audits conducted by the AuditorGeneral. This will ensure that the machinery of the Parliament is able to meet the expanded functions recently given to the Auditor-General. 
It is unfortunate that the public at large appears to have the impression that Parliament is little more than a venue for gladiatorial contests between political parties and because of the nature of the system it is unaware of the considerable work done by parliamentarians of all parties behind the scenes in committees such as that of public accounts. Provided the Parliament is prepared to take the initiative, we are confident that it will be possible to achieve an improvement in the effectiveness of public accounts committees, the members of which have a unique opportunity to gain a deep insight into the workings of the Public Service and to examine actual expenditure of funds by conducting public hearings and publishing, when necessary, critical reports. The Conference opened up a number of challenging areas in which the parliaments of Australia can seek closer co-operation in the future. I commend the report to honourable members. 
-I give notice that at the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House congratulates the Government for recognising the very real problems which many single parent families face in bringing up children and commends it for its humanitarian decision to grant single fathers full social service benefit equivalent to that now being paid to supporting mothers, and further commends the honourable member for Franklin,  Mr Bruce  Goodluck, and the other members of this House who supported him in his forthright support for the grant of full social service benefits to lone fathers. 
Furthermore, this House endorses the view that support for the continued viability of the family remains an integral prerequisite for the future welfare of this nation. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I present the 166th, 167th and 168th reports of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
-by leave-The 166th report comprises two Department of Finance minutes. The practice of presenting Finance minutes is a result of a long-standing arrangement between the Committee and the Department of Finance which ensures that the Committee's recommendations and conclusions are followed up and reported to Parliament. These minutes refer to the Committee's 158th report relating to expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer in 1974-75 and the 160th report relating to expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the same financial year. The minutes detail the action taken to rectify faults in procedures and controls discovered during the Committee 's examination of expenditure performance and the use of the Advance to the Treasurer by departments in the financial year 
1974- 75. 
The 167th report relates to the Committee's inquiry into matters raised by the AuditorGeneral in his report for the financial year 1975- 76. In the inquiry the Committee found that in the Department of Administrative Services on-the-job training was deficient and there was insufficient supervision of subordinates. The Department of Construction also had been negligent in its responsibilities towards fire safety, and there were considerable arrears in inspections of government property for fire protection purposes, particularly in the Australian Capital Territory, where cycle time for surveys had reached 56 years. There was evidence of disregard of financial instructions by senior officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs and incredible incompetence shown in the purchase and renovation of a residence in Dublin for the Counsellor at the Australian Embassy. 
In the case of the Northern Territory electricity supply undertaking the financial results since 1971-72 clearly indicate that increasing costs of operation have not been matched by corresponding increases in revenue to recover the full costs of providing power to residents. The Committee records its extreme dissatisfaction that, as a consequence, more than $23m may not have been recovered and believes that a major contributing factor was the division of responsibility between the Department of the Northern Territory and the Department of Construction. A report on the electricity undertaking in the Northern Territory recently tabled in this Parliament recommended that a statutory authority be established to draw these responsibilities together. The Committee believes that in fact responsibilities should be unified and that a single authority should be created for all the utilities in the Northern Territory as a duplicate administrative machine will be wasteful and expensive for consumers. 
The Committee took evidence relating to fraud by officers of the Department of Social Security and beneficiaries. The Committee is concerned to note increasing trends towards overpayments of benefits and has sought a further submission on the matter. The Committee has recommended that further consideration be given to the introduction of a national identity card system which could also have advantages in other areas such as health and immigration. The Committee also received evidence that short periods of casual employment were being refused by persons on the grounds that it adversely affects their unemployment benefit entitlements. The Committee believes that changes should be made in administering the benefits so that permanent job seekers are not disadvantaged by taking casual employment when the opportunity arises. 
The 168th report relates specifically to evidence taken in connection with items of expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer in 1976-77. As honourable members are aware, after the close of each financial year the Treasurer submits to the Parliament a statement of expenditure from the Advance to the 
Treasurer showing allocations to heads of expenditure made by him under section 36a of the Audit Act. As our report shows, there were cases where expenditure from the Advance was confined to urgent and unforeseeable requirements for which provision could not have been made in the Appropriation Acts. In other cases, however, there was evidence of overtime being used to circumvent staff ceilings, inefficient estimating procedures, and unacceptable delays which caused expenditure to be charged to the Advance when provision should properly have been made in the Additional Estimates. In general, however, there was a reduction in the number of requests for funds from the Advance, and results of the Committee's examination suggest that the majority of those requests were confined to urgent and unforeseeable requirements. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, for the benefit of the House, I would like to recall, very briefly, the work of the Eleventh Committee, which concludes its work with the presentation of these three reports. Your Committee was appointed in March of 1976 and in the 20 months since then has met on 84 occasions and has presented 13 reports to the Parliament- a total exceeded only by the first Public Accounts Committee chaired by Professor Bland, M.P., which tabled 14 reports. These 13 reports have ranged in subject matter from tabling Finance minutes reporting the follow-up action taken in respect of the Committee 's recommendations, examination of the Auditor-General's annual reports and expenditure performance of departments, examination of the financial affairs of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, which we regard as a most significant report, and a special report on the conference of Commonwealth and State public accounts committees which I tabled earlier this week. Honourable members will recall that on that occasion I stated that the conference was of historic significance as it was the first occasion since Federation that similar committees from parliaments throughout Australia had gathered together to discuss mutual problems. Already we have begun to implement some of the initiatives outlined in that report. Because of the early prorogation of the Thirtieth Parliament the Committee has been unable to report on its inquiry into the former Overseas Property Bureau, and the Twelfth Committee will have to decide whether to continue a major inquiry into the use of automatic data processing in the Commonwealth Public Service. 
As this is my last statement as  Chairman  of the Eleventh Public Accounts Committee, I would like to thank my colleagues for their co-operation and the Secretary to the Committee and his staff for their devotion to their dudes and loyalty to the Committee. I would like to place on record the Committee's appreciation for the support given by the previous Secretary,  Mr Tom  Devine, who retired at the end of August after four years with the Committee, and his successor  Mr Michael  Talberg. I would like particularly to note the loss to the Parliament and the Committee which will follow the retirement of the Committee's vice-chairman, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  He has made a most significant contribution to the work of the Committee and to the Parliament. When the Committee was re-established in September 1952 he was an original member. We are going to miss his wisdom in the next Parliament, but I know that all members of the Committee wish him well in his retirement.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I commend the reports to honourable members. 
-Has the Minister for Transport seen reports that only a handful of demonstrators were present at the latest loading of uranium containers at White Bay? Can the Minister confirm these reports and that the loading of the containers took place without incident? If so, does this demonstrate a growing community feeling that Australia should make its uranium available - 
-I direct to the Minister for Industry and Commerce a question which in a sense is supplementary to the previous question asked by the honourable member for Cunningham. Is the Minister aware of reports that Japanese steel is being dumped on the Australian market at prices well below that of locally made steel? In view of the impact of these imports on domestic industry, has the Government considered asking the Industries Assistance Commission to examine this matter? Has the Minister had discussions with officials of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd? Will the Minister confirm that it is the Government's policy to give preference to Australian made products? Does this policy cover the use of Australian made products by all sub-contractors and contractors for Commonwealth projects? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Defence been drawn to newspaper comments, in particular that in the  National Times  at the weekend, with regard to ex-service personnel who are in the employ of large companies that supply equipment to the defence Services? Can the Minister inform the House as to whether these gentlemen have been or are in a position to influence decisions favourable to their companies during the decision making process? 
I think it appropriate for me to compliment the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  for his wisdom in proposing this matter of public importance. It is the first time over the last threeodd years that we have seen any member of the Opposition take any interest at all in the defence of this nation. The honourable member has also, quite rightly, emphasised the difficult decisions which have to be taken in this area. As a general statement I will not argue with him on the substance of the facts which he has given. We need to see the whole context of this problem. We are talking firstly about the territorial integrity of Australia; that is, not just the physical land mass but also the sea around us. 
In the near future we will legislate for a fisheries zone which will increase from our coast by some 200 miles the area over which we have jurisdiction. In terms of total area this represents a sea mass approximately equivalent to the land mass of Australia. It is obvious that any government of this nation has to consider very seriously how we can effectively overcome the real difficulties caused by the size of the area over which we have to maintain some jurisdiction. 
The first responsibility of government is to provide a nation with security from armed attack and from the constraints of independent national decisions imposed by the threat of such attacks. That is the introduction to the White Paper introduced into the last Parliament by  Mr Killen,  the Minister for Defence, in November 1976. As the honourable member for Corio is aware, that document is still relevant today. It is also worth emphasising that this Government, under no circumstances, will run away from what we see as a primary responsibility of effective national administration. However, a clear distinction must be made between peacetime law enforcement and the protection of the nation's sovereignty. I suspect that on this point the honourable member for Corio and speakers from the Government side will have some area of disagreement. 
It is a matter of established practice that law enforcement does not demand 100 per cent enforcement. Since when have we caught every speeding driver, every break and entry offender or every traveller who brings goods in or takes goods out through an international airport whether such goods involve marihuana or the taking out of protected Australian wildlife flora and fauna? At the same time it must be emphasised that in recent months we have seen an increase in the number of refugees who have arrived off the Australian coast. We must again question whether their presence represents a de facto military threat or merely an illegal incursion into Australian national sovereignty. 
The primary purpose of our defence- this is the point which I think the honourable member for Corio was trying to make- according to the defence establishment, is based essentially upon the prospect of military threat which involves entirely different considerations in terms of Australia's territorial sovereignty. A major difficulty we are facing in that area is the sheer cost of updating our equipment and our personnel and maintaining a high standard which at all times is within our capacity to pay. We also have to consider the fundamental problems of lead time which is related to the updating and reequipping of our forces. 
In recent years, dating back to the time of the previous Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  there has been an increasing community interest in drugs which have been dropped off our coast and in refugees who have arrived in small boats. In addition, we must not forget infringements to our territorial sovereignty caused by illegal fishing. In recent years ships of a number of nations have entered Australian territorial seas illegally and have taken from them substantial resources of Australian fish. It can be equally argued that as a nation we have not successfully, up to this time, tried to utilise those resources to our own satisfaction. But the fact remains that last year the South Pacific Forum, of which Australia is a member, agreed that we would work towards a 200-mile resources zone. The first objective is that we will have a 200-mile fisheries zone. We understand that enabling legislation will be introduced in the near future. 
That decision will face us with two fundamental problems. Are we to say that no nation has the right of access to our zone without specific Australian Government approval? Or are we to take the view that as the resources of that zone are at present beyond our capacity to adequately farm and husband it would be more appropriate for us to enter into fisheries agreements with nations such as Japan, Russia and other states which may be interested, with the primary objective of ensuring that Australian companies through joint ventures in particular will be given some opportunity to gain access to the resources of those fishing grounds and that Australia as a nation will thus gain directly? These are real problems. They do not just cover the question of defence: but transcends foreign policy, domestic policy and, of course, primary industry policy. 
Let me refer more specifically to the question of defence and whether responsibility for our coastal surveillance should be a primary defence function, or a function of some other department such as the Department of Transport which currently provides the  chairman  for the interdepartmental committee which is examining this issue. I am pleased to see that the Government and the Opposition appreciate that the physical environment of Australia emphasises the importance of maritime surveillance, reconnaissance and offshore patrol. 
The White Paper lays out specifically the Government's program in this regard. We have been told by the honourable member for Corio that it is time we made a further statement. I emphasise that the White Paper is still the basic document upon which the defence policy of this administration is based. In this context, we have the LRMP- the long range maritime protection force- which consists of P3 Orion aircraft based at Edinburgh. Additional Orions have been purchased and they are based at Townsville. The difficulty with this particular aircraft is that it is not only an extremely expensive item of equipment but so sophisticated that its primary role is to seek out and destroy submarines or to seek out surface vessels of at least 2,000 tonnes deadweight. 
The fact of the matter is that most, if not all, of the refugee ships that have arrived off the Australian coast weigh substantially less than 2,000 tonnes. I would deign to suggest that most of the deep sea fishing boats which also impinge upon our territorial fishing resources also weigh below 2,000 tonnes. Therefore, the P3 Orion obviously is not the ideal piece of equipment to use, despite the fact that at this time it is regarded internationally as one of the most effective maritime search and surveillance aircraft in the Western world. 
When one looks at the scale or alternative aircraft which we could purchase one runs into a whole series of problems related specifically to the sheer size of Australia: The fact that we do not have sufficient usable airfields within the specific zones of activity. Although we take the view that the North West Shelf area of Australia to Cape York should be regarded as the primary area of concern, ' it cannot under any circumstances be taken as the only area. We see quite often that drugs are discovered on beaches, and found on boats with radio homing devices attached to them and so forth, in the southern seas off Australia. Therefore, the point must be made that we are not talking about just a specific area of the Australian coastline. Although there can be zones of activity which require more action than others, primarily we have to have some capacity for surveillance over the entire coastal area of Australia by air, sea and land. 
The honourable member for Corio also made the point- quite rightly so-that perhaps we should be considering the question of a coastguard. This is something to which the Government is currently giving serious consideration. The word 'civilian' has been used in this context to differentiate a non-military service. Whether a coastguard could be one means of achieving this or whether we should have a component added to the defence establishment- by calling it a coastguard' if we wish- or whether we should have a coastguard type facility established within the Department of Transport or the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, which is responsible for customs arrangements at the present time, has to be decided. 
Some very rough figures which have been taken out on this subject would suggest that the cost of running a very basic coastguard operation for Australia would be some $500m. The cost of cutters, for example, would be about $2 50m, small patrol craft another $30m, aircraft $20m and further infrastructure at least another $200m. In addition, actual annual running costs, allowing $20,000 for each man, which would be the basic cost including overtime, additional shore leave facilities, accommodation and so forth, including stores, fuel, rations, would be approximately another $200m. What the Government needs to consider and certainly what the Opposition needs to appreciate is that we are talking about extremely large sums of money. 
Whilst it is very easy for the electorate to take the view that in matters of health, education and social welfare, for example, governments should be prepared to spend whatever is necessary, it is extraordinary that when we start to debate matters of defence, suddenly we hear the cry from the Opposition: 'What is the Government doing about it? Why is it not spending more money?' This comes from an Opposition which during its three years in government did nothing at all to demonstrate the slightest degree of interest in the defence of this nation. I only hope that the honourable member for Corio, now that he has the shadow portfolio of defence, will bring to the Opposition a greater degree of interest in this matter than we have seen previously. 
As we are talking about figures, let us see the problem illustrated in terms of Government Budget outlays by function over, say, the last financial year, 1976-77. Appropriations for defence represented 8.8 per cent of Government outlays, education represented 8.9 per cent, health represented 10.6 percent and social security and welfare- wait for it- 27.2 per cent. Of course, other items of expenditure were considerably less. What we simply have to ask the Australian people is: 'Where are those cuts going to be made? What are you prepared to go without so that Australia can have a truly effective defence structure?' As this Parliament will realise in the not too distant future when it hears from the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  when he announces a decision on the TFF, we are speaking of enormous sums of money for which the average citizen probably will not see in the foreseeable future any direct results. We do not have parades down the streets; we do not have great flypasts. Why is this so? It is because, frankly, they cost too much. Our defence establishment at the moment needs every cent it can get its hands on to make sure that it has adequate training facilities and equipment to perform its primary task, which I put to this House is the physical defence and the territorial integrity of Australia in time of threat. 
The role performed by the defence establishment in recent years in the context of coastal surveillance certainly is well up to its capability. But to achieve that objective has meant that men and equipment have been put to functions for which they were not originally designed or trained. This nation must seriously consider whether it is prepared to pay that cost. A possible alternative would be to have a totally new concept, for example, a coastguard, whether it be an adjunct of the defence services, or whether it be a totally civilian operation run by the departments which I mentioned earlier. These are important decisions. On that I agree with the honourable member for Corio. It is indeed very advantageous for this Parliament and for Australia that we appear at last to have reached the stage where the representatives of the Australian people on both sides of this chamber can seriously discuss in a bipartisan manner what is a primary  responsibility of this Parliament, namely, the integrity of Australia. 
I am sorry that I did not have the opportunity to enter into this debate earlier, but I am greatly concerned about certain aspects of the Bill, in particular clause 9. I merely want it to be put on record that, whilst the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  in his second reading speech, spoke about changes which were recommended by the Senate in relation to this clause, I would rather like the opportunity to have explained to me precisely what those changes do with regard to clause 9.I do not think they adequately cover the question of dual nationality, in particular. These matters have been noted by my colleagues on both sides of the chamber, and I merely wish my criticism to rest on that point. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I address my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I preface it by welcoming him back to the chamber. In view of the Minister's recent successful visit to China, can he advise the House which Australian industries, in his view, are able to get greatest access to the Chinese market? 
-I wish to be associated with the Prime Minister's motion of condolence on the death of  Sir Robert  Menzies and to express my deep sympathy to Dame 
Pattie and to his family. I had the honour to meet  Sir Robert  for the first time when I, too, was 12 years old. Like most of my colleagues here I grew up during the Menzies era and he always remained for us the brightest star in the Australian firmament. While we can- in fact, mustleave history to judge his works and deeds, there can be no doubt that he has earned a lasting place in the hearts of the vast majority of the Australian people.  Sir Robert  walked in no man's shadow. He was the quintessence of an outstanding national leader, a man of whom we could be and were immensely proud. 
Last Friday week in Sydney we inaugurated an oration, given by Lord Hailsham, in  Sir Robert's  name. We wanted to do him due honour in the twilight of his life. We were not to know then how short the day would be, but happily  Sir Robert  did live to see that, 12 years after his retirement from public life, the people of Sydney had not forgotten him. He very kindly sent us as his representative his daughter Heather to be with us on that occasion. 

 Sir Robert Menzies loved poetry. As I searched for words to express my feelings adequately and to make a small contribution to his verbal epitaph on this occasion, I came upon these words, which I believe adequately express the essential characteristics of Robert Menzies, the man: 
He has achieved success who: Has lived well, laughed often, and loved much, Who has gained the respect of intelligent men, the trust of women, and the love of little children, Who has filled his niche and accomplished his task, Who has left the world better than he found it, Who has never lacked appreciation for earth's beauty nor failed to express it, Who has always looked for the best in others and given them the best he had, Whose life was an inspiration, his memory a benediction. 
-As Chairman of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, I present the 1 69th report of the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-The 169th report refers to a Department of Finance minute relating to the Committee's 157th report, presented in April 1976, which dealt with items arising from die Committee's examination of the Auditor-General's report for 1973-74. The practice of presenting a Department of Finance minute as a report is the result of arrangements made between the Committee and the Treasury in 1952. The Committee forwards a copy of each of its reports to the Minister for Finance for consideration immediately that report is tabled in Parliament.  His  reply, in the form of a Department of Finance minute, is then examined by the Committee and included in a later report to the Parliament. 
The Department of Finance minute is meant to ensure that the Committee's recommendations are acted upon, and that the Parliament will be informed as soon as possible, where appropriate, of the steps taken to implement the Committee's proposals. In this context, the committee welcomes the announcement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  requiring departments to respond quickly to the recommendations made by parliamentary committees, as some delays have been experienced in the past by the Public Accounts Committee. The Committee is currently considering additional procedures to ensure that its recommendations where appropriate for the improvement of administration in the Public Service are in fact implemented. 
In the 157th report the Committee had been critical of the Department of Defence, the Department of Education, the then Department of Manufacturing Industry and the then Australian Council for the Arts. Tractors were required by the Department of Defence to be air-portable but were subsequently found to have insufficient clearance to fit in aircraft intended to carry them. Further, the Committee noted that the poor design features of transportable homes purchased for the Royal Australian Air Force base made them very expensive to demount and re-locate. 
The Department of Education failed to obtain ministerial approval to extend the broadbanding of incomes when calculating living allowances under the tertiary allowance scheme. The Committee was also critical of the lack of adequate training and supervision, and the high turnover of staff in the salaries area of the departmental adminstration, leading to a very high incidence of errors in payments. In relation to the then Department of Manufacturing Industry, the Committee was particularly critical of aspects of the production performance allowance scheme introduced by the then Department of Supply into its factories in 1964. There was some disagreement between the now Department of Productivity and the Committee over the use of terminology in the Committee's report on this matter. 
I wish to emphasise that the Committee is concerned to obtain at all times complete and accurate information. Evidence to the Committee is given under oath and it is the responsibility of witnesses to ensure that the information provided is correct. The Committee has stated repeatedly that where departments discover that evidence is deficient a supplementary submission should be provided, prior to or during a public hearing, or to clarify and amplify previous evidence. 
The Committee also considered criticism by the Auditor-General of a number of unsatisfactory features relating to the expenditure and activities of the then Australian Council for the Arts. In spite of an apparent general acceptance of the Committee's recommendations by the now Australia Council, the Committee still has reservations as to whether proper controls are being maintained. We propose to keep a close watch on the activities of the Australia Council. 
When I tabled the last reports from the Committee at the end of the 30th Parliament, I drew the Parliament's attention to two matters on which the Committee had not reported. These references are still before us. They are the Committee 's inquiry into the administration and financing of property owned or leased by the Australia Government overseas and the use of automatic data processing in the Commonwealth public sector. In relation to the former the Committee has recently completed the taking of further evidence and will be in a position to report in the Budget session. 
Members should be aware that the Committee regards the inquiry into automatic data processing as an extremely important inquiry. It is a major growth area of Commonwealth expenditure for which no detailed figures are readily available. The cost of Mandata, the first area on which we intend to report, gives some indication of the growing use of computers. The Mandata project is a case study which fits in well with the Committee's terms of reference for the inquiry, which are: 
to investigate computing matters raised by the Auditor-General in his report for the year ending 30 June 1976 and earlier reports. 
) in relation to computing in the Commonwealth public sector- 
inquire into the procedures adopted to identify needs for computing equipment; 
b ) inquire into the procedures in use to procure computing equipment; and 
ascertain in selected cases the utilisation and effectiveness of installed computing equipment. 
I should like to take this opportunity of acquainting the House with the progress of our investigation into Mandata. Mandata is a computer system being developed by the Commonwealth Public Service Board for personnel and establishements covered by the Public Service Act. Its principal purpose is to increase the efficiency of administration and to assist in manpower resource management throughout the Commonwealth Public Service. When complete, Mandata should replace the traditional labourintensive manual record keeping. It is expected by the Public Service Board to effect significant staff reductions and provide a wide range of management-oriented information concerning personnel and establishments. This, it is claimed, will lead to tighter management within departments, permitting further staff savings to be made. 
A feasibility study of Mandata was performed in 1971 by the then Management Services Division of the Public Service Board, which estimated costs of the Mandata project to be $ 10.1m for the equipment and implementation of the system and $2m to $2. 7m per year to operate it. The decision to establish Mandata was taken by the Government in 1974 on the basis of a report of an inter-departmental committee chaired by the Public Service Board, which is responsible for examining the purchase of all computers for departments prior to seeking Cabinet approval. The Government approved in February 1974 expenditure of $7.2m for the purchase of equipment for Mandata, to be spread over three years. However, by June 1 977, when the Public Accounts Committee became interested in this program, the total actual expenditure was $ 13.2m, made up of $ 10.6m for equipment and implementation costs and $ 1 .6m for operating costs. 
Due to the Government's concern at spiralling costs a study was carried out by management consultants in 1 977 and the Public Service Board produced a revised estimate for computer equipment and implementation costs of $25.4m, more than double the 1971 estimate. Operating costs were expected to be $6m per annum, an increase of 120 per cent to 200 per cent on the original estimate. I wish to point out to the House that inflation between 1971 and 1977 accounts for only a part of this large increase. If the effects of inflation are removed by calculating the 1971 estimate at 1977 prices, the 1977 cost estimate for computer equipment and implementation is still more than the 1971 estimate by over 100 per cent or $ 12m. 
A further matter of general concern to the Committee is whether sufficient scrutiny has been exercised over ADP expenditure by statutory authorities which are not required to refer computer proposals to the inter-departmental committee. The original concept of Mandata in 1971 took into account the inclusion of the employees of the then Australian Post Office. However, when the Australian Telecommunications Commission and the Australian Postal Commission were established in 1975 these commissions decided to withdraw and establish their own systems, thereby reducing the total number of personnel to be included in Mandata by approximately half, and also reducing the viability of the project. 
The effect on the cost effectiveness of Mandata following the withdrawal of Telecom and Australia Post concerns the Committee. Of more significance, however, is that these organisations are developing their own equivalent systems, which could cause considerable unnecessary duplication of effort and cost. The Committee proposes to inquire into the reasons why Telecom and Australia Post withdrew from Mandata, what their plans are with regard to their own personnel and establishment systems, what these systems will cost, and whether it would be feasible for them to use Mandata. The Committee also notes that the differences in rules and regulations for the 75,000 defence forces personnel may justify the establishment of a separate system for the defence forces rather than its inclusion in Mandata. The Committee will examine this matter further. 
The Committee is also concerned that there were significant delays and expense involved in establishing a permanent site for the installation of Mandata and the purchase of equipment valued at $750,000, which is now no longer required. We suspect that it is most unlikely that this surplus and obsolete equipment can be sold. The Committee considers that in the public as well as the private sector senior departmental management should be highly involved in the setting of specific goals for computer effectiveness. The Committee therefore intends to examine the extent to which senior departmental management has participated in the assessment of the need for and the planning of projects such as Mandata. 
It would appear that the Public Service Board in 1971 greatly under-estimated the costs of equipment, development, and operational costs of Mandata, as well as the development time scale required. In endorsing the Public Service Board's proposals to proceed, the interdepartmental committee on ADP accepted these underestimates but we have yet to discover the reasons for this decision. As both the Public Service Board and the IDC have a responsibility for reviewing the ADP proposals of other Public Service departments, the Committee will be examining this aspect in detail. According to the Public Service Board, at the time of the initial feasibility study the project seemed to be well justified on direct cost savings alone. It now appears that the project is justified only if the management-oriented information which it will supply can be used to effect overall staff reductions in the Public Service. 
I must stress that an important assumption underlying the calculation of benefits is that improved management in the Public Service resulting from Mandata will yield overall staff savings of 1 per cent, or approximately $1 1.8m per annum at 1977 prices. As the benefit to cost ratio on a present worth basis is 118 to 100, it would appear to the Committee that on previous estimating performance we have good grounds to be sceptical that the anticipated management benefits will occur. The 1977 analysis made by independent consultants is central to the Committee's assessment of the estimates of benefits. The Committee has requested a copy of the consultant's report to allow it to look more closely into the assumptions upon which these management benefits are said to have been made. For the Committee to produce a report which is accurate and fair to all concerned, we believe it is essential for us to have access to the consultants report. I am pleased to be able to advise the House that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has asked the Public Service Board to make the report available to the Committee. Previously we had been formally informed that the report would not be made available on the grounds that such reports are traditionally made on an in-confidence basis to their clients and that reports of inter-departmental committees are regarded as internal working documents and advisings to the Minister. The committee maintains that it is following its traditional path by requesting documents that have a relevant bearing on the implementation of government policy. We do not and have not questioned policy but rather the basis of its effective and economic implementation. 
I conclude by saying that if committees of the Parliament are to function effectively, there needs to be a high degree of trust between the Public Service and the committees. I am unaware of any case in recent years where committees have been irresponsible in the way in which they used confidential information made available to them. It remains of fundamental importance to the effectiveness of Parliament that its committees have access to all information relevant to their reports to this Parliament other than Cabinet documents which must obviously remain the prerogative of the Executive. I commend the report to honourable members. 
-As a citizen of New South Wales I am grievously concerned about trends in my home State. The present Government- the Wran Governmentwas elected in May 1976, and if one reads those of the Press who wish to look into the crystal ball there is reason to believe that another State election is not very far away. But before we reach that stage there is to be in New South Wales a referendum on 17 June to reform the upper House. 
Among the matters which I wish to mention to the House this morning is the fact that the Premier of New South Wales has misused his position to publish- ostensibly with the approval and support of, to use his own words, 'all major political parties in the New South Wales Parliament', a pamphlet which will be distributed, I understand, to every voting citizen in my State. What do we see ? On the front page there is the ever-smiling photograph of the present Premier. 
This pamphlet, which is meant to be apoliticalit is paid for by State taxpayers money- is a pamphlet which is meant to set out, for those who care to read it, the reasons they should vote Yes in that referendum but when we examine it we find it is nothing less than a travesty of the truth. It tells us virtually nothing, contrary to the way in which referenda are carried out in this Parliament where it is normally beholden on the government of the day to permit all parties to contribute to a common pamphlet stating their cases for and against. At this point, in fairness I should mention, there has not been an organised No campaign and I do not believe there will be. Nevertheless I put it to the House that the manner in which taxpayers money was used in the production of this pamphlet is grossly unsatisfactory and a quite clear demonstration of the fact that in New South Wales we have a State Government which will go to all lengths to impress upon the citizens its point of view regardless of honour or integrity. 
What the State Government should have done, what any decent government would have done, was to have brought the Opposition parties in and said, 'This is a pamphlet which we wish to produce. Let us agree on the text and let us get it out.' But no, we had to have  Mr Wran's  photograph on the front which, by any definition, is just cheap political gimmickry. That is what I believe is the substance of the New South Wales State Government. It is a shadow and it lacks substance. 
I was rather interested to read in the  Sydney Morning Herald  this morning an article that the Labor Left apparently hurts  Mr Ducker.  Incidentally,  Mr Ducker  is the New South Wales  President  of the Australian Labor Party. He recently complained that the party's left wing was harming Labor's chances of regaining federal government and he believed that the continued use of the term 'socialism' was unwarranted and basically a sellout of Labor Party principles. This is very interesting, so I went to the Library and took out the Australian Labor Party's Platform, Constitution and Rules. I thought it would be worth while to compare the rules and the constitution of the Labor Party with the exercise being conducted in New South Wales. 
Firstly, we have the State President complaining about the use of the word 'socialism', but then we are told quite clearly that the objective of the Labor Party is to achieve the democratic socialisation of industry, production, distribution and exchange. Of course, there are Labor Party people who do not like those words because it does lose them votes, and at least they demonstrate some pragmatism on the rare occasions when they get the opportunity. The fact is that in New South Wales today there is "a government which likes people to believe that it is slow moving and will not upset the standard conventions of the time. Although it is an Australian Labor Party Government, it says to them: 'Don 't worry, we are really not socialists'. 
Let us look at the record and see what legislation the New South Wales Government has passed since being elected in May 1976. The record is clear. Slow though the New South Wales State Government may be and incompetent though it certainly is, it is as organised on the road to socialism as any political body this country has ever seen.  Mr Walker,  the State Attorney-General, has referred on many occasions in the State House to free enterprise as being 'hogwash'. Is that an appropriate comment from the Attorney-General who is there to uphold the laws of the State? A few months ago  Mr Landa,  the Minister for Planning and Environment, went out of his way, and apparently got some delight out of doing it, to close down north coast mining in New South Wales.  Mr Einfeld,  the Minister for Consumer Affairs, has introduced what can only be called draconian legislation which permits his inspectors to enter any business and call for any documents without prior warning and, what is more significant, without needing even a citizen's complaint. This is draconian-type legislation but it is typical of the laws which are being put on the statute books of New South Wales. 
What has been achieved by  Mr Hills,  the Minister for Mines? He stopped the implementation of the previous government's policy to establish a new coal loader facility in Botany Bay. A few months ago we entered into an interesting arrangement which can only be called quasi nationalisation when he simply told a major coal company, Coal and Allied Industries Ltd, that the State Government would take over 51 per cent of its future mining operations regardless of what the company had previously put into it and regardless of the fact that the company had expended $6m on research and development. At the same time the State Government wants people to believe that their investments in New 
South Wales are safe. What a travesty of the English language! We have seen the same sort of action from the Minister for Lands,  Mr Crabtree.  An amount of $400m was to be collected annually by his department as a result of its intended take-over of all deposits on new and old buildings purchased in New South Wales. So much for the role of the banks; so much for the role of the building societies. 
This week we have seen another example of the economic and administrative inefficiency of the State Government. We have read that over 500 new homes are awaiting a water supply. The New South Wales Housing Commission built the houses in the Campbelltown area but no one can live in them because there is no water supply. That is the sort of incompetence and administrative inefficiency we have seen for too long from this State Government. In terms of coal loading alone, it has imposed a surcharge of about 90c per tonne on its export. Instead of the mining companies being able to freight coal from the southern ports of Port Kembla and Balmain, they have to move the coal to Newcastle. Absolute and utter inefficiency is the hallmark of that Government's administration. But it goes further than that. There has been a proliferation of boards and commissions and perhaps the best example is the Building Licensing Board. Some two years ago it had a staff of ten people but now it has a staff of 300. It collects $4m per annum in licensing fees but $4m is spent on salaries. That is the quality of the Government's efficiency in New South Wales- proliferation after proliferation. 
Regardless of the reports of royal commissions and other bodies on the administration of the New South Wales Government, no attempt has been made to make it more efficient and no attempt has been made to save the taxpayer's money. The Federal Government, through its federalism policy, has given to New South Wales a better deal than the State has ever had in its history- a 17 per cent increase in funding from Federal revenues. Yet we have seen no systematic attempt by the State Government to give the people of that State a better deal. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Is the Government aware of reports that the Russian Navy may gain access to the naval base facilities at Cam Ranh Bay on the coast of Vietnam? Would he agree that such access would affect seriously the strategic balance in the South East Asian and Pacific region? 
Tonight I wish to draw the attention of the Committee to some points regarding the subject which has just been mentioned by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and also by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  Let me emphasise this basic point: There is no fundamental reason why the creation of this Australian Overseas Projects Corporation will conflict with the interests of the Snowy Mountains scheme or any other project of that type. What the honourable member obviously does not know or has not bothered to try to find out is that through the process of government regulation and the existing procedures of interdepartmental consultation, it is already an on-going fact that the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation, which is a similar body, works very closely indeed with departments such as the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Trade and Resources, the Commonwealth Development Bank and other instrumentalities. 
The same principle can be applied to the Australian Industry Development Corporation. When the Opposition was in government it had its chance to make amendments to the AIDC legislation, and it did so. But I do not recall, and I doubt that anyone else who was here in this chamber at that time would recall, that this problem was given any thought. Quite the contrary. As I remember, in those days the whole concept to strengthen the AIDC was to limit the capacity of the private sector. Suddenly we find the Opposition wearing a different hat and we are told that this instrumentality somehow will damage the private sector. Only one governmental organisation is involved in this field overseas and that is, as the Opposition members so rightly pointed out, the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. It has done splendid work in countries such a Thailand. But most of the work it has done has been associated with the Asian Development Bank, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development or other organisations with an aid instrument concept. 
What we are looking for in terms of overseas projects is not just aid but commercial projects, and we are particularly interested in developing projects in the Middle East. Regrettably, I am aware of a number of cases where, because of the indisposition and the slowness of departments to act, we have lost opportunities. In fact we almost lost a major contract in Saudi Arabia a matter of a few days ago. We were saved at the last bell. We hope that the Saudi Arabians will give us the contract. We cannot play around with other nations, and certainly not with other government instrumentalities. The great advantage we will have from establishing this Corporation is that at last we will have a body which can bring together the disparate interests through the Australian economy- the fiscal world, the development world, production in terms of machinery, and so forth- so that we can bring our capacities together and be in a position to sell a project, that is, a turn key operation, a total deal. That is something that we have never been able to do before. Time after time Australian aid funds given to these organisations in fact have been spent on other people's contracts and projects because we have not had the capacity to bid for them and to win them in our own right. 
There have been all sorts of problems, not the least of which of course is the question of insurance, our capacity to guarantee that the work will be completed satisfactorily, and so forth. But amendments which the Government has passed in recent months and amendments which are intended to be passed in the next few days in respect of the EFIC legislation, for example, will go a long way towards solving those problems. The Government's projects in the last 12 months in terms of foreign trade show that if we are to improve our balance of trade, our current account position in particular, we will have to work together as a nation in developing overseas markets and making sure that we can win the contracts which are available and are so lucrative if only we will take up the challenge and try. Now we are going to do this, and suddenly the Opposition is chanting 'Foul; this is not quite good enough'. The Opposition suggested that the Corporation may engage either as principal or agent in the buying and selling of goods overseas but not so as to compete with any Australian organisation. The whole purpose of the amendment proposed by the Opposition is to limit competition. However, the purpose of this legislation is to make sure that the available resources in Australia may be pooled and that we can present a united face to other countries. 
I have no reason to believe as the Opposition suggests that the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation will have any difficulty with this legislation. I have not heard from any person of authority that any problem with this legislation is anticipated. Let me put the situation into context. With the co-operation of the private sector and the support of the Government through this instrumentality we will be able to trade our technology and expertise in areas where we have failed in the past. We have failed because governments in this country, unlike the European Economic Community, the Koreans and America have not, given full co-operation and support to the private sector. Now this is being given let us make sure that we win and hold contracts overseas. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-The  question is: 'That the amendments be agreed to'. All those in favour say 'aye' - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -Order! That is no business of the Chair. The honourable member will resume his seat. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Mr Lionel Bowen's)  be agreed to. 
-On 7 October the people of New South Wales will elect a new State government. As a citizen of the oldest State of the Commonwealth of Australia, I make it quite clear that I am gravely concerned about the future economic and social welfare of that State. Time after time the present State Government has produced policies which, in the long term, are directed at ensuring that New South Wales will become the poor aunt of the Australian Federation. The Commonwealth Government through its federalism policies over the last three years has made a very significant step forward in generating sufficient funds for State governments to ensure that they have the degree of independence which we believe sovereign States should have. For example, the estimated share of Federal Taxes for New South Wales this financial year alone is $ 1,457m. That is over 10 per cent more than the amount New South Wales received last year. We all are well aware that the rate of inflation this year is significantly below that figure. 
Strangely enough, despite the fact that there has been a significant growth in Federal funding, members of this House have continually been told by State Ministers in New South Wales, parents and citizens federations and other groups in the community that the Commonwealth apparently is not carrying out its responsibilities in regard to education. These statements do not take into account the fact that school buildings outlays in New South Wales in 1976-77 were $80m less than they were in 1975-76 when the Liberal Party was last in power. 
-As the honourable member for Mitchell says, it is a straight out confidence trick. That is what has been put over the people of New South Wales. How is it that this House, which authorises approximately 11 per cent of all expenditure on education in New South Wales, should be held responsible for the transgressions of the New South Wales Government when last year $80m less was spent on education in the area of capital works in particular than was spent in 1975-76? That is typical of the performance- if one can call it that- of the present State Government. It is, in fact, no more than a 'do nothing' government. It is big on talk and low on action. 
Let us look at the situation. The economic mismanagement and incompetence in New South Wales will become a matter for national concern if the Labor Government is returned in that State. The New South Wales work force is a classic example. The unemployment rate is now 6. 1 per cent, compared with 4.6 per cent in May 1976. This represents a loss of 38,000 private sector positions, or  6  per cent, in a mere two years of Labor government. At the same time, there has been a magnificent growth in the public sector of 20,000 new positions, created at a cost of $250m. Who pays that $2 50m? The taxpayers of New South Wales and, indirectly, the taxpayers all over Australia pay it. 
In the area of housing, for example, the commencements of houses, home units and commercial buildings show a major downward trend over the last two years. In the field of retail sales there has been a reduction of 9 per cent in two years. The increase in the rate of motor vehicle registrations is now lower in New South Wales than in any other State. The population growth for 1977 demonstrates a reduction of 27 per cent compared with Australia's average. In other words, young people, the very lifeblood of New South Wales, are leaving the State to go elsewhere for opportunities for employment. New investment in 1977 represented only 17 per cent of the Australian total. I draw on information given to this House yesterday by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch).  New South Wales today is lagging in last place among the States in the rate of new investment. Which State is in front? Western Australia is in front, with a per capita investment of $4,2 18. As I said, New South Wales is sixth in that category. 
In the field of new mining investment there is a similar situation. Again, Western Australia with a good Liberal Government is first. New South Wales is lagging in fourth place. In the area of combined manufacturing and new investment in mining the figures tell the same sad story. Western Australia is first; Queensland is second; Tasmania is third; Victoria is fifth; New South Wales is sixth. South Australia, another Labor State, is fourth. What we are facing is simply this: The people of Australia will find themselves living in a continent where there are two types of State- the rich and the poor. The rich Statesthose which encourage private enterprise and maximum investment, both foreign and domestic and those which have the lowest rate of per capita growth. The former will be the LiberalNational Country Party controlled States. The Labor States- South Australia, Tasmania and New South Wales in particular- will be putting their populations in the economic doldrums. 
The situation which existed in New South Wales after some 2 1 years of Labor Government in the 1940s and 1950s will be created once again if the people on 7 October make the fundamental mistake of believing in the mirage of a man who has no substance to his policies and who has brought in a State Budget which to this day has not been passed by Parliament. After the election, if he is successful, reasons will be found for bringing forward a new State Budget. Constitutionally, of course, that is permissible and necessary. But are we to believe that there will be any relationship between what was brought down in Parliament a few weeks ago as the New South Wales ostensible Budget for this financial year and the real Budget? That Budget may well have been a figment of the imagination. The Premier knew perfectly well that it would not have to be put to the test of time because it would not be passed by Parliament. He was well aware of this because he knew that he was going to call a State election. 
What will we see in the next Budget? Will we see a further increase in charges to those which have taken place in the last two years? It is an untruth for the Labor Party to tell its citizens that it has been a government of restraint and that it has held back increases in taxation. I will indicate now the reality of the position. Since the last Liberal Budget in New South Wales- that for 1975-76- taxpayers in that State have had the following tax increases: Motor vehicle registrations have risen by no less than 25 per cent; payroll tax has increased by 3 1 per cent; stamp duty has increased by 49 per cent; land tax has increased by 31 per cent; tobacco tax has increased by 216 per cent; racing tax has increased by 38 per cent; liquor tax has increased by 60 per cent; and motor dealer tax has increased by 45 per cent. Yet we are told that New South Wales has a government which has held the line, which has demonstrated fiscal responsibility and which has not brought the people of New South Wales any significant increases in costs of living. 
-Bread and milk prices went up too. The ordinary man in the street, the ordinary married man with children who has had to face the problems of inflation under the Labor Government and who now is at least seeing over the hill, thanks to the Federal grants policies, has to pay a higher rate of indirect taxation than people in any other State. The matter does not end there. There have been other increased charges. Mining leases went up by 200 per cent. Waterfront charges went up by 20 per cent to 150 per cent. Annual return fees on company annual reports went up by 233 per cent to 900 per cent. But we are told that investment in New South Wales is secure. 
The figures I have quoted in this House this morning and the figures quoted yesterday by the Minister for Industry and Commerce demonstrate conclusively that anybody wanting to invest in new companies and expansion in Australia today will not give New South Wales serious consideration. Such people know that to invest in that State is to risk the future of their enterprises. On 7 October the people will vote for two Houses of Parliament for the first time in the history of New South Wales. I believe that they will demonstrate the good sense that they have demonstrated in Federal elections. They will make sure that, whoever governs in the lower House of the New South Wales Parliament, they will have an upper House which can express an independent view and which will take a second look at legislation passed by the Government in the lower House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-To make any sense at all of the convoluted logic of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  would require that I was a Nobel Prize winner in atomic physics. Since I do not claim capacities in that field I merely want to bring back to this debate the degree of logic which was introduced into it by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  It was plain from the Minister's opening statement that the problem of plutonium waste disposal in the Maralinga area has been handled in the best interests of the Australian people, and no matter what the Opposition has cared to say to refute this it has utterly failed to do so. 
We have just heard an ex-Minister of the previous Administration admit in this House that the Ministers of that Administration were incapable of controlling the bureaucracy which was meant to advise them in the first place. We were told earlier by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  when Minister for the Environment and Conservation, established on behalf of the Labor Government the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council. If he was doing his job, if the Council was doing its job and if he was able to advise Cabinet of what that organisation was all about, he most certainly would have been in a position to know what was going on at Maralinga. Let us get the situation in perspective. This is Australia. It is not the United States of America, Great Britain or France. We have no massive industry here involved in plutonium or atomic physics. We do not have a major problem of waste disposal at this stage. But we have allowed this debate, led essentially by the honourable member for Reid, to become a massive emotional issue. 
It is a total example of scaremongering. We are trying to demonstrate, and it has been effectively demonstrated ever since the early atomic testing commenced at Maralinga and later at Emu, that at all times, within the confines of known scientific knowledge of the time, all actions were taken to ensure that the necessary protective measures were introduced at those locations. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  quoted a news release of the British High Commission out of context. Let me put the matter into context. The news release stated: 
Nuclear experimentation at Maralinga ended in 1963, after which is was decided to decontaminate the site. The detailed requirements for this operation were laid down by the Australian authorities and these were fully implemented by the UK in 1 967. When independent Australian surveys had confirmed that the site was radiologIcally safe, a Termination Agreement ending the arrangements for British use of the atomic weapons proving ground at Maralinga was signed in September 1 968. 
I trust that we are all aware of the problems associated with atomic waste. But let me make a simple reference to the work of  Mr Justice  Parker who, in commenting in his report on the United Kingdom Windscale inquiry, made this observation: 
It is not true that plutonium is highly radioactive. Its principal isotope, plutonium 239, is relatively stable and as a consequence its halflife is very long and its radioactivity per unit mass very low. 

 Mr Justice Parker went on to say: 
It is not true that in all circumstances very small amounts of plutonium are lethal. Insoluble particles when inhaled are certainly hazardous in small quantities. Considerably larger amounts could be eaten without appreciable harm. 
The honourable member for Reid has talked about the effects of radiation on the health of Aborigines, the policemen and other personnel who have been working in this area and so forth. He apparently wishes to ignore the simple fact that the health survey which was conducted in the area of personnel involved in those projects in 1972 and the survey which is now being conducted again by the AIRAC shows that, on the earlier definition of the evidence, there is nothing whatsoever to demonstrate that the plutonium in the ground, which is buried considerably below the surface of the area, and is surrounded by metal and concrete, has demonstrated any physical ill effects on personnel within the general area. The AIRAC is conducting another survey which is in the process of being completed. I hope that we will see the results of it in the near future. But at this point there is absolutely no evidence- I emphasise that there is no evidence at all- for the honourable member for Reid to make allegations of this type in the Parliament. 
The survey of as early as August 1972 demonstrates quite clearly the total sense of responsibility of this Administration in terms of the wellbeing of the Aboriginal community and the personnel involved in these projects. 
Let us look at the other two questions which are raised in this glorious motion of censure of the Government which has been moved by the Opposition. Firstly, it deals with the disposal of plutonium. I made the point earlier that Australia, unlike other nations, is not a primary user of large quantities of radioactive substances. At this point in time we do not have a major problem of knowing what we will do with it, but what has been decided through negotiation between the Commonwealth Government and the States is that the States are responsible for solving this problem within the definition of their boundaries. As far as the Australian Atomic Energy Commission is concerned they are perfectly able to solve the problem of the disposal of nuclear waste on their own. The third point raised by the Opposition is that we need to establish a nuclear safeguards, safety and securities commission. Again, the Opposition has simply chosen to ignore the fact that the Australian Safeguards Office, which has already been established, is the body which in fact dictates how the Australian Government is to maintain standards acceptable to the Australian Atomic Energy Agency and other international bodies, to maintain standards in accordance with the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and other agreements. 
This is exactly the sort of organisation this country needs. We do not need a massive commission. We do not need the type of organisation which exists in the United States of America because the ground rules relevant to this nation's involvement in this area are so totally different to what are found in other countries. Quite clearly, the situation is similar to that which we find so often in this House. The Opposition is basing its argument in this case on what is nothing more than a leaked Cabinet document. That document having been leaked, various people- of course, members of the Opposition are certainly not angels in this field- have demonstrated their capacity to quote it out of context and to use bits and pieces of it to support a case which cannot stand up under close scientific examination. We may soon reach the situation when Cabinet submissions will have to be written not for the benefit of the Ministers of the government of the day but for the benefit of the media because within 24 hours of such submissions being written the person responsible has to be prepared to defend himself before the television cameras, on radio and in the newspapers of Australia. 
I put it quite fundamentally that no government, irrespective of its political colour, will be able to conduct its affairs in the interests of the Australian nation if time after time we allow ourselves to become baited on the hook- that is all we are doing- of some person who wishes to leak a matter which is in fact a Cabinet document and a Cabinet secret. The Opposition today is encouraging civil servants and other people to break the law. The Opposition is prepared to do this because it does not have the capacity in its ranks to oppose the Government on constructive grounds. It expects civil servants who are supposed to have taken an oath of loyalty to breach that sacred trust to serve its short-term petty political aims. That is all members of the Opposition stand for. They are not interested in the welfare of Australia, they are not interested in the system of Parliament and they are not interested in the Westminster system of government. 
At no time has the Minister raised in this House a current or imminent threat in terms of access to the plutonium which has been found in the area of Maralinga. Should access be gained to plutonium waste, the submission put forward by the Minister makes it quite clear what the position will be. Should at any time in the future some unforseen circumstance show that it is possible to gain access to the material, even though at the present time with given technology this is not so, obviously it is the responsibility of the government of the day to take every conceivable protective device necessary to ensure that the interests of the Australian people are always covered. That is precisely what the Minister did. If he had not prepared that Cabinet submission, if he had been prepared to go along, as the Opposition was when in government, painfully unaware of the realities and then to come into the Parliament years later and say: 'We did not know because nobody told us', and if he was to demonstrate an incapacity as a Minister, the Opposition would have something to argue about. The Minister went to the Cabinet because he had the facts. He had to put them on the record. What is so sad in terms of the future of this country is that no longer can a secret document be regarded with the sanctity that it should be regarded when it is taken before a Cabinet and considered by the elected government of the day. 
According to new criteria of the International Atomic Energy Agency- the IAEA- which the Whitlam Administration agreed to accept in 1974, the Government has been required to examine all records of previous nuclear experiments to see whether any contaminated material was buried in Australia in relation to which the new and very rigid criteria of the IAEA could perhaps apply. As I have said, we were required to do that under the NPT and as a signatory to the IAEA agreement. As a Government, we have carried out our responsibility, which is what the Opposition, when in government, flatly refused to do. Honourable members opposite now stand up and defend themselves for their inaction by saying that they did not know the gun was loaded. Obviously, the IAEA requires that any recoverable plutonium must be adequately safeguarded. The Agency's new rigid criteria were framed for the very reason that it appreciated that what might be unthinkable today could nevertheless become a possibility at some time in the future. If the plutonium is recoverable it will be recovered but it is the only viable position that this Government, in all conscience, could take on this particular matter. I commend the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  for the lucidity of his explanation. In relation to this matter the people of Australia have nothing to fear but fear itself, a fear which is being generated on this occasion by an utterly irresponsible Opposition which when in government had access to all the files, to exactly the same files to which the Government has access today. Members of the Labor Government chose not to act, perhaps because they could not read. That is for them to decide. They should not come in here three years later and complain, because when they were in Government, when they had the responsibility for the welfare of the Australian people, they demonstrated a total incapacity to carry it out. 
An allegation has also been made by the honourable member for Reid and others that perhaps Great Britain breached the moratorium on nuclear explosions in the atmosphere. There is no evidence that he has put forward, there is no evidence that any member of the Opposition has put forward this evening, to demonstrate that any nuclear experiments conducted after the completion of nuclear tests in the atmosphere breached in any sense the moratorium on nuclear explosions. I accept the statement of the British Government and I quote it for what it is. The British Government has stated that no atomic devices were exploded during the moratorium on nuclear weapons testing between 19S8 and 1961. I accept that not merely on trust but because I believe that it is logical that that position should be accepted. It is not entirely beyond credibility that the British could have detonated an atomic bomb in the atmosphere at the 
Maralinga-Emu area and concealed the explosion from every one of the many Australian scientists, officials and servicemen who were present but how is it then that at every single nuclear test over those years many Australians were present as scientists, servicemen and organisers of the explosion sites? They know what it looks like. They know what the mushroom cloud of an atomic test is all about. Now we are being told that somehow or other the British Government may have conducted secret clandestine tests on Australian soil surrounded by Australian scientists and servicemen. As I said, if there is any logic at all in the argument of the Opposition, it is quite obvious that it will not stand up to close examination in this case. 
In 1968 the British Atomic Energy Weapons Research Establishment made a report concerning material buried at Maralinga. That report, as the Minister has pointed out already, was the Pearce committee report. It was accepted by the Australian Government and last year, 1977, the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council appointed a further ad hoc committee to consider the material buried at Maralinga. The Government has done all that can be done to make sure that the situation is totally safe for all those concerned. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The discussion this evening on this most important subject has demonstrated to all those who have cared to listen the sad fact that the so-called alternative government of this great land of ours is totally bereft of any capacity or serious suggestions as to how to overcome this very serious problem which the nation is facing. I refer, of course, to the question of unemployment. We have been told by numerous speakers on the other side of the House that for members of the Government to allude to that catastrophic history that befell this nation between 1972 and 1974 was just an aberration, part of our imagination, and not to be taken seriously. I will not shout on this occasion as members of the Opposition are shouting and I would be grateful if they would perhaps just sit back and listen to the facts of the situation. Five actions which were taken during that period must be seen in the context of the present major unemployment situation. These are as follows: the upward valuation of the dollar in December 1972, the across the board tariff cuts of 25 per cent in July 1973, the massive wage cost increases in 1974, the reaction of that Government towards any serious attempt at increasing the degree of foreign investment in Australia's productive capacity and, for good measure, record interest rates and a record rate of inflation which had not faced this country since the 1880s. 
-For the few months during the Korean War. Let us keep the situation in context. The position, therefore, is that we are today trying to rebuild an economy which, by the end of 1974, by any reasonable yardstick was in a catastrophic situation. The improvements for which we are looking are still not as satisfactory as we would like them to be. But we cannot create a miracle overnight and what we had during that time, combined with the international realities, such as the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries' decision to raise oil prices by some hundreds of per cent, a major fall in consumer demand by the main European Economic Community markets, had a considerable impact on Australia's capacity to produce and capacity to sell. These situations are still with us today. The EEC countries are still groping to find a new formula, a new way, of overcoming these major economic problems which the developed world has faced over the last five years. A continual fall in the value of the United States dollar, for example, is not only creating problems in terms of the balance of trade for countries such as Australia - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)-A  certain amount of latitude has been allowed - 
-As a matter of fact there is no question that they are. I am setting the scenario for the policies which have been introduced by this Government to help overcome the problem of unemployment which was caused by gentlemen like the honourable gentleman opposite who thinks he knows everything but demonstrates that he knows nothing. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Bradfield has been here long enough to know that when the  Chairman  is speaking he should resume his seat. He has not even given me the opportunity to rule on the point of order raised by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. All he has done is to cut down his own speaking time. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports has raised a point of order that the honourable member for Bradfield is not speaking to the terms of the debate. A certain amount of latitude has been allowed to all speakers by the Chair. I ask the honourable member for Bradfield to try to relate his remarks more than he has been doing to the estimates that are before us. 
If we take the figures for unemployment and analyse them to see exactly what areas in particular have the greatest problems in finding jobs at present, we find certain characteristics. These people lack skills; they lack work experience; they usually have broken job histories; and, above all, they have low levels of education. While the honourable member opposite might accuse  my  colleague of bringing up this question, the fact is that the problem which is a major sociological one is not simply a question of reflating the economy and therefore making jobs. That sort of simplistic attitude got us into precisely the mess in which we are in today. Anyone who does not want to face that economic and historical reality has no right to sit in this chamber and say ostensibly that he is representing an electorate of the Australian people, people who, incidentally, have demonstrated a lot more common sense than he ever has. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I cannot rule in favour of the honourable member for Corio. 
-The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  made a certain number of points when he made a statement a few weeks ago- a very courageous statement- which put to the Australian people the realities of the position facing us. He said that if we were to try to achieve the pre- 1 974 situation in the labour market, we would be looking towards an increasing labour force as a result of immigration of some 20,000 people a year, a return to the pre- 1974 trend in female participation rates, which is considerably below what it is now, no change in the participation of young people and education in the work force, respectively, and no normal additional participation following an increase in the demand for labour. The simple facts facing us are that we are at present seeing a demographic bulge which simply means that the young people who were born in the 1950s are now coming onto the labour market. That was a period of increased fertility in the Australian population which has not been equalled since those days. 
The problem we are facing is not only technological. There are people who would seriously suggest- I have heard it suggested from honourable members on the other side- that we should take a Luddite approach and destroy all the machinery and somehow or other turn back the historical process. The fact is that we will have to live with technology; we will have to live with the situation that unless we can make a significant improvement in the quality of our work force we will have to have a percentage of people who will not be employable in the foreseeable future. The experience of the organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development- we are now in the fortunate position of being able to learn from its four years of experience if we wish to do so- has demonstrated that of programs directed at supporting young people and, for that matter, all sections of the community, must be directed at two levels. Firstly they must be directed at job support, job creation and work experience. Those three major areas must be regarded in this context. 
To date the Government has introduced the Community Youth Support scheme which, in a sense, has been very successful. Perhaps some of the problems faced by this type of program are caused because it is monolithic. It lacks some degree of flexibility. There is a case for such flexibility to be introduced. If the OECD experience is to be followed- I recommend that it should be followed- what we will need and will see over the next year or so is an increased number of community-based schemes which would have incorporated in them a close affinity with community groups, social welfare organisations, local government, et cetera. Fundamentally, unless we can assist communities to have sufficient capacity to create employment opportunities it is no good sitting in Canberra and somehow being able to say that the rest of 
Australia will do as it is told. That is not how this nation has ever worked. 
In the next few weeks the Federal Government will be entering into significant negotiations with the States to enable them to spend funds which are gained on the international loan market and which will be directed at job creation. Members on both sides of this House have made the point that perhaps more funds should be spent in capital works programs which are directed at job creation. 
If the honourable member would listen to what I have just said, I will repeat it. The negotiations which are about to be entered into with the States are precisely directed at allowing them to borrow funds on the international money market which they may then invest in capital works projects within their areas of administration. That is where the problem will be solved, not in Canberra. It will be solved at the grass roots of the Australian people. The major factor that we need is to make the Austraiian people appreciate the immensity of the problem and, from their appreciation, we can work together at finding solutions. It is no good simply standing on top of the pile and saying that other people must do as they are told. The Australian people have overcome greater problems in the past and will certainly, as a nation, find solutions to them in the present. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon nonce, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that approximately 60 per cent of an average trading day 's mail is posted after 4 p.m. in Sydney. 
Is it also a fact that most of the mail referred to in part ( 1 ) is sorted and dispatched by the Redfern Mail Exchange as opposed to being handled locally. 
Is it more expensive for the Australian Postal Commission to process mail through the Redfern exchange than it would be to process mail locally at the point of posting; if so, what is the extra expense. 
If it is not more expensive, how much cheaper is the use of the Redfern exchange. 
Does the fact that mail is posted after 4 p.m. mean that it will be delivered by the next day; if not, what likelihood is there that this mail will be delivered on the next day. 
What would be the result of processing mail locally instead of at Redfern if post office hours were extended to 6 p.m. by adopting a scheme of flexitime for Commission employees. 
Will he direct the Commission (a) to reintroduce Saturday opening of post offices and (b) to make deliveries of local mail twice daily. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the Government has maintained that its economic policies will bring about a revival of employment opportunities by making Australian industry more competitive? Does he have any evidence to indicate that these policies are working? 
-The legislation before the House is, without doubt, one of the most important pieces of legislation which any parliament under the Westminster system has the opportunity to debate. I go so far as to say that it is key legislation for Parliament to be able to maintain its position as watchdog over the affairs of the Executive. While over the years there has been a case made- and with some justification- that parliaments in fact have abrogated much of their power and their capacity to overview the Executive, it is for that reason that I believe a significant set of amendments, as put forward in this legislation, requires very careful examination. 
I congratulate the Government and the officers of the various departments who have been involved in the drafting of this legislation. It is extremely comprehensive; at the same time, it is very technically competent. Nevertheless, there are a number of concepts in it which, as my colleague on the other side of the House who has just spoken, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  pointed out, perhaps require further detailed examination at the Committee stage of the Bill. I point out that this legislation was presented to this Parliament, more or less in its present form, as far back as 29 April 1976. However, for reasons of which the House is well aware, it was withdrawn and major amendments were made, not the least of which is the provision for the concept of efficiency audits. Now, once again, we have the Bill before us. It has, as I also pointed out, a very important place in the statutes because it provides for the audit of the Government's accounts and sets down important controls which are fundamental to accounting of receipts and payments under the control of the departments of state. Not least of all, the Audit Act gives to Parliament the capacity itself to overview the Executive in that regard. 
Audit legislation, as I see it, must always be responsive to the needs of the growth of the civil service and to budgetary increases which have been an interminable fact of life this century, because government as we understand it is becoming more and more complicated year after year. For that reason there is no point applying what are essentially 19th century concepts in a day of computerisation and technology, high specialisation and so forth. These areas have not in many respects been adequately covered by the existing Audit Act. 
If I might make specific reference to certain points in the Bill, I would like to draw the attention of the House in particular to clause 5. This is very significant. At last we see provided in legislation the fact that the permanent head of a department must in law be responsible for making appropriate arrangements for the implementation not only of the Audit Act but also for the manner in which the finance regulations and directions are carried out by his department. Strange though it may seem, and somewhat quaint in terms of the realities of the parliamentary processes, and those of government, existing legislation to date has made no reference to the responsibilities of a permanent head in relation to the financial management of his department. How this has managed to persist for so many years bedevils the imagination. Fortunately departmental heads have, of course, taken it as a fact of life that they are responsible for the financial management of their departments. Nevertheless, this legislation closes the loopholes and classifies once and for all the fact that they are legally responsible. 
As Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee and a member of that Committee for nearly five years I think I should point out to the House that the Committee in a number of reports presented to this Parliament has expressed the view that the question of accountability has been a very real problem. There have been cases when public funds have not been adequately accounted for, and not spent in the most efficient and effective manner because of the weaknesses of the existing system in that regard. 
I would also like to refer to the Minister's power to approve acts of grace payments. I think there are members probably on both sides of the House who have some difficulties with the provisions of clause 25. The basic problem is that I am not convinced and I think it would be fair to say that the Public Accounts Committee is not convinced, that the provisions as they currently stand would guarantee under all circumstances that acts of grace payments made by Ministers on the advice of officials should always remain in the category of secret dealings. The difficulty we face is that the Auditor-General, for reason which I think I understand, has taken the view that it is not his responsiblity to get involved in what he sees as the political decisions of government. I certainly appreciate that point of view. The Committee of which I am the  Chairman,  suggested to the Government a formula by which, if there were any specific difficulties in this area and if Parliament itself, in a general context, was not to be allowed to have access to this information, perhaps at least a senior committee of the Parliament such as the Public Accounts Committee could be brought into the confidence of the Government. 
The fact remains, however, that what is and what is not a political decision in this context is not a question I could answer here tonight. It is one essentially for Ministers and for Cabinet to decide. I would just like to place on record my belief that this aspect of the legislation could perhaps be more effectively improved. Ultimately we are responsible to the electorate for the expenditure of public funds and whilst it can be said that ex gratia payments are private between government and the individuals concerned, I have a strong view that the electorate would expect some part of their representatives forming the Parliament as members of a specialist committee of the Parliament should perhaps be given some degree of trust in this regard. I should say on behalf of my colleagues that to my knowledge there has never been a single case where any confidential information passed to the Public Accounts Committee by any government has ever become public knowledge. I think we can stand on our record in that regard. 
The surcharge power is perhaps the most difficult element of this legislation which has yet to be dealt with. The basic fact, of course, is that the Auditor-General has complained for many years that the existing Act in fact prevents him from taking legal action against officers who have breached through negligence, misconduct and so forth, Treasury regulations with regard to major loss of funds or of equipment. The difficulty we are facing, however, is the question of establishing fault or neglect and as was pointed out by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  there is a legal question involved here which cannot be ignored. The Public Accounts Committee has not had the advantage of a legal opinion on this matter from the Solicitor-General. Nevertheless, we have sought some advice from the Parliamentary 
Library staff in this regard and they have advised us: 
There would appear to be no legislative parallel or precedent for the use of the term 'gross negligence' in any statute concerning this particular area of Public Service regulation. 
What one would therefore suspect is that in a court of law the difficulty of proving what is gross negligence would be virtually so insurmountable that I would suggest the difficulties of applying the surcharge powers under the amended legislation would in fact be almost as bad as the existing law. This is a difficult area. We acknowledge that. However, the use of terminology in legislation such as audit Bills in particular is of great importance and deserves the considerable thought of both advisers to government and of the Parliament itself. 
I would like now to refer to the question of efficiency audits which is without doubt the innovative aspect contained in this legislation. The Australian efficiency audit exercise was essentially based on the experience of the United States Government. We had in Australia last year  Mr Elma  Staats, the United States Controller-General who came from Washington and gave us considerable advice in this matter. I had the satisfaction of being included from the proposal's inception. I met with the Government's working party which prepared the report which was later tabled in this Parliament. What we are trying to achieve in terms of efficiency audits of departments, statutory authorities and government-owned companies is quite radical because previously the Auditor-General was restricted absolutely, in terms of legislation at least, to financial or regulatory audits. He has in fact in recent reports, as honourable members will no doubt be aware, gone somewhat beyond this very strict interpretation of the regulations. It is because of that that the amendments had to be included in this legislation. The important thing is that the Auditor-General is now moving into the area of statutory authorities and governmentowned companies. Whereas in the past, with the singular exception of the Australian Industry Development Corporation, he has had the power to conduct regulatory audits only of statutory authorities and some goverment-owned companies, though certainly not all, under this legislation he in fact will have a much greater capacity to range over the entire area of government expenditure. 
I should also point out that, whereas two committees of this Parliament have the capacity to investigate all areas of government expenditure in accordance with the terms of reference given to them by this Parliament, the Public Accounts Committee, in accordance with its existing Act, is quite specifically limited to matters referred to by the Auditor-General or to the expenditure of departments of state. We are therefore legally under considerable restraints in our capacity to look at statutory corporations. Certainly we would have great difficulty in looking at various government funded public companies and so forth. We hope that amendments to the Public Accounts Committee Act which the Committee put up to the Government some 12 months ago will see the light of day in the near future. 
The difficulty, however, with efficiency audits, is, as I mentioned earlier, a question of terminology. The Royal Commission on Government Administration, which is one of the planks upon which the amendments to this particular Bill have been based, pointed out that we need the development of a system of forward estimates and so forth which could be examined by various committees of this House. 
It also pointed out that the area of efficiency audits would have to be brought in so that expenditure of funds at the administrative level, not at the level of programs per se, should be examined to see whether the evaluation of procedures had been conducted in a manner which was economic and efficient in the use of resources. Clause 3 of the Bill seeks to add a new sub-section (4) (a) and (b) to section 2 defining efficiency audits. The actual terminology used is rather interesting. Reference is made in proposed new sub-section 4 (a) to an evaluation of the procedures and departments used to determine economy and efficiency in the use of resources. Proposed new sub-section (4) (b) of section 2 refers to the evaluation of whether the functions examined are being carried on in an economic and efficient manner. So it is a value judgment whether (a) is more important than (b), and I do not think that it is of any particular importance to argue the question on that basis. 
Nevertheless, the importance of the AuditorGeneral's staff being in a position to evaluate the efficiency and managerial control systems of departments is something of great importance. It presumes that the systems of departments are OK, provided staff who are of the appropriate classifications are available. The quality of staff is also taken into account. Unfortunately, the reality of life is that no department of State is able to say at all times that it has the most efficient managerial system being applied to various areas of government policy. Therefore, I would suggest that the primary emphasis on efficiency audit authority should rather be to evaluate whether financial and other resources are being used in the most economic and efficient manner. If primary emphasis is placed on evaluating efficiency rather than on managerial control systems, I would suggest that that would be more likely to be the objective to which the AuditorGeneral should, in the early stages at least, be directing his efforts. 
The difficulty that the Auditor-General faces is that at this time there are very few people in Australia with the technical skills able to enter into this very specific area. He is building the numbers up; he is seeking them from the private sector; he is seeking them from other departments of state and of course from the AuditorGeneral's own office. The Joint Committee of Public Accounts has for many years had a very close relationship with the Auditor-General, and I might say that it has been a very happy one indeed. I wish him well in this very important area. Nevertheless, in the first few years we would not anticipate that perhaps more than two or three efficiency audits at the most would be conducted per year because of the staffing problem and the need to ensure that the results of an efficiency audit could be effectively implemented. 
This is where the Parliament comes in. At the present time there are no less than three committees which have an interest in the overview of government efficiency and financial areas. I refer of course to the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, the Expenditure Committee of this House and also to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. It is not possible, for reasons which all honourable members should be aware, to draw a finite and clear distinction between exactly what other committees will do in this particular area. But the report tabled by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  some months ago clarified the fact that the Government was prepared to take the view that the Expenditure Committee of this House and the Joint Committee of Public Accounts would be the two Committees of Parliament which would take on the responsibility for vetting and considering in further detail the efficiency audits tabled in this House by the Auditor-General. We have not at this stage had the opportunity to decide between ourselves exactly how this matter will be handled. It is far too premature at this time to take the matter any further. 
Nevertheless, it is important. We do not want to be placed in a position where we are simply going to repeat the work already conducted by the Auditor-General. Perhaps the most significant area we could look at- and in my own experience there have been many cases of this- is that where departments say that reports of the Auditor-General have been unfair or have not been based on the principles which they think are sound administrative practice. Perhaps this is an opportunity for the committees of the Parliament to come in and take the role of an adjudicator and settle the matter and make an appropriate and a final report to Parliament. I emphasise the word 'final' because in the Public Accounts Committee area for many years we have had the advantage of a system called the Department of Finance Minutes or, as it was initially, the Treasury Finance Minutes which are tabled in this House and which are the ultimate result of the initial report tabled by the Public Accounts Committee and which are then further examined by departments. We have not found this to be a totally satisfactory area and we hope that in due course the Parliament will permit us to have an additional staff position at least to enable the Public Accounts Committee of its own right to be able to conduct its own, shall we say, audits', on the recommendations made by us to the Parliament on reports that have gone through in the past. This is a matter of the greatest importance if we are effectively to be seen to be on top of a large bureaucratic machine which has demonstrated- and this is shown quite clearly from the Auditor-General's report on an annual basis- that there are major problems in efficiency which cannot be overlooked at any time if we are to have an efficient system of government in this country. 
They are the basic matters that I want to raise. As I said, I regard this legislation as being of considerable importance. There are other minor matters, for example, clause 41 amends section 49 of the principal Act with regard to the monthly statement of receipts and expenditure of public moneys in a manner and a form to be determined by the Minister. The Minister, in his statement to the House, stated that there may be some doubt whether the Minister should have the right to determine what information in fact goes to Parliament in this form. But I venture to suggest that the provisions enacted in this legislation, by which it will be necessary for any amendments subsequently carried out to be given the same treatment as other amendments to legislation, is probably an adequate means of control. For my own part, I take the view that the existing statement is satisfactory and I am sure that members of this House would not look kindly upon any major amendments to detract from the information already contained in them. 
The other matters which are worth mentioning are minor ones. Clause 54 provides for a new part to be inserted to make provision for the audit by the Auditor-General of certain authorities established under an Act or ordinance. I made reference of this earlier. I regard this as a most significant step forward. Also in this Bill there is the repeal of existing Section 70B of the principal Act which will prevent Treasurers in future from guaranteeing loans made by specified banks for purposes of the Commonwealth. I see this as a most significant step forward and I commend the Government for accepting this provision. Clause 59 has one small problem. Here we have a case where the Minister is authorised to waive the recovery of amounts of money which are legally recoverable but which, for good reason, ought not to be recovered. This is one of those examples of gobbledegook which one finds in legislation of this type. Again I request that serious consideration be given to what is an effective definition in law of 'good reason' because again we have the question of value judgments being introduced. Reference was made earlier to the question of the accounts under examination of security organisations such as the Joint Intelligence Organisation, the Australian Security Intelligence Service, the Commonwealth Police, and so on. There are quite good and perfectly valid security reasons why such accounts should not be subject to public scrutiny in the Parliament. But in so commenting I merely make the point that over the years America's Central Intelligence Agency accounts have been quite difficult. 
-I present the 170th, 171st, 172nd and 173rd reports of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
-by leave-The 170th Report comprises Department of Finance minutes relating to three Committee reports tabled in 1975 and 1977. The practice of presenting finance minutes was introduced as the result of an administrative arrangement made in 1953 by the then  Chairman,  Professor F. A. Bland and the Treasurer,  Sir Arthur  Fadden. The finance minute procedure ensures that action on the Committee's recommendations and conclusions are followed up by relevant departments and reported on to Parliament. These minutes refer to the Committee's earlier reports about delays in occupancy of leased premises- the Committee's 153rd report- expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer for the financial year 1975-76-our 163rd Report-and the Committee's report on the Auditor-General's Report for 1974-75-the Committee's 165th Report. 
The Committee has been concerned for some time over the delays in finalising Department of Finance minutes. We are pleased to note that the response to its reports in most cases has been reduced to about 12 months, which is a considerable improvement. The Committee expects to be informed of completed action taken on its recommendations. We would hope that following the recent statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on the handling of parliamentary committee reports that the period can be reduced further. 
The 1 7 1 st report relates to the Committee 's inquiry into matters raised by the Auditor-General in his reports for the financial year 1976-77. We were disturbed at the number of statutory authorities, government-owned companies and other bodies which had not submitted financial statements to the Auditor-General for examination and the tendency for many not even to report annually to this Parliament. As a consequence, Parliament has been denied details about their operations, despite the fact that there is a statutory requirement for audited financial statements to be included with annual reports. For example, the Darwin Community College had not formally submitted financial statements to the Auditor-General since the creation of the College in July 1973. 
The Committee also heard evidence relating to a claim by the Department of Construction that the Department had been criticised by the Auditor-General in a public document based on conclusions and assumptions made without the benefit of professional technical advice. The Department had sought the Attorney-General's advice on the extent to which the Audit Act authorises the Auditor-General to report on matters which are not related to financial procedures or the actual expenditure of funds. From the evidence presented to the Committee it was clear the Auditor-General was not exceeding his authority in reporting as he did. A legal opinion obtained from the Attorney-General's Department affirmed the Auditor-General's right to report in the terms that he did.  His  conclusions were reasonable in view of the delays he experienced in obtaining relevant information from the Department of Construction. 
In Darwin the Committee heard evidence from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Department of Education on their failure to carry out a Cabinet decision relating to the rental of Commonwealth owned houses in the Territory. On the basis of evidence presented to the Committee by departments the Committee is concerned about the adequacy of processes by which departments are consulted in the preparation of Cabinet submissions and the manner in which Cabinet decisions are later notified, if at all, to departments. The Committee doubts the adequacy of current procedures for ensuring the implementation of Cabinet decisions. We believe that a simple central system to monitor progress in the implementation of decisions should be established. We do not question the arrangement whereby each Minister is responsible for implementing Cabinet decisions which have an impact in the area of his portfolio. However, there do not appear to be any administrative procedures controlled by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet ensuring that all departments are informed of relevant decisions and giving them an opportunity to comment on relevant Cabinet submissions in advance. 
As part of its inquiry into the AuditorGeneral's reports, the Committee also heard evidence from officers of the Department of Defence, the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, the Australian Wheat Board and the Superannuation Board. The 173rd report relates specifically to evidence taken in connection with items of expenditure from the advance to the Minister for Finance in 1977-78. As honourable members are aware, after the close of each financial year the Minister for Finance submits to Parliament a statement of expenditure from the Advance to the Minsiter for Finance showing allocations to heads of expenditure made by him under section 36a of the Audit Act. The Committee received explanations from departments on each item shown in the Minister's statement. In all, we examined 98 departmental explanations and sought additional information by public examination on four of them. We found that, generally, expenditure from the Advance was confined to urgent and unforeseeable requirements for which provision could not have been made in the Appropriation Acts. 
I wish to draw the attention of honourable members to the introductory chapter of this report which, for the first time and with the help of one of our observer organisations, gives a more detained explanation of the history and operation of the Advance to the Minister for Finance. On behalf of the Committee I am pleased to present the Committee's 172nd report, 'Financing and Administration of Property Owned or Leased Overseas by the Commonwealth Government'. We began this investigation a little over two years ago confident that we would be able to finish it in a short time. However, due to many circumstances, not the least of which was a fundamental change in administrative arrangements in the midst of our inquiry made without our knowledge the inquiry had to be extended. Since 1971 administrative control over overseas property has been in no less than five departments. This further transfer emasculated the former Overseas Property Bureau into a branch of yet another co-ordinating body- the Department of Administrative Services. These obliged the Committee to delay the completion of the taking of evidence so that we might assess the adequacy of the new arrangements. 
In retrospect, we have serious doubts about the justification for the change and the effectiveness of the administration of overseas property since the Bureau was abolished. The evidence before the Commitee, despite assurances given by the permanent head of the Department of Administrative Services, has led it to conclude that the new arrangements have not improved the efficiency of overseas property management. We were informed of serious delays caused by the need to refer minor matters to numerous coordinating bodies in Canberra, including the Public Service Board, the Department of Finance, the Department of Administrative Services and on occasions various interdepartmental committees, as well as major parent departments such as Foreign Affairs, Trade and Resources and Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. 
The Committee has made recommendations to reduce excessive administrative control and unnecessary expense. We believe that the Overseas Property Branch, as it is now called, within the Department of Administrative Services should be re-constituted as an independent bureau reporting to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Furthermore, we recommend that authority of heads of mission in property matters be increased. The Committee does not accept the situation where the Government gives heads of mission responsibility to negotiate matters of State on behalf of the Australian Government, and yet does not authorise them to make relatively minor administrative decisions with judgment, honesty and integrity. The Committee also recommends that the Public Service Board should delegate matters relating to standards and rent ceilings to the authority responsible for overseas property. 
We have made 26 recommendations and numerous other observations and comments throughout the report. Some of the most significant include the provision of funds adequate to carry out necessary maintenance. The Committee also received evidence concerning extremely high rents paid for property in certain countries which enabled landlords to amortise capital over periods as short as five years. The Committee believes that the Commonwealth should aim to own at least 75 per cent of its property requirements overseas to avoid paying these high rents and that adequate funds should be made available on a three or five year program for this purpose. 
The present system of providing staff with accommodation in North America and Britain also concerned the Committee. In these countries staff are provided with allowances and are expected to arrange private leased accommodation as well as leased furniture. The Committee believes that it is neither cost effective nor efficient when an officer posted from Australia has to spend weeks, and sometimes months, seeking suitable accommodation. We have recommended that the system in North America and Britain should be replaced by leased residential accommodation taken in the Government's name so that the Government may benefit from longer term leasing as well as enabling posted officers to become productive in a short a time as possible. 
I would like to comment briefly upon the use of Australian made products at Australian overseas posts. In general, the Committee supports the principle that Australian furniture and fabrics should be preferred where they are cost competitive A strong case can be made for use of Austraiian furniture, fabrics and other products in reception and entertaining areas in chanceries and heads of mission residences. To demonstrate the variety and quality of Australian manufactured products we have recommended that tendering specifications should be designed to give reasonable access to Australian manufacturers. We have noted a recent report concerning the furnishing of the new chancery and ambassador's residence in Bangkok. The Committee has been pleased to hear that our recommendation has been anticipated and that nearly all of the furniture will be supplied by Australian manufacturers. 
Another very topical question is the use of vehicles manufactured in Australia. The Committee received evidence that at times motor vehicles, including Australian built cars, were purchased which proved to be unsuitable to the conditions prevailing at the post. The Committee favours the use of Australian designed and manufactured vehicles, but clearly these must be cost competitive and must be backed up by suitable spare parts and maintenance arrangements. I commend the reports to honourable members. 
-This is the first occasion since I have been a member of this House on which I have spoken on the subject of national health. Perhaps one of the problems I have faced is that, like others, being reasonably healthy myself I take it for granted that other people also are generally healthy. However, a situation which occurred in Sydney on the weekend leading up to 1 November brought quite clearly to my mind the fact that every Australian citizen has a right to expect from the health service available to him what I call simply a 'fair deal'. Regrettably, on that occasion a number of people, citizens of Australia, residents of the State of New South Wales, were informed by a medical health fund of which they had been members for some years that because they had the misfortune of having chronic illness they were to be asked, in fact advised, to transfer their medical cover elsewhere. The legislation before us, the amendment to the National Health Act, is one for which I believe the Government and in particular the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  deserve our highest commendation. They have seen, as those of us in Sydney saw, that no medical system worthy of the name could possibly be implemented for the Australian people if it permitted such conduct to be continued by any medical fund. Discrimination, in whatever form, has no place in this land, and I hope that all parties in this Parliament agree on that point. 
This legislation is directed specifically towards preventing or reducing discrimination against medical benefit contributors in relation to the scope and level of benefits available to them for medical services rendered on or before 1 November 1978. In the Bill, improper discrimination is clearly defined as relating to chronic diseases or other illnesses of a particular kind, age, maximum benefit rules applied by organisations, and any other prescribed matter referred to and decided upon by the Minister. I hope that this legislation once and for all will close what were obviously seen by some people in the medical health insurance area as an opportunity to rid themselves of those human risks which they preferred not to have and, hopefully, could be passed on to someone else. As the Minister said on that occasion: 
It is totally against the ethics of the health insurance industry for one fund to try to offload its bad risk members to another fund. 
I believe that such behaviour is abhorrent. I believe that it is quite contrary to basic ethics, and common decency. I have been accused by some of believing that we should apply the same standards of ethics to the health insurance industry as to life insurance, the house insurance industry or the general insurance industry. Some people find that difficult to understand. Frankly, I do not. In all those areas there is one common thread, and that is the law of contract. A contract is entered into between a person and an organisation and, having accepted that contract, the organisation has no choice, as I see it, in the case of health care but to give that person the full opportunities to which he is entitled under the specific schedules for which he has paid regular contributions. 
In recent weeks I have received a number of letters from constituents pointing out their own specific problems. In many cases, they contain details of great sadness, of young children who have become sick following years of common membership by their families in a fund. Because they are chronically sick, some unprincipled people want to take advantage of their situation. I am delighted that this Government is closing that opportunity. As I said to the Director of the Hospitals Contribution Fund in a telegram I sent to him, I and my colleagues in this Parliament will take whatever steps are necessary to ensure that legislative action is initiated to prevent discrimination of that type. I am delighted that I have had the opportunity to participate in this debate and to congratulate the Government for the action it has taken in this regard. 
A few points have been made by speakers on the other side to which I would like to draw attention. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West),  for example, made the point that medical costs were going up. The reality is that medical costs have stabilised to a much greater extent over the last 12 months than they had in recent years. I believe we can hope that that situation will continue. As the Minister and the Government have said on numerous occasions, all sections of the health industry- the doctors, the hospitals, the funds, and all paramedical services- have a responsibility to ensure that in the national interest medical costs are kept at a reasonable level. We should take whatever action is necessary to keep down medical health costs. I believe that the proposal now before the House, which strengthens the recently amended National Health Act, goes a long way to guaranteeing that all Australian citizens should be given a degree of choice in terms of the medical services that they may want and did not have under Medibank No. 1, which we have heard glorified in its death throes by members of the Opposition. 
Reference was also made by the honourable member for Cunningham to the fact that we have too many doctors. The honourable member is aware, as I am and as the Minister is, that in New South Wales in particular there are now two graduating classes at the same time. We all know that this should have been thought out some years ago when that situation developed. With respect previous members of this House and of the State Parliaments, for reasons best known to themselves, ignored that situation which obviously was going to be created. If the honourable member finds that there are too many doctors, may I also draw to his attention the fact that in South Australia, which I understand is a Labor governed State, they are still allowing foreign doctors to go on the South Australian register. To my knowledge, it is the only State in the entire Commonwealth which is still allowing foreign doctors open entry to the register of medical practitioners. I suggest that that is a matter worthy of consideration. I have no objection to people migrating to Australia under the new guidelines put forward by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  and L welcome them. The fact remains that if there is a great shortage of opportunities for Australian doctors, if there is a clear case of over-supply in relation to demand, I would expect that all State governments, because that is where the regulations have to be applied should look upon this as their responsibility. A State of the honourable member's political persuasion, South Australia obviously is at least as responsible for maintaining some control over entry to its medical register as other States of the Commonwealth. 
We are bringing forward these amendments because we believe they are necessary, but the honourable member for Prospect has made the complaint that nothing has been done. He asked why this matter was not dealt with in the first place. I take this opportunity to remind the honourable gentleman that one member of the managing body of the HCF I believe is a representative of the New South Wales Labor Government. What was he doing? Perhaps he was not attending meetings and did not know what the policies of the fund were going to be. It is all very well to come in here and complain about what we have not done, but his State 
Government in New South Wales had a representative on the Board of the HCF. If he really had at heart the interests of the Australian constituents, especially those of New South Wales, I venture to suggest that he should have taken some action to advise  Mr Stewart,  the Minister for Health, and if necessary take unilateral action to prevent, to nip in the bud, this most heinous situation that was allowed to be created. The New South Wales Government, as usual, huffed and puffed about the matter but did nothing. The legislation is now being amended and I sincerely believe that we will not see situations such as this developing in the future. 
Before I conclude, I would Uke to ask a question which I hope the Minister will answer. I am particularly concerned about the fact that patients in New South Wales psychiatric hospitals are, to the best of my knowledge, being charged fees and apparently, for reasons I discussed earner, they are not able to get reasonable coverage from existing health funds. I ask the Minister: Does he consider that this places an unfair financial burden on such patients and their families? I sincerely believe it does. I believe that this is an area of medical health which should be given serious consideration by all levels of government. 
-I thank the House. I commend the report to honourable members. 
-I present the 174th report of the Committee of Public Accounts. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave to make a short statement. 
Leave granted. 
-This report of the Committee relates to the acquisition of automatic data processing systems in the Austraiian Public Service. It is mainly about the acquisition of medium-scale and large-scale computer systems. It also deals with the procurement of equipment to expand existing systems and with maintenance services. It does not look in detail at procurement of software, or services other than maintenance. This report is one of a series in a comprehensive study, by the Public Accounts Committee on major aspects of computer acquisition and usage to be presented to Parliament Others in the series will deal with: The Public Service Board's Mandata system; the planning and co-ordination of ADP developments; the efficiency and effectiveness of installed computing; and the collection and dissemination of statistical material by the Commonwealth. 
During the period 1962-63 to 1977-78, the Australian Public Service spent approximately $150m on the purchase and hire of computing equipment. In the last five years, there has been an average annual growth rate in equipment spending of IS per cent. Some procedures and practices currently in use for ADP acquisition are unduly costly with little compensating benefit. Moreover, they tend to be inflexible, inhibiting the optimum match of vendors' solutions to the user's requirements. The major unsatisfactory aspect of present procurement practice is the length of time it usually takes. The Department of Administrative Services has estimated that under new administrative arrangements for the acquisition of computers, the time required to acquire a computer from the beginning of the feasibility study to the beginning of implementation would be in excess of 48 months. From evidence received this is three times greater than the usual time taken in the private sector. We suggest that the Public Service Board should set itself the modest objective of reducing the average time for the acquisition of computer systems in the Public Service by 25 per cent. This would still mean the average would be approximately twice that in the private sector but would produce some $6m per annum in additional benefits and reduced costs. 
The Committee has reviewed the interim guidelines produced by the Public Service Board and the Departments of Prime Minister and Cabinet and Administrative Services, and has concluded that, if implemented, they would not result in efficient and effective computer system procurement. The guidelines are largely orientated towards review, approval and checking. They do not deal with the inefficiencies that exist in the present process; indeed if implemented, they would exacerbate many of the present inefficiencies. The interim guidelines which do provide adequate opportunity for ministerial scrutiny during the procurement cycle, for a large amount of interdepartmental committee surveillance and for an independent assessor do not contribute to the achievement of, or recognise the need for, moving the task of computer system procurement more firmly into the hands of departmental management. The great emphasis that they place on review and checking by the IDC on automatic data processing suggests that they may even have the opposite effect- that of further reducing the generally already inadequate level of involvement and control exercised by permanent heads in computer system acquisition. 
Currently, a significant component of the time cycle for procurement of large computer systems is the time taken in obtaining the endorsement for approval of departmental proposals by the IDC on ADP. It has been estimated that the IDC could be costing $4.5m in deferred benefits. The 
Committee considers it unlikely that the IDC review produces annual benefits of equal magnitude. It is the Committee's view that review and co-ordinating bodies such as the IDC should be publicly accountable for the costs saved and benefits lost due to their function. New administrative arrangements for computer procurement should be based on a cost/benefit analysis which takes into account the effect of delay on both direct costs and lost benefits. 
The Committee has suggested new interim guidelines to ensure that there is adequate opportunity for ministerial scrutiny without the delays in the existing procedures. In brief, the responsibility for the review of departments' computer proposals would be vested with the Public Service Board. The Board would be charged with responsibility for the speedy processing of all proposals. The Board's officers would be responsible for drawing Cabinet's attention to proposals which involve possible difficulties such as conflict of interest. The Committee is anxious to ensure that fairness, honesty, free competition and more open negotiation prevail in all procedures developed. In all, the Committee made 40 recommendations which it feels will improve the acquisition of ADP systems in the Public Service. 
This has been the first major review undertaken relating to the acquisition of ADP systems in the Australian Public Service. The Committee wishes to express its appreciation of the cooperation and assistance accorded to it by staff of the Public Service and suppliers of computer equipment and services. The information and material provided has greatly assisted the Committee in its prompt presentation of this report. The Committee would also like to acknowledge the outstanding contribution of its technical advisor,  Mr Peter  MacGregor of P. K. MacGregor and Associates, in the preparation of this report. 
I seek leave to incorporate the Committee's recommendations and the remainder of my remarks on the Committee's activities for 1978, in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
How many persons in receipt of unemployment benefits have had benefits terminated on the recommendation of the Commonwealth Employment Service, during each quarter of (a) 1974, (b) 1975, (c) 1976, (d) 1977 and (e) 1978 to date. 
How many of those persons appealed to the Social Security Appeals Tribunal during each of the same periods. 
How many appeals resulted in the restoration of benefits to the appellant during each of the same periods. 
I think that the matters raised by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  require some comment. I have just now been looking through the transcripts of reports to the Public Accounts Committee given by officials of the Department of Finance with regard to act of grace payments. From what I have read, there appears to be no reason for the Public Accounts Committee to have presumed at that time, that we had any built-in right to seek specific information relating to amounts or names or any particular details with regard to specific act of grace payments. What we were offered then was really little more than what the Parliament as a whole is to be offered, namely, that a statement would be issued by the Minister in accordance with, I think, section 50 of the relevant legislation, giving the amounts concerned. It was also pointed out to us that, in the case of some departmental appropriations, specific appropriations do contain funds for act of grace payments. In other words, such payments are effectively buried in the appropriation and one would be very hard pressed to dig them out. 
I was pleased to hear the confirmation by the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  that in future the Committee would have the right to expect and would receive the full co-operation of the relevant departments and officers concerned in bringing to the Committee specific information relating to these act of grace payments. But lest there be any confusion on this point, I must say that we initially suggested that the Act be amended actually to put in the words 'Public Accounts Committee' in accordance with the decision accepted by the legislation committee to make it a fact of law as distinct from merely the Minister's interpretation. This would make it virtually impossible for any future Minister to deny the Committee access to this information. Lest there be any misunderstanding, I once again ask the Minister to confirm what I have said, namely, that the Public Accounts Committee would have access to the detailed information on amounts and the names of the people who receive act of grace payments. 
-The criticism raised by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  is one which I as an excivil servant understand. I think, however, that the proposals put forward by the Government, provided they are followed through with effective and appropriate instructions as to how the legislation is to be carried out by departmental heads and other senior officers, will ensure that officers who are deeply concerned in criticisms raised by the Auditor-General in his efficiency reports on the activities of a specific department or statutory authority are given the opportunity to state their case. I think it is a fair comment to make that most departmental heads jealously guard the public image of their respective authorities or departments and, for that reason, will take up at the highest level the defence of their officers and organisations on all occasions. Nevertheless, this point is worth raising. 
I should also like to mention that the Government has accepted that the Expenditure Committee of this House and the Joint Committee of Public Accounts will, in fact, have the joint authority to examine all efficiency audit reports and make their findings known to the Parliament. Whilst we have not yet discussed in detail precisely how this examination will be conducted, I feel sure that my colleagues and I take the view that we should naturally look into these questions in our analysis and be sure that both sides are given a reasonable opportunity to state their case. 
-The area of surcharging is probably one of the most contentious elements in this legislation. As has been pointed out, because of difficulties in applying the Act effectively, amendments were suggested to overcome this difficulty. It is difficult to determine in many administration areas whether gross negligence has occurred and it is often hard to determine the blame of the individual concerned. Because of the hierarchical structure of the Service, in most cases responsibility is usually shared. When one is faced with the problem, one has to decide, exactly who shared that responsibility and to what extent it has shared and what degree of responsibility. I agree entirely with the comments made by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  that this area has yet to be tested in terms of this new legislative definition. The House, naturally will be watching it with some interest. 
I should like to make some comments in regard to earlier suggestions made by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William 
McMahon) with regard to my particular involvement in this amendment. The fact of the matter is I along with ex-Senator Wright attended a number of discussions over a period of some three years with officers and Ministers responsible for this particular Act. 
-I have been here for less than five years. Nevertheless, I attended those meetings as a representative of the Public Accounts Committee and I was cognisant of the problems involved. The difficulty that we face as a Parliament when we go into a legislation committee and wish to make amendments is to find somebody who is technically competent to take an idea and to put it into words which meet the requirements of the situation. I must say that in this case I received no direct assistance whatsoever from the Attorney-General's Department. Officers of this Parliament did their best to help me. Officers of the Parliamentary Library legal research section helped me. On balance, I think it is fair to say that as a private member I did not get the degree of support that I think is necessary. I am sure that my colleagues would agree in terms of amendments that they might wish to make in future. The three amendments that I propose were supported by the majority of members of the legislation committee. They were very similar to concepts contained in the Public Service Act. It was my view- and my colleagues shared it- that there was considerable logic in having the same concepts developed in two pieces of legislation relevant to the administration of the Public Service. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was making some observations about the difficulties which private members have in making satisfactory amendments before committees of .this House when we do not appear to have adequate back-up support in the drafting of those amendments. I think the difficulty we are facing with regard to clause 57 is a case in point. The amendments I drew up were based on the belief and on the premise that there was good logic in trying to establish a set of words which would overcome the difficulty of using the concept of 'grossly negligent' and at the same time linking the provisions of the Public Service Act and the Audit Act insofar as both pieces of legislation related to the Public Service. 
The words which were developed for me were subsequently included and passed by the committee. Subsequent to that I sought legal advice from  Mr Justice  Meares who is the legal adviser to the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. He was of the view that the problem as put forward in our amendment was going much too far and that the concept of 'grossly negligent' could be utilised in this Act in the manner put forward in the amendment by the Government. Nevertheless, I think it must be drawn to the attention of the House that the concept of 'grossly negligent', in these circumstances, must be read in the context of the normal test applied under common law in the case of negligence, that is, a deliberate, serious disregard of reasonable standards of care. 
-Could the Minister for National Development advise the House whether the current disruption in Iran's oil supplies will have any impact on the price and supply of oil to Australia? If there is any shortfall, from which source will it be made up? 
-Last week this Parliament resumed and throughout three sitting days not one opportunity was taken by the members of the Opposition to question the Government about any matter concerning foreign policy. Not a single opportunity was taken by the Opposition to debate foreign policy as a matter of public importance, this most pressing issue of concern to the Australian people. I venture to suggest that there is a reason for this. It is simply that the Opposition has no viable foreign policy to offer. All we have heard from the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is an historical resume of events in Indo-China over the last 25 years. In his last breath he decided to mention West Asia. At no stage did he mention Europe. Of course Africa is simply so far away that he does not even recognise that it exists. The statement made here today by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  was not only a concise and expert coverage of the very difficult situation facing Australia and the Western world but also examined matters which this Parliament, as a matter of prime responsibility to the Australian people, must take very seriously. Whether we like it or not, power and the perception of power will always remain the final and ultimate arbiters of the affairs of men. Whilst all of us wish for nothing more than peace between nations regardless of differences of ideological approach, the reality facing us today is that we have seen, over the last few years in particular, a steady but sure increase in the military capacity of the Soviet Union compared with the United States of America. 
Since the fall of Saigon we have seen that the United States has significantly limited its international perception. These factors face us today with a set of circumstances which are not of our making. Whilst the honourable member for Kingsford Smith has accused us for our involvement in the Vietnam war, I venture to suggest that the fact remains that even if not one Australian soldier had ever served there the circumstances we see in South East Asia today would be basically the same. As this Government perceived in its policy to the Australian people at the time of the 1975 election, whether we like it or not South East Asia could be the Balkans of the 1980s. The states of Asia, whether they like it or not, are in a cauldron in which Soviet power and Chinese power are competing for influence. We remain on the sidelines of this current dispute. But it is a dispute which in many respects is placing the Western world- nay the entire world- on a knife edge. It is so easy to imagine a situation where one mistake, one miscalculation, one rifle bullet across an international frontier, could well be enough to launch the Soviet Union against China- an action which would result, quite likely, in disastrous consequences for all of mankind. 
It is not possible today, with the strategic balance as it is, for one nation to take the view that it can stand back and let the great powers fight it out in far off South East Asia or, as the Europeans would call it, the Orient. Our world today is a relatively small place and nations have the capacity, in the form of intercontinental ballistic missiles and manned bombers, to travel great distances, for example from the Soviet Union to Australia, or from the United States to the Soviet Union- in fact virtually around the world. These are facts. Whilst members of the Opposition have failed utterly in recent days to present to the Australian people a demonstrated foreign policy we, as the Government of Australia, have no choice but to live with the realities of the circumstances facing us. That is precisely what the Government has done. 
We are only a medium ranking power. We have been told by the Opposition how churlish it was for the Foreign Minister to call in foreign ambassadors to ask our ambassadors around the world to bring to the attention of the governments to which they are accredited the concern of the Australian people and of the Australian Government at the circumstances in South East Asia. What is churlish about that? I would have thought that was an act of the utmost responsibility and one which this Government has been prepared to adopt and to follow through. Our voice must be heard. Admittedly, we are not a strong nation in a military sense but we have strength in our part of the world in the economic sense and we are looked upon by many nations as a state which is responsible in its actions. Nevertheless, the circumstances in South East Asia are matters of the greatest concern and should be of great concern to all Australians and to the Western world. 
The Minister has adequately covered the various problems relating to the China- Vietnam situation and there is no point in covering that matter any further. However, I wish to spend more time on the question of the Middle East and the geopolitical situation developing there, with specific reference to the question of oil. As I said previously, and I want to repeat this point, power and the perception of power will remain the final and ultimate arbiters of the affairs of men. One of the greatest sources of power today is energy and states which hold energy and the power which comes from it are in a very strong position to dictate the affairs of other states. 
We have seen in Iran in recent weeks that the situation has deteriorated to the point where not only are the Iranians unable to get their oil wells operating but they are importing oil from other states of the Middle East. Yet Iran in normal circumstances represents to many countries in Western Europe a supply capacity of up to 60 per cent of their needs. Here in Australia we are fortunate. Imports from Iran represent not much more than 3 per cent of our oil consumption. However, as the Minister pointed out, unlike a few years ago when there were alternative sources of energy, today there is an increased demand for oil based energy relative to supply. When the taps in one country are turned off there is absolutely no guarantee that an alternative source of supply can be found in others. The influence which can be brought to bear by oil rich countries of the Middle East will demonstrate to Western Europe, and North America in particular, the capacity literally to cut the umbilical cord of their economies. No modern state today, as we well appreciate, can exist in those circumstances. 
It has been pointed out by the Opposition on various occasions that the Government is not even-handed, that somehow or other our policy is pro-Chinese and anti-Soviet. The fact of the matter is that we are seeing the circumstances of the geopolitical balance for what they are; not for some dream of what we would like to perceive them to be. I quote, for the benefit of honourable members, the 1979 report of the Secretary of the United States Department of Defence. It states: 
Between 1964 and 1977 Soviet military personnel increased from 3.4 to 4.4 million men. All the components of modern military power are now included in the Soviet armed forces, from intercontinental and strategic nuclear and thermo-nuclear forces to a wide range of non-nuclear capabilities-among them, chemical weapons. Each of these capabilities comprises weapons and support of increasing sophistication. Technologically, the Soviet military establishment is now approaching, in many but not all respects, the quality of our own. 
Of course the report refers to the United States. It continues: 
Furthermore, current intelligence estimates are that between 1964 and 1977 the Soviets spent an average of about 10 to IS per cent of their defence budget on forces oriented towards the Peoples Republic of China. At least 22 per cent of the increase in the Soviet defence budget during those 13 years has been attributed to the build-up in the Far East and the remaining 78 per cent, according to intelligence estimates, has gone to the strategic nuclear forces and the theatre forces oriented towards western Europe. 
Despite this enormous military build-up by the Soviet Union in recent years, it must be recognised that since 1945 no Soviet unit has been placed in a military position against any other state. Despite the fact that no Soviet forces have been involved we are well aware that Soviet technology, Soviet experts, Soviet arms and equipment have been seen in many places in 
Africa, in the Middle East and in South East Asia. In recent years there has not been one trouble spot, not even Northern Ireland, in which has not been found among the arsenal of those who wish to fight equipment supplied by the Soviet Union. Wherever there has been a tendency for governments to become unstable, Soviet penetration through local communists has become clear to all. Whilst the Iran situation to date cannot be directed at the Soviet, the fact remains that the activities of the Marxist elements which are currently in Iran have clearly demonstrated that the best we can expect from Iran is that the Ayatollah's administration will be effective and be able to exert some degree of influence. But it is highly doubtful whether we will see a united Iran in the foreseeable future. On the other hand the implications of an Iran racked by civil war are very real indeed- a civil war with the Marxists on the one side and the Ayatollah's forces on the other with the moderates of Iran, as usual, stuck somewhere in the middle. Out of this the Western world will be the greatest sufferer because significant energy sources will be in jeopardy and there are no alternative sources of supply. 
The difficulty we are facing above all in the West is the lack of determination to face the realities which we have perceived and to decide to do something about them. As I mentioned earlier, the United States, following Vietnam and for obvious domestic traumatic reasons, deliberately withdrew unto itself and there has not been to our satisfaction a demonstrated determination in the US in recent years to assume its international responsibilities. 
For example, in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation area of Western Europe there is again a degree of malaise in that the United States and its Western allies demonstrably do not have at this point of time at least equality of strategic capability with the Warsaw Pact countries, which include the Soviet Union. Throughout Africa we have been faced with a difficult situation. Cuban forces, armed and equipped by the Soviet, have again been prepared to be the catspaw of the Soviet Union, dabbling wherever possible in strife between states, in civil wars between rulers and people and between rulers and their own elite as in Chad. The biggest problem we are facing in the Middle East is the possibility that those who control access to our oil supplies ultimately control the destiny of Western Europe. 
There is no reason why the West today can stand back and, in the short term, view what is happening with any satisfaction. In fact, we are seeing a pronounced deterioration in the relative strength of the United States and its allies visavis the Soviet Union and its allies, a pronounced deterioration in the capacity of the Western alliance to present a united face, and a deterioration in the capacity of the Third World to feel that in the West it has a group of states which are reliable, can be depended upon to make decisions and have the courage to carry them out for the welfare of mankind. 
-I wish to join many other members of this House in expressing my concern at the number of abortions being performed in this country. This issue should not be seen only in moral terms but equally as a matter of major social and economic importance. No country with the' manifest resources of Australia can indulge itself in a de facto policy of zero population growth and expect to have the luxury of deciding indefinitely its own destiny in a world where the availability of space and resources will play an even greater part in deciding the affairs of nations. Perhaps it is a truism, but Australia as we know it must populate or perish. 
This debate is centred around two major arguments. One relates to the right of the individual woman to choose whether to terminate a pregnancy. The contrary argument, expressed by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher),  which I support, is that a pregnant woman in fact must consider not only her welfare but also that of the child to be. Both have rights. It is a subject of contention, however, as to which right should be supported by the State in those circumstances where the termination of a pregnancy is considered to be warranted. Unfortunately the law has not denned the rights of the unborn child, the least of which, surely, is the right to live. The honourable member for Hume, in his opening remarks, pointed out: 
. this Parliament has no power over the legality of abortion. That question is a matter for the State governments. 
I agree with that observation. However, it is my belief that the Menhennitt and Levine judgments, which have formed the basis of State law in Victoria and New South Wales respectively, have been interpreted so liberally in recent years that, for all intent and purposes, there is abortion on demand. I cannot support this position as I am a Catholic by choice and family tradition. Nevertheless, I believe that the existence of State law, even if not applied to my satisfaction, is a fact. State governments regard the judgments as a basis for the judicial interpretation of their respective legislation. It is the law, even if we do not approve of the methods by which it is being applied. 
This debate has brought the Parliament face to face with the age-old problem of the place of law in administering the affairs of man. To what extent should moral judgment be used as a basis for the determination of law? The House should recall that some centuries ago, burning at the stake was regarded as a legally justifiable death for a person who dared to have different religious beliefs to others. Abortion in all its manifestations faces us with the problem of the absolute view. The taking of life under any circumstance is wrong, although legally justified under certain conditions such as war. For this reason, those who do not wish to support the Lusher motion but have some sympathy with the amendment moved by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  should also not run away from the fact that, if they wish to apply an absolute rule, they must find some problems with that amendment for it also suggests that a pregnancy may be terminated in cases involving incest, rape or disease of the mother. Nevertheless, this amendment at least attempts to relate to members of this Parliament the fact that we live in a practical world in which, in every day of our lives, we have to make value judgments, hopefully based on sound moral principles, as to what is permissible in the interests of the individual and of society and what is not permissible. Time after time we are faced with the choice of the lesser evil. 
Statistics have been quoted to demonstrate that on a per capita basis we have a higher rate of abortion than either the United States of America or the United Kingdom. Why is this so? Is it simply the fault of the law, of governments, of the courts, or is it a sickness of society, corrupted by the belief that there is no such thing as personal responsibility for anything? Having identified the abortion problem, however, it is entirely another thing to find adequate solutions. We have every reason to be concerned about the present rate of abortions and we must seek at the levels of both Federal and State governments to understand better the significance of this trend and the reasons for it. I am firmly of the view that the course embarked upon by the honourable member for Hume and his supporters will not reduce the rate of abortions, but probably will create a host of ancillary problems if legislation of the type he suggests is introduced. 
Apart from the evidence contained in the report of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships and various statistics of questionable value submitted in this debate by organisations which run abortion clinics and by others, we are faced with an essential problem in that we cannot say categorically why so many thousands of women apparently feel that regardless of cost they have no available alternative but to seek a termination, whatever their reasons may be. It is encumbent upon this Parliament, as well as the State parliaments, to be prepared to develop and apply pre-natal and post-natal policies which would give women to a much greater extent than at present, a reasonable chance to work through their problems with the full support of the community in an atmosphere of understanding and genuine compassion. Obviously, that is not the position at present. I mentioned earlier the lack of viable statistics relating to abortions. The preterm foundation survey of some 1,000 women conducted in 1975 stated that of those women obtaining abortions, 52.5 per cent had never been married, 55.4 per cent were young adolescents and 61.4 per cent stated that the reason for their situation was that they had not used contraception. A further 28 per cent stated that they had used contraception but that it had failed. Statistics provided to the Royal Commission by the Crown Street Women's Hospital in 1974 stated that 80 per cent of women seeking abortion gave inability to cope emotionally as their main reasons for terminating a pregnancy. Sixty-two per cent gave inability to cope financially as their reason, 47 per cent did not want an unwanted child and 12 per cent could not face adoption. 
If the honourable member for Hume and his supporters find difficulty in spending $3m or $6m on funding for abortions they must be prepared to ask the citizens of this country to approve higher taxation and new legislation which will involve the spending of many millions of dollars in supporting not only unwed mothers but often their unwanted and unloved children and one-parent families. At present the Commonwealth Government is paying approximately $ 1,000m for family allowances. Obviously that sum would be increased if anywhere near 60,000 additional births took place each year. I have estimated that the additional cost of supporting single mothers alone would be in the region of $1 14m to $120m annually. Nevertheless I believe that this is a cost we, as a society, must be prepared to bear. In the areas of better support for mothers, and in the provision of contraceptive advice and education- in the whole range of socio-economic area- we have no alternative but to improve the present system which quite obviously has not been satisfactory. We are not educating our young people sufficiently to appreciate their responsibilities as individuals and their capacity to so dramatically affect the lives of others. 
It is worth noting also that in fact there are only seven pregnancy support services in Australia. Principally they are organised and run by the Catholic Church and are directed specifically at encouraging women to have their children and not to seek abortions. The entire country is catered for by a mere 77 government funded clinics- of which only 14 are in country areas- staffed by no less than 400 trained doctors and nurses. For too long there has been a current view in our community, supported by the courts, that somehow or other pregnancy is the fault of the woman alone and that the young buck, for example, must be excused for doing what comes naturally. He may sow his wild oats free from any effective legal restraint on the results of his actions. While abortion remains such an accessible option for women, the recognition of paternity and the attendant responsibilities are being avoided. I ask this House: Are we prepared to change community attitudes and insist that the laws be applied on these essential points? If we are not, then this whole debate is pointless. It is so much easier for people to throw up their hands in dismay and turn to the Government for action to overcome problems which are absolutely the responsibility of individuals and of our community as well as of our governments. 
-Has the Minister for Defence seen claims made by the managing director of an Australian computer company that $500,000 worth of tenders called by the Department of Defence specified United States brand names only, thereby excluding Australian companies? He described this practice as a national scandal. Will the Minister advise the House whether the situation is as described and, if so, the reasons for excluding Australian brand names from the tender if they have plug compatible equipment? 
-The final words of the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  demonstrated clearly to this House the utter humbug of the reasoning behind the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)-  I call him the Don Quixote of the Australian Labor Party- for raising this matter of public importance which is being debated today. The sense of what the honourable member for Fremantle just said was: No one on this side criticises the Prime Minister for using special aircraft, because  Mr Whitlam  did the same thing'. This matter of public importance accuses the Government of making unnecessary purchases and then attempting to evade parliamentary scrutiny. The honourable member for Fremantle, the second  speaker  for the Opposition, in his last words admitted that there was a case for VIP aircraft of this type being made available to help Prime Ministers and other senior officials of the Australian Government and also to be used for defence purposes. 
We have heard a travesty of the truth on this matter. Both the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the previous Prime Minister were given the strongest advice on security grounds that when travelling overseas they should be in special purpose aircraft- either those owned by the Royal Australian Air Force or by Qantas Airways Ltd. Having in mind the general security situation which we see internationally today, it would be of the utmost stupidity for any Australian Prime Minister, regardless of his party, to travel overseas on an aircraft with 300-odd other passengers and put their lives in jeopardy because of his presence, and that of his party, on the aircraft. There are cases on record where Prime Ministers of this country have been taken off aeroplanes in the Middle East to be feted and treated as VIPs while everybody else was left on the plane to sweat it out. According to the Opposition, that is appropriate for mere citizens. Apparently there is no difficulty associated with that. Why should we bother trying to purchase special aircraft? The health or security of other passengers on board does not matter! I think that too much has been made of the question of the use of aircraft by Prime Ministers. For obvious reasons the Opposition is trying to play it up. In the media and so forth it tries to demonstrate- as the honourable member for 
Port Adelaide has tried again and failed- to suggest that the Prime Minister is disporting himself on the international stage, using extravagant luxuries supplied for him by the Australian people. 
The number of times these two aircraft will be used in any 12-month period justifies without doubt their usage by the RAAF for a whole range of purposes. For example, at present each year we send about 24 flights of CI 30 aircraft to Butterworth, taking personnel, goods, stores and so forth. It is intended that these new aircraft will be used to replace the CI 30s on many routes. They will soon be used to take Australian troops to Namibia. Honourable members are aware that 320 Australians have been allocated to United Nations forces there. There will be requirements for these aircraft to take Australian troops to Canada and to South East Asia and to be used for defence purposes, defence exercises and so forth. Again the Opposition made light of this. These facts did not fit the case and therefore had to be totally ignored. 
I do not want to take any further time of the House on the necessity for this purchase. However, I would like to deal in detail with the second allegation that the Opposition has made, namely, that we have attempted to evade parliamentary scrutiny by buying two 707 aircraft from Qantas Airways Ltd under the advance to the Minister for Finance. Yesterday the honourable member for Port Adelaide took up the time of the House by tilting at the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman).  Today he tilted at the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson).  We wait in expectation to see whom he will be tilting at tomorrow and which windmill may or may not bother turning as a result. If the honourable member is genuinely interested in how the affairs of this nation are run and how the finances of this Commonwealth are managed, he should join a committee of this Parliament such as the Expenditure Committee or the Public Accounts Committee, when he might actually learn something. 
The uses of the Advance to the Minister for Finance fall broadly into four categories. The fourth category is the one which has specific reference to this case. The moneys may be made available in supplementation of existing appropriations, for specified purposes or to finance new services the need for which arises or about which decision is reached after the Government has determined what provisions are to be included for specific purposes in Appropriation Bills. The Minister for Finance clearly pointed out that when the last Appropriation Bills were drawn up there was absolutely no possibility of the Government knowing what aircraft would be purchased or what they would cost. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  made it clear in May last year that our objective was to purchase two aircraft. It was also stated by various people that the ideal aircraft for the purpose would be Boeing 707s. 
It is well known by people who have access to information on the international availability of aircraft that good 707s are in extremely short supply. The only two in Australia are those which belong to Qantas. Qantas had already made its decision, that it wished to transfer completely to 747s and dispense with 707s. Therefore the two 707s were to be sold either in Australia or overseas. In that context the 

<graphic href="113131197903286_32_1.jpg"></graphic>

-This table demonstrates one very interesting fact and it is this: For the three Budget periods which were affected by the Labor Party when it was in government, namely 1972-73, 1973-74 and 1974-75, the actual expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer increased by 75 per cent in the first year, 226 per cent in the second year and 43 per cent in the third year. And we have heard it suggested that we have misused the Advance to the Treasurer. 
I am not prepared to say that the Labor Party, during that period in government, necessarily misused those funds, but what I am pointing out is that it used funds for a whole range of opportunities- to initiate policies and to start programs which, for various reasons, it had not taken into account earlier in the fiscal period. That is exactly the position we find in this case: The Government did not know at the time that there would be a requirement for funds to purchase those two aircraft, nor did it know what the 
Government sent overseas a number of professional Air Force personnel to see what we could do elsewhere. It is the responsibility of this Government to be absolutely sure that the best aircraft is purchased at the lowest possible price. That demonstrates once again the fiscal responsibility that this Government has applied in the last three Budgets, contrary to what we saw from the Opposition when it was in power. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, in this context I would like to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table of appropriation and expenditure from the Advance to the Minister for Finance for the period 1968-69 to 1978-79. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- aircraft were going to cost. The important point is this: If a department does not know what its expenditure is likely to be- this is laid down quite clearly by the Public Accounts Committee in its 173rd report and has the total support of the Department of Finance- that department is not permitted to apply from the Advances to the Minister for Finance any figment of the imagination. We want to know exactly what programmes are going to cost and exactly what the commitment to the Department of Finance and to the Australian people will be in that fiscal period. That is why the position in this case was abundantly clear. 
Advance appropriations, contrary to what we have heard from the other side of the House, do not require that they should be made only in special or urgent circumstances, and I emphasise that point. Parliament has left the use of the Advance to the judgment of the Minister of 

<graphic href="113131197903286_32_1.jpg"></graphic>

Finance. The Advances are in essence contingency funds for unforeseen expenditure and are limited to the amounts which have been approved. Consequently, steps have been taken to guard against departments regarding the funds as a conveniently available source of finance which lessens the need for them to be more specific in terms of their estimating through the Appropriation Bills Nos. 1 to 4. In the next week Appropriation Bill (No. 3) will come forward and in that Bill appropriate funds will be made available for the purchase of these aircraft. I emphasise that nothing has been done in this case which is in the slightest degree illegal or improper. It was fully in accordance with accepted financial practice. 
My question is directed to the Acting Minister for Health. Does the Government support the fluoridation of water supplies? Is there any evidence to suggest a link between fluoridation of water supplies and cancer, as suggested in a recent  Four Corners  program on Australian Broadcasting Commission television? Does the Minister feel that the program was balanced and reasonable? 
-Can the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs inform the House whether he is considering a program to assist the establishment of youth work cooperatives for disadvantaged unemployed youth? If so, when does he expect to be in a position to announce his decision? 
I address my question to the Minister for National Development. In view of the major disruption which can be caused by industrial disputes at oil refineries, does the Minister agree that it is time that liquefied petroleum gas is made an economic alternative to petroleum motor spirit and in acceptable quantities? Accordingly, how does the Government intend to encourage oil companies and fuel distributors to install additional LPG outlets? What is the attitude of Australian vehicle manufacturers to producing vehicles able to use LPG gas? 
It is very sad to see in this Parliament that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  has to speak during the grievance debate as this is the only time available for back benchers of whatever party - 
-by leave-The Joint Committee of Public Accounts released a statement on 31 May 1979 giving detailed terms of reference for its proposed inquiry into the funding of tertiary education. I seek leave to have a copy of this statement incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 
-Since then, the Committee has determined that at least five newspapers reported this statement; however, not one reported it completely accurately. The  Sun News Pictorial  and the  Age  did not distinguish between the activities of a parliamentary joint committee and the Government and referred to a Government committee. The Committee believes that this is of great significance because it is multi-party in composition and jealously guards the apolitical nature of its inquiries. We cannot function unless this is the position. Other newspapers, notably the  Austalian Financial Review  and the  Canberra Times,  quoted incorrectly from the text of the statement. The  SunHerald  on Sunday 3 June reported that the Committee would be investigating claims of waste and deception by tertiary institutions. These claims were alleged to have originated from Cabinet. While we cannot comment upon their origin, they certainly did not come from evidence before the Public Accounts Committee. The Committee will be examining the co-ordination of funding and expenditure of tertiary institutions and the evaluation of courses is only one part of its terms of reference. The  Sun-Herald  finished its report by saying that the Committee will particularly investigate one specific allegation relating to a Victorian college. The Committee has received no such information and made no mention of such an allegation in its statement. It is a matter of regret and concern to the Committee that its Press releases cannot be reported correctly. The Committee hopes that in future the Press will exercise greater care in reporting the activities of parliamentary committees. 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. In the recent Budget it was announced that a general exemption from sales tax is to apply to all articles designed and manufactured expressly for and used by blind and deaf persons. I ask: What is the position with respect to equipment designed and manufactured expressly for other handicapped persons? Can they also be covered by the same general exemption? 
-These are very difficult times for any nation and for a government responsible for chartering the course of the nation. This Budget has maintained the Government's fundamental priority, to attack inflation, which we see as the essential root cause of many of the fundamental difficulties we are facing in the Australian economy at the present time. The Government's policy has been vindicated by the improvement in our basic economic health over the last three and a half years. The experience of the major member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has demonstrated conclusively not only that are we on the right track, despite all the difficult decisions that have been taken and will yet have to be taken, but also that there is no viable alternative economic strategy. 
The rhetoric of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)-  the self styled donkey walloper- on his so-called alternative Budget would in his own words mean 'higher inflation and a further contraction in the living standards of ordinary people'. It was surely one of his many errors of judgment that in his entire speech last evening on the Budget the word 'inflation', to my knowledge, appeared but once and at no stage in his alternative strategy has he explained how it would reduce what still remains the most dangerous predator on the wages and the living standards of the Austraiian people. How can a man who as Treasurer of a Labor government which reached the dizzy heights of plus 17 per cent inflation come into this House and put to the Australian Parliament and through it to the Australian people a so-called strategy which offers nothing but more of what we had before. That Government was defeated by the Australian people in a historic manner. That defeat was repeated in a second election and it will be repeated in the same way next time. 
The Government's Budget has addressed itself to strengthening the economic health of the nation by giving stimulus to the private sector, in which the vast majority of new jobs must be found. Of course, we have heard from the Opposition the usual socialist diatribe about the role of the Government, the need to have Keynesian policies to act as pump primers, and the difficulties of considering monetaristic policies. The fact remains that whilst the Government has a part to play it does not have the role of creating jobs unless there is a demand within the economy for those jobs. Last year our manufacturing exports increased by some 30 per cent, and from that increase jobs were created. There is no reason to believe that at least that same figure cannot be achieved again in 1979-80. The future of Australian industry in terms of exports must be bright while we can continue to maintain our comparative cost advantage, which has been achieved by this Government because it has fought inflation more effectively than any other nation with which we are currently trading. 
Let us look at the record in terms of Austraiian exports. We are selling swimming pools to Europe, Hills hoists to the Middle East and Europe, Australian air-conditioning units to Cairo hotels, Australian irrigation equipment in the Jordan valley, Australian iron sheds and fencing in Nigeria and Australian white goods to South East Asia. The story goes on. We were told by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  yesterday the wonderful news about a large project in the Newcastle shipyards for the construction of a ship- a major piece of defence equipment. That demonstrates again the capacity of Australian industry not only to compete overseas but also to win domestic markets from other foreign-based companies which previously expected to win those Australian contracts. In terms of our export potential we have nothing to fear but fear itself. The same principle applies today as it did in the United States when a very great American  President  used those words when introducing his New Deal' to defeat the Great Depression. Private capital inflow into this country is now the highest for seven years. There has been a significant rise in the number of major investment projects to be initiated, all of which will, of course, create new jobs. 
Let us look at the record. In terms of petroleum the recovery in exploration confidence under this Government is reflected in the number of exploration wells drilled in 1978 and proposed for 1979. In 1978 there were 52 wells drilled, more than the number drilled in each of the previous three years. This compares with the decline from 1 00 wells in 1 972 to only 1 9 wells in 1976 when the loss of confidence and the cessation of exploration planning was attributable to Labor policies. This year industry sources predict that between 83 and 143 exploration wells will be drilled. That demonstrates that foreign companies and Australian capital are prepared to put their money into this nation because they know that it is stable. They know that their money will be used to the benefit of this nation and to their own as investors. Based on the figures published by the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research, the body, incidentally, so often used by our colleagues on the opposite benches, the average annual rate of growth in real private investment, in mining and manufacturing which includes important parts of the energy industries will be 12.5 per cent between 1976 and 1980. The growth in the previous four years, 1972-76-the period affected by the Labor Government- was negative. It was an average of minus 8.5 per cent per annum. We are told by leading exponents of the socialist philosophy on the other side of the House that we do not want foreign investment or Australian domestic investment; all we need is a larger public sector; from that source alone new opportunities for employment are to be found. What absolute nonsense! 
We have the development expenditure in the Bass Strait. We have the new Mackerel and Tuna fields for oil and gas. We have potential development of the North West Shelf. Thousands of millions of dollars are being invested in Australian productive capacity for the future. Australian industry, because it has a comparative cost advantage, based essentially on our access to cheap energy resources, will continue to be able to compete on overseas markets. If that were not the case, why is a company such as Comalco Ltd doubling its investment in alumina production? Why are industries throughout Australia looking for more power? Why did the State governments come to the Loan Council only a few months ago and obtain the complete support of the Federal Government to make significant investments in infrastructure for new industries with resulting new employment? These are achievements well beyond the capacity of the economic geniuses of the Opposition to understand. 
An amount of $2 15m has been provided this year for export incentives- an increase of 1 37 per cent. Australian manufacturing industry has demonstrated in recent years the confidence placed in it by the Australian Government. There is no reason to believe that with activity in Australia and reasonable trade union cooperation we will not continue to expand the markets which are now developing. In the last three years expenditure on industrial research and development has increased from $14m to $32m. In a highly competitive market situation the Government recognises that it is essential for industry to develop its own techniques to maintain and increase its share in both the domestic market and world markets. 
The tourist industry is an area in which the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  is a self-confessed expert. I am sure that he will appreciate the fact that it is potentially very labour intensive. Thus, its development must create additional job opportunities. I am sure that he will be delighted to know that the Australian Government has made the decision to double the budget of the Australian Tourist Commission to $8. 2m.  Major concessions  have been allowed for the depreciation of certain new incomeproducing buildings, used for the accommodation of travellers, at the rate of 2'/4 per cent. To assist further small business the Government in 1976 eased the distribution requirements under Division 7 of the Income Tax Assessment Act and increased the retention allowance from 50 per cent to 60 per cent. The last Budget has now increased it to 70 per cent, giving $30m more into the hands of the private sector. 
Let us turn to the problem of unemployment which is our so-called Achilles heel as far as the Opposition is concerned. Unemployment has reached the present stage because of the fundamental mistakes made by the present Opposition when it was the Government of this country for three disastrous years. The problems faced by us are traced directly back to that period. It will take time to work our way out. Despite the rhetoric, the Leader of the Opposition in his statement last night had surprisingly little to say about the major problems of unemployment, save to state once again the tired old formulas which proved demonstrably disastrous during the period of the Whitlam Government. We are told that the Government must face up to 'new patterns of employment and accept the responsibility to create new jobs'. What nonsense! A few years ago the Labor Government's grand job creation scheme known as the Regional Employment Development scheme, or, very appropriately the RED scheme, achieved so little at such great cost that it became the subject of amusement among local governments throughout this nation. Local governments had virtually an open cheque to sign what they liked for as much as they wanted. How many jobs of substance were created under this scheme? Why was there no effective financial control over the millions of dollars wasted during those years? 
Now all we hear from the Opposition is an extension of the same exercise, dressed in new clothes. The Opposition has proposed the establishment of a so-called community service corps which basically will have the same problems as the RED scheme. What will it do? We are told by the 'donkey walloper' that it will create 50,000 jobs for young workers at junior award rates. 
-As I have said, the Leader of the Opposition talks about creating 50,000 jobs for young people, through his new community support corps. He estimates that the cost will be between $85m and $100m. This works out at approximately $40 per head. He talked about the creation of this program with the full support of the trade union movement in accordance with the existing junior award wages. My simple arithmetic leads me to believe that there is no possible award wage anywhere near $40 a week. That is well below any existing junior award rates. Nevertheless, this is an example of how the Leader of the Opposition has failed to do his basic homework. He has criticised the Federal Government for allegedly reducing its outlays on training programs. 
The Government has emphasised that reductions under the Special Youth Employment Training Program- SYETP- do not reduce the numbers involved, but have been directed at ensuring that employers do not regard the scheme as a means for subsidising their normal employment requirements. Despite this experience the Opposition believes that it can employ people by using unemployment payments as a subsidy to employers and somehow create additional employment opportunities. It is true that some jobs at the margin will probably be found, but the cost to the community, and the overall viability of employment in Australia, will undoubtedly suffer. In some member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development similar programs have been tried. The tendency has been that for every person who has been given a job which is heavily subsidised, a non-subsidised person ultimately loses his job. 
According to the Opposition this Government has not given priority to job training programs, yet we have, through our schemes, trained over 400,000 young people who are now fulfilling their role in the community. The Williams report, for example, demonstrated the need to strengthen technical skills in our population and consequently it has been in these areas that we are concentrating additional expenditure. A further $16.3 has been provided for technical and further education this financial year. 
The Leader of the Opposition maintains that the Government has demonstrated a 'strict determination to prevent any job opportunities being developed by government policy'. Our whole on-going program to strengthen and de- velop manufacturing industry, our assistance to the tourist industry, the increasing flow of foreign investment, the additional funds to the States, and the expansion of mining activity, demonstrate clearly that these areas of development must lead to new job opportunities being created. Whilst Australian industry is more competitive compared with many OECD countries we will continue to maintain our existing export markets and thereby strengthen our industrial base. The economic structure of Australia alone, by such strengthening, will ultimately generate expanding employment opportunities. 
Let us turn now to income tax. The attacks made by the Opposition on the Government's decision to lift the income tax surcharge must be seen for what they are- a cynical attempt to play on the alleged gullibility of the electorate once again; an electorate which has twice decisively thrown the Labor Party into the political wilderness for it knew that Labor's promises of a Utopian future were but as blown leaves in the cold autumn wind. No Liberal government likes to increase taxation. We stand for lower taxes. No government since Federation has been more determined to reduce the size of government and reduce taxation. Nevertheless, the litany of the Opposition and other interest groups within the community, is always the same- 'cut expenditure but don 't touch me '. 
Despite this in the last four Budgets, the share of gross national product taken by the Government has fallen from 24 per cent under the Government of  Sir William  McMahon to a peak of 34.3 per cent under the Whitlam Government. It was then reduced to 28.6 per cent under the present administration, and we expect it to fall to 27.8 per cent this year. In other words, we have so far managed to cut almost half of the Whitlam big government' rise of the past. 
The Federal Public Service has also been reduced by about 3,000 positions fewer than in 1975 after rising by about 32,000 under the Whitlam administration. The only rise in the Public Services has been in the States where it is up some 80,000 since 1975. Through the benefits of the Federal Government's new federalism policy, additional funds have been allocated to the States and regrettably they have used those funds in a manner which I personally believe could be put to the greater benefit of the States rather than simply increasing the size of their bureaucracies. But the fact of the matter is that we have reduced taxation well below the levels of the Hayden era and we will continue to do so. From 1 December, despite what the Opposition says, every single wage earner in Australia will pay less tax. The tax scales of the Hayden period should be seen in comparison. I ask permission to incorporate in  Hansard  the appropriate table. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197908296_59_3.jpg"></graphic>

-I want to turn now to the question of pensions. The fundamental principle of Liberal philiosophy has always been that those most in need should receive maximum possible assistance from the Government. We have maintained our commitment to achieve social reform, and this Budget should be welcomed by all the 1.6 million Australians who are in receipt of the aged pension. Half-yearly indexation has been restored which is a major advance to pensioners. Many members of the Government parties, including myself, urged the Government to restore half-yearly indexation and we are delighted that it has done so. It is this Government which increased the percentage of pensions to 24 per cent of average weekly earnings, well above that achieved under Labor which called itself a government of 'compassion and concern'. Our record will be further improved by the $4.70 per week pension rise in November this year. Total expenditure this financial year on the pensions will rise to $ 10,530m, about 40 per cent of the total welfare budget. 
The Government's decision to widen eligibility for pension entitlements, extension of the income limit for fringe benefits to $40 a week for single people and $68 a week for a married couple will result in an additional 25,000 pensioners qualifying for fringe benefits, which will increase the potential real income by some $500 a year. Other increased benefits to pensioners are the extended eligibility of pensioner health benefit cards to supporting parents and their dependants. Eligible pensioners will continue to receive pharmaceutical benefits free of charge and the Government has also allocated an additional $ 10.5m for aged persons accommodation. An examination of trends in government expenditure in recent years will prove beyond doubt that the Fraser Government has consistently maintained its undertaking in office that those sectors of the Australian community most in need are entitled to receive, and are receiving, the maximum possible assistance from the Government. I commend this Budget to the House. 
-Has the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs seen claims that in his address to last week's National Youth Conference he indicated that the Government was considering removing unemployment benefits from some young people and requiring parents to support and maintain their children? Are these claims correct? 
-As Chairman of the Joint Parliamentary Committee of Public Accounts, I present the 175th report of the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-The Committee's 175th report is the second in a significant series on the use of automatic data processing in the public sector. The first report dealt with the acquisition of large scale systems in the Public Service, especially the high cost that can result and has frequently resulted from unduly prolonging the procurement process. This report concerns the origin, acquisition and development of one major Public Service system- the Mandata project- described by the Public Service Board in its 1 97 1 annual report as:  . . A centralised service-wide computer based personnel and establishment system with direct links to the payroll and superannuation systems, that would provide a response to inquiries as effective as existing systems while providing a superior management information system. 
Our detailed examination of this project confirmed the views we stated in our previous report on the importance of senior management's close involvement in all stages of a major project. The fact that this did not occur for Mandata is a major factor contributing to the difficulties experienced with this project. We would not wish our report to be seen merely as being critical of the commissioners of the Public Service Board. Rather, our recommendations are based on sound management principles and if the commissioners view them in a positive and open way they will lead to a speedy and effective completion of the project. 
Despite the manifest problems the Committee believes that Mandata should be completed as quickly as possible. The project as initially envisaged may bring significant benefits to departmental managers and the Public Service Board. The recommendations in this report will be of particular relevance to all future major projects. The mistakes which plagued Mandata should not be repeated. We believe that the Mandata project was in its initial stages poorly planned and directed. Some aspects of its management are still unsatisfactory. We conclude that the commissioners of the Public Service Board were not well informed on Mandata 's progress. They did not effectively review and control the project's development. There was more than 100 per cent change in the personnel involved in the leadership of the Mandata development team, and this had a major impact on the quality of evidence given to our inquiry. 
The re-organisation of the Board's structure, begun in May 1978, had a significant effect upon the character of our inquiry. The operation of the Mandata office was removed from the control of the ADP division and placed in a direct management relationship, through the Secretary, to the Board itself. From that time, with renewed senior management control and newer project management, the level of co-operation and the quality of information that began to flow to the Committee improved remarkably. Despite the evident improvement, we still must be critical of some of the detailed planning and control yet to be implemented. The Committee believes that Mandata was an example of a situation which will become increasingly common in an era of high technology; for example, uncertainty about the responsibilities of non-technical policy makers, in this case commissioners of the Public Service board and the heads of user departments, in initiating and directing complex technical projects. The Committee concluded that the Public Service Board, which was responsible for developing and operating Mandata, had seriously underestimated the difficulty of implementing the project and overestimated its ability in a field where it had no prior experience. 
Mandata equipment, development and operation have so far cost, in 1977 dollars, more than $I9m and by 1986-87 will have cost more than $45m. Over the same period the Public Service Board expects that the Public Service should have achieved savings of nearly $100m in reduced clerical costs and improved manpower resource management. The Committee considered that significant costs have been incurred on Mandata which would have been avoided had the system development been planned and managed in accordance with the best current practice. We believe that at least several million dollars already lost in the form of unproductive cost benefits was due to project delays and errors of planning and development. The Committee appreciates that not all the delays were within the control of the Board. However, the Committee has identified a minimum of $ 1.2m of unnecessary costs which resulted from the premature acquisition of minicomputers and data concentrator units and unproductive site planning. 
The Committee is concerned about the accuracy of current estimates of costs and benefits and is of the opinion that the Public Service Board should review them immediately. We believe that anticipated economic benefits would be achieved only if the project were to be completed as quickly as possible and better managed than it has been in the past as only slight cost saving advantages were demonstrated to us. The form that savings from Mandata would actually take is still obscure- whether a reduction in the size of the Public Service, or merely a redeployment of displaced staff to other positions in the Service. The Committee is aware that there are social as well as economic advantages and disadvantages. 
The Public Service Board has not fully faced the implications of changes to the workforce that may result from the effects of technological change. It should enunciate its decisions from social as well as economic objectives. We expect that the inquiry into technological change in Australia will be addressing itself to those matters and will assist the Government in formulating guidance for the Public Service Board on acceptable objectives. We believe the Parliament should be informed of these. The Committee is concerned that Public Service departments are not yet fully capable of making effective use of the information that Mandata could provide and training in manpower management is therefore an essential prerequisite to the achievement of the expected benefits. 
This inquiry brought to our attention an important principle in the relationship between the Parliament and the Executive. The Committee had considerable difficulty due to inordinate delays in obtaining adequate documentation about Mandata from the Public Service Board. It was reluctant to provide or had declined to provide documents which were alleged to be Cabinet related interdepartmental documents, reports or material used in the preparation of those documents and reports, on the grounds of privilege. The Committee is of the opinion that the proposed guidelines of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of September 1978 for official witnesses appearing before parliamentary committees in relation to privilege of these documents, has to some extent clarified the situation. But in our case the guidelines were interpreted far too widely by the Board. In the event, representations by the Committee to the Prime Minister achieved the desired result. 
The Westminster concept of ministerial responsibility evolved at a time when government operations were much more simple and it was possible for a diligent Minister to comprehend the full range of activities of his department and to take full responsibility for them. The vast increases in complexity and sophistication and the increase in the volume of work in the last decades have put the Westminster tradition under severe stress. It remains absolutely fundamental to parliamentary government that the Executive must be accountable to Parliament which is properly informed of the activities of government. Therefore the need for scrutiny by parliamentary bodies such as the Public Accounts Committee is even more important and reduces the justification for failure to provide relevant information under the excuse of privilege where documents relating to Cabinet submissions or other interdepartmental activities are denied. The members of the Public Accounts Committee do not accept that a general embargo should be placed on access to all material needed in the preparation of Cabinet submissions. An extension of this principle would make the work of the Public Accounts Committee or any other committees of the Parliament- or even the Parliament- impossible. 
In November last year, 1 1 months ago, we presented the first report in our series on automatic data processing, the acquisition of systems in the Public Service. In spite of the Prime Minister's directive for a response within 6 months, and our own long-standing arrangements with the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and his Department, a response on this subject has not yet been received. Whilst the delay is of concern to the committee, even more disconcerting is a report published in  Computer World  last Friday, 5 October, that new delays are being built into the process of acquiring a computer system making the situation worse than ever. We hope there is no substance to that report. 
The Committee would like to think that the Public Service Board and other interested bodies will examine our recommendations in context and, before the new guidelines are promulgated, will discuss them with the Committee as well as with those who will be charged with the responsibility to permanent heads for the implementation of systems within their departments. The rate of change of computer technology is faster than the community's ability to appreciate it. Whilst there is often criticism that Parliament is not giving its efforts to major social problems this Committee's report represents the most serious attempt by any parliamentary institution to come to grips with the implications of computer technology. 
In undertaking this inquiry the Committee has imposed on itself a very great workload and due acknowledgement must be given to my colleagues on the sub-committee- the honourable member for Lalor,  Mr Barry  Jones,  Senator John  Watson and  Senator Misha  Lajovic. We must also pay tribute to the secretariat of the Committee and its technical adviser,  Mr Peter  MacGregor. I reiterate that we firmly believe that this report is a positive contribution to administrative efficiency and effectiveness. I commend the report to honourable members. 

 -Mr Speaker- 

-The world has been for too long a near silent spectator of the genocide of a people whose only crime was to live in Cambodia at a time when it fell victim to the spread of the Vietnam war and ultimately to the effects of Vietnamese aggression unleashed upon them following nearly four years of the most brutal system of government yet devised by modern man. 
The Pol Pot regime undertook a conscious policy to introduce what it saw as pure communism through social engineering. To this end it set out systematically to eradicate every vestige and every trace of Western influence from that country. As a result of this, from all accounts there was genocide of some two million people or 25 per cent of the Cambodian population. 
The Pol Pot Government was brutal, bestial and bloodthirsty. Every citizen, every Cambodian, of whatever age or sex, who inhabited any town or city was compelled to evacuate. They were allowed to take only what they could physically carry, and many thousands died in the course of this forced march. Few children survived and pregnant women gave birth along the roadside. Patients in every hospital in Phnom Penh were compelled to leave, whatever their condition. Doctors were interrupted in surgery. They were taken out and either thrown out of the window or forced to take to the roads with the remaining inhabitants. Phnom Penh and every other city and town in Kampuchea has since then remained deserted and crumbling, the Khmer Rouge soldiers at that time emptied and looted what was left. 
Phnom Penh shrank from a population of some 2.5 million to an empty and lifeless shell with an estimated population of about 45,000. Masses of people were moved from one side of the country to the other and the border near Vietnam was abandoned absolutely. People were forced to work on the rice fields which were already nationalised. Land was cleared to plant crops such as maize, cassava, yams and sweet potatoes. People worked long and they worked hard. One thing can be said in retrospect. Whatever the massive cost in human life at least at that stage the people of Kampuchea did not face, as they do today, the ever present and very real danger of absolute starvation. Nevertheless, that period of mass slayings and the mindless hatred and destruction which resulted, of orgies of book burning, of fires fed by musical instruments, television sets, radios and even Buddha images, of the absolute destruction in Phnom Penh of the Roman Catholic cathedral to such an extent that not a stone stood upon a stone, left that country in a lower relative state than possibly any nation in recorded history, and I do not exclude from that parts of western Europe in 1945. Life in Kampuchea, insofar as it exists, is mainly in the countryside. The concept of the mobile gulag that was so clearly developed during the period of the Pol Pot regime of some three and a quarter years of terror still exists today. 
What we have today therefore is the destruction of a people. The western world in particular is facing the very real problem of what it can do to help save the last vestiges of humanity in Kampuchea. We have heard in recent months horrendous accounts from the very few journalists and others who have been allowed into that nation. I see no point in repeating them in detail today. What is quite clear is that the Australian Government was one of the very first- as it should have been because of our geographical position- to appreciate the fact that we had to take whatever action we could to alleviate the massive human suffering of the people of Kampuchea and, wherever possible, assist the border states such as Thailand which, as we are all aware, in the last two years in particular has been facing the enormous social and economic burden brought upon them by the refugees from all over Indo-China, Laos, Vietnam and now Kampuchea. 
What has been done in this regard is relevant. Already Australia has pledged a contribution of some $3. 7m to aid Kampuchea. In addition, we have undertaken to pay the costs of charter flights to get aid from private relief organisations into that country. In this regard, it is particularly important that members of this Parliament tell the Australian people why it is necessary that they should on an individual basis do all they can to support the appeals which are currently being mounted by non-government organisations such as Austcare, the Australian Red Cross, Community Aid Abroad, the Australian Council of Churches, Australian Catholic Relief and the Australian Freedom from Hunger Campaign. The target of this combined operation is $lm. Surely that is not too much to ask of the Australian people who in this part of the world are so far ahead in terms of their standards of living and the quality of life that they enjoy? If we seriously expect the world to regard us as moral leaders on the fundamental questions of life and death then we have to be prepared as a people to stand up and support a just and essential cause. In days yet to come the program announced by the Australian Government and the attitude demonstrated by the Australian people will be remembered not just by the people of Kampuchea but also by the nations in the region in which we live and in which we will continue to exist for many years to come. We must demon.trate our co-operation and our sincere regard for the welfare of people in matters such as this. We are building up for this nation an appreciation in our region, an expectation that we are truly part of the region, that we do not shirk our responsibilities and that we will always do our best for our neighbours. 
The record which we have demonstrated in the last two years in terms of the problem of refugees from Indo-China speaks for itself. Although we are a nation of only 14.5 million people, we are among the foremost of nations of the western world which are absorbing refugees from Indo-China. Regrettably, what we are seeing in Kampuchea today is merely an extension of the problem which has existed in that part of the world more or less since the first period of the Vietnam war. Whereas in the past people left the region essentially for political and economic reasons we are now facing not only the prospect of mass starvation within Kampuchea but also the quite strong probability, especially if there is a military offensive along the Thai border in the next few weeks, of a further mass migration of Khmer citizens who are simply trying to save their lives either from the bullets of the opposing  forces or from  the ravages of starvation and the total breakdown of health and communications in that country. What will happen will obviously depend on the approach taken not only by Australia but also by the entire world. We have not yet seen a clearly enunciated international call launched by the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund or the International Committee of the Red Cross but we anticipate that this will take place within the next few days. 
There are political problems. It is obviously essential that before massive aid can be introduced into Kampuchea agreement must be reached between the authorities in Phnom Penh and international relief organisations to ensure that the aid once it arrives can be distributed to the entire population, not just to those sections of the country which are under the administration of the pro- Vietnamese government or the Pol Pot forces. These are difficulties which have yet to be faced. One thing is certain. Once the aid offices are open, and the visas have been issued to enable personnel to enter Phnom Penh, once communications are re-established- this is an enormous area in which the Australian Government could well play a role- we will be in a position not only to fly aircraft carrying rice and medical supplies into the country but also to distribute such aid. When we have reached that stage it is probably fair to say that the essential danger point will have passed. But the crisis will be with us very much in the next few weeks. If, within the next month, in particular, we do not help to solve these problems, political and otherwise, and develop the administration on the ground for a major relief effort within Kampuchea, it will be too late for hundreds of thousands of people. As I said in my opening remarks, they have committed no crime. They were just unfortunate enough to have been born citizens of a state which has been totally destroyed by war and is now racked by famine to a level which we have not seen in modern history. 
The people of Australia and the rest of the world, as well as the people of Kampuchea are facing a period of trial, as did the people of Western Europe during the period leading up to 1939. We all know what happened as a result. We must demonstrate through our humanity as well as through our diplomatic and military capacity that we seek nothing in South-East Asia except peace. We ask nothing of the Vietnamese people but that they should settle down to live in peace. We ask for nothing more of Indo China than that the people of Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam should live as neighbours in a state of peace. But, above all, sovereignty must be returned to Kampuchea and Laos. What we are seeing today is the gradual but total destruction of the concept of sovereignty in Indo China. 
We are seeing the establishment of a new Indo Chinese empire under one nation, controlled from Hanoi. Naturally the nations of South East Asia such as Thailand and other members of the Association of South East Asian Nations are extremely concerned about the implications of one state being absorbed by another. They realise that, if they accept that borders can be ignored, their own future is in danger. If the offensive is launched soon along the border with Thailand, troops of the Vietnamese Army may cross that border and, as a result a series of serious international incidents may occur. We must support the fundamental principle that no state has the right to invade across the borders of another. That is what we have seen in Kampuchea and its relationship with Vietnam. While that problem remains, we will face continually major difficulties in terms of the basic political stability of the region, not only of Indo China but also of the entire area of South East Asia. In the midst of all this, while the chanceries of the world perhaps may spend their days and nights debating the merits of which government in Kampuchea they should recognise, the simple human fact remains that thousands and thousands of citizens of that nation are going to die because the system within their country has totally broken down: Communications are inadequate; their food supplies have failed; they have no medicines or medical personnel; they have little capacity to look after themselves; they are dispirited; and they are a broken people. They look to us and to other nations of the Western world for support. I am certain that the Government and the people of Australia will pull their full weight because, as I said earlier, our record in respect of Kampuchea is going to be seen by the world as demonstrable evidence that Australians do care and that we are concerned for the welfare of our fellow human beings. 
-Can the Minister for Special Trade Representations and Acting Minister for Trade and Resources inform the House of the outcome of his recent talks with the New Zealand authorities on closer economic union and what action has been taken, or is contemplated, by the two governments concerned? 
-I present the 176th and 177th reports of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
-by leave-I present a statement by the Tertiary Education Commission entitled 'Funding of Tertiary Education'. I move: 
That this House, in accordance with the provisions of the Parliamentary Papers Act 1908, authorises the publication of the paper. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-by leave-The Public Accounts Committee has decided to depart from its usual practice of not releasing evidence submitted to it in advance of its report. Due to the importance of this inquiry, it has decided to table the submission from the Tertiary Education Commission. This submission to the Public Accounts Committee is the first definitive statement by the Tertiary Education Commission, which was established in June 1977, on its functions and operations. The submission not only provides details of the procedures followed by the Commission in recommending Commonwealth funds for tertiary education and in administering approved programs but also describes the respective roles of the Commission, State authorities and tertiary institutions. 
The Public Accounts Committee and the Tertiary Education Commission's Chairman, Professor Peter Karmel, believe the early publication of this document will give individuals and institutions a further opportunity to provide comment to the Committee before it formally takes oral evidence. The Committee believes that it will also help to satisfy a wide community interest that has been generated by the inquiry. 
The Public Accounts Committee 's inquiry into the funding of tertiary education was initiated in May 1979 to review the arrangements for Commonwealth funding of universities, colleges of advanced education and technical and further education with particular reference to the respective roles of the Commonwealth, State and institutional bodies concerned and with the objective to find whether the administration and co-ordination of funding arrangements are cost effective. The terms of reference for the inquiry are: 
To inquire into the system of grants to support tertiary education; 
To inquire into the operations of the Tertiary Education Commission and its associated councils with particular reference to: 
The relationships between the Commission and the councils and State education co-ordinating authorities, State departments concerned with education, and tertiary education institutions; 
The procedures adopted by the Commission and the councils to require the appropriate authorities to account for the expenditure of funds appropriated by the Australian Parliament in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, the appropriate State grants legislation, and the Audit Act, and to determine whether the conditions attached to grants are adequate; 
The procedures adopted by the Commission and the councils to evaluate, or have evaluated, tertiary education institutions, their courses and the 'product' of tertiary education; and 
The procedures adopted by the Commission and the councils to investigate, report on and recommend alternative action for the allocation of resources in the tertiary education sector. 
As a result of our Federal-State Public Accounts Committee conference in June 1977, it was agreed that real advantages might be gained in conducting inquiries into subjects such as education where concurrent responsibilities existfor example sections 107 and 108 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia. We have therefore invited the public accounts committees of State parliaments to consider holding complementary inquiries as State authorities have a constitutional responsibility for the administration of tertiary institutions, including accountability for the distribution of funds to those institutions. 
I refer now to the Committee's 176th report which I have just tabled. Each year the AuditorGeneral reports to Parliament. The Committee's 176th report concerns matters raised in the Auditor-General's reports for 1977-78. During the inquiry, the Committee sought submissions from several departments and government authorities and held public hearings into matters relating to the Departments of Defence, Education, Primary Industry and National Development as well as the Canberra Commercial Development Authority. 
The committee examined the AuditorGeneral's reference to the handling by the Department of Defence of rental charges on Royal Australian Navy pipelines at Fremantle. The Committee was appalled that, although an oil company had made proposals in 1969 to effect lease rental changes in 1 970, at the date of its inquiry almost 10 years later, the Department had been unable to complete the matter. The Committee has also been critical of the lack of adequate departmental monitoring procedures which can allow overpayments and undercollection of revenue by departments to continue over many years. 
The Committee examined the beef industry incentive payments scheme which was hurriedly introduced in 1977. The Department of Primary Industry, in the Committee's view, demonstrated a lack of some capacity to cope with stringent time constraints. The Department conceded that, in certain areas, it had misinterpreted its legislation. The Committee noted inadequate prepayment and automatic data processing administrative control procedures and was also critical of the apparent lack of flexibility within the Public Service to meet short term staff needs such as those which arose in this case. 
In examining aspects of the Department of Education's control over student assistance allowances, the Committee is aware of the Department's difficulties in reconciling the need for prompt and regular payment of benefits with the demands of proper control of public moneys. However, the Committee believes that the Department's previous neglect of control and recovery functions, particularly in relation to its ADP controls, has contributed to the present high level of overpayments. The Committee was disappointed with the poor preparation of witnesses and with the uncertainty exhibited by the Department with regard to the degree of cooperation by tertiary institutions. The Department had initially contended that there was a lack of co-operation by institutions but progressively modified this during the course of the inquiry. The Department showed an attitude of apparent resignation to continuing high overpayments in its stance that as students did not always observe its requirements then its procedures must be adapted accordingly to allow for student shortcomings. Such an attitude is not acceptable to the Committee, which has emphasised the view that receipt of public money carries with it corresponding obligations and responsibilities which cannot be ignored or minimised. 
The Committee has recommended changes to the application forms for the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme which it believes will place greater onus on students to recognise and act upon their responsibility to advise the Department of status changes. The Committee has also recommended that the five major student assistance schemes which are currently not enacted should be legislated. It was advised by the Department that such a task would occupy a number of staff for approximately five years, primarily in the drafting of regulations. This estimate particularly dismayed the Committee in view of its recommendations in its 144th and 159th reports, which were directed at reducing the delays in the preparation of subordinate legislation. 
The Committee has commenced inquiries into three other topics arising from the AuditorGeneral's 1977-78 reports and will table, when completed, substantive reports on off-shore petroleum royalties, the late submission of financial statements by statutory authorities and other bodies, and the Canberra Commercial Development Authority. 
I refer now to the Committee's 177th report, which presents the official response from the Department of Finance, in the form of Finance 
Minutes, to the Committee's 168th and 173rd reports. These reports concerned expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer for the financial year 1976-77 and expenditure from the Advance to the Minister for Finance for the financial year 1977-78. The Committee has commented on the response of the Department of Defence to the difficulty of introducing procedures to ensure adequate commitment control. The Committee proposes to review this when it again examines the Department's use of the Advance to the Minister for Finance. I commend the reports to honourable members. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, as  Chairman  of the Joint Parliamentary Committee of Public Accounts, I present the 178th report of the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-The 178th report relates specifically to evidence taken in connection with items of expenditure from the Advance to the Minister for Finance in 1978-79. As honourable members are aware, after the close of each financial year the Minister for Finance submits to Parliament a statement of expenditure from the Advance to the Minister for Finance showing allocations to heads of expenditure made by him under section 36A of the Audit Act. It is a long standing practice of this Committee to report upon the use of the Advance during the Budget session. The Committee received explanations from departments on each item shown in the Minister's statement. In all, we examined 106 departmental explanations and sought additional information from seven departments. Twenty further explanations were obtained from departments and authorities in respect of a submission from the Department of Foreign Affairs relating to an overseas imprest account. Four items were selected for further public examination. A submission was also obtained from Telecom Australia in relation to explanations from six departments concerning billing cycles. 
A number of drawings from the Advance were for salaries and allowances which fell outside the ambit of section 5 of Appropriation Act (No. 1 ) which was first included in 1973-74 to reduce a very heavy use of the Advance to satisfy salary determinations. The introductory chapter of this report gives a more detailed explanation of the operation of this section which provides a special appropriation authorising the Minister for Finance, during a particular financial year, to issue out of Consolidated Revenue Fund such amounts: 
. as he determines to be necessary to meet estimated increases id salaries and wages, and payments in the nature of salary for which provision is made m Schedule 2 to the Act; and 
Which become payable during that year in accordance with a law or an award, order or determination under a law. 
In examining expenditure from the Advance to the Minister for Finance, the Committee sought to ascertain whether or not expenditure from the Advance to the Minister for Finance had been confined to urgent and unforeseen requirements for which provision could not have been made in the original and additional Estimates. The Committee also sought to ascertain whether or not the Departments concerned had maintained efficient administration in the expenditure under the item selected for inquiry. Evidence taken during this inquiry has shown there were cases of clerical error, administrative oversight, procedural weaknesses within departments and inadequate estimating. Attention has been drawn to these inadequacies where they have been discovered. We found that, generally, expenditure from the Advance was confined to urgent and unforeseeable requirements for which provision could not have been made in the Appropriation Acts. The policy of financial restraint imposed upon departments over the last few years has required them to apply greater care to ensure that their financial requirements are met within the approved appropriations. Whereas in previous years the Committee found evidence that some departments believed that the Advance to the Minister for Finance was a simple means of covering short falls in their estimating performance, there has been a marked improvement in departments' estimating which has meant that less demands have been made from the Advance to the Minister for Finance, except in those cases which were urgent and unforeseen. 
In the report the Committee has emphasised that departments or authorities which receive a reimbursement claim in respect of overseas transactions have a clear responsibility to make payment as soon as possible. The Committee expressed concern that debtor departments are frequently delaying reimbursement of claims because of a shortage of funds in the relevant appropriation. It is the Committee's view that the payment of any account should not be delayed because of lack of funds and that departments should be encouraged to apply for funds from the Advance to the Minister for Finance for this purpose. The Committee believes that the Commonwealth should pay its bills promptly. Failure to do so could cause liquidity problems for others. On 9 November 1 974 the then Prime Minister issued instructions that the Commonwealth should as a matter of policy satisfy its creditors as quickly as possible. We believe that financial obligations should be settled by Commonwealth departments and authorities within the normal 30 day business cycle or earlier if incentive discounts are available for prompt settlement. 
A detailed explanation on the development and use of the Advance to the Minister for Finance is provided in Chapter 1 of the Committee's 173rd Report which was tabled at this time last year, while a report from the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations of August 1979 provides additional background. The Senate Committee in that report concluded that the current system for the use of the advance is satisfactory. However, it recommended that: 
Expenditure from the Advance in addition to items already appropriated for, or new items, be permitted only in urgent and unforeseen 'circumstances. The above criteria be set out in the finance regulations made under the Audit Act. 
The Committee further recommended that: 
The explanations accompanying the appropriation Bills, which are examined by Senate Estimates Committees, be accompanied by a separate section of each Department showing the funds which have already been provided from the Advance. 
The Public Accounts Committee agrees with these recommendations. The Senate Committee also recommended that: 
The amount appropriated to the Advance in Appropriation Acts (No. 1 and No. 2) be limited to 2.3 per cent ofthe total of the previous year's general appropriation Acts. If the amount is exceeded, then the matter should be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations and the House of Representatives Standing Committe on Expenditure. 
The Public Accounts Committee would agree that the amount appropriated for the Advance to the Minister for Finance should be kept to a minimum. However, we have reservations about applying any arbitrary limit based on historical expenditure patterns as the Advance is specifically designed to finance urgent and unforeseen expenditure. The Senate Committee's final recommendation is that: 
A statement of approvals of expenditure from the Advance be published at the end of each calendar month and then tabled in Parliament at the earliest opportunity. The statement should indicate into which category each item of expenditure falls, i.e. whether it is expenditure to fund payments pending the issue of Governor-General's Warrants, to make advances which will be repaid within the financial year, to make moneys available for supplementation of existing appropriations for specified purposes or to make moneys available for new services for which no specific appropriation has been made. The statement should show all expenditure which requires the creation of a new appropriation item, but only expenditure above $50,000 for the other categories. 
The Public Accounts Committee supports the need for keeping the Parliament better informed. However, the Committee believes that the administrative arrangements to provide such a statement for parliamentary review purposes, may not prove to be cost-effective. Nevertheless, the recommendation should be seriously considered. The Public Accounts Committee has traditionally examined the Advance to the Minister for Finance in detail and intends to continue its long standing practice of reporting to both Houses of the Parliament during the Budget session on the use of the Advance. It is appropriate for matters relating to the Advance to the Minister for Finance to be referred to the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. 
-This is a profound and very important debate. It is a matter of grave concern to the Australian people, as it should be, that any group of human beings anywhere in the world should be suffering deprivation and hunger at this time, whether in East Timor, Cambodia or Africa. The particular reference to East Timor is of relevance to Australia because East Timor is a neighbouring island and we have had an association with the people for at least 100 years. It is profoundly upsetting to me to hear the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  trying on this occasion to make cheap political capital out of such an extremely sad human catastrophe. Let it never be forgotten that he was a Minister in the last Whitlam Government, which in 1974 virtually acquiesced in what ultimately took place when by military force the Indonesians took over the Portuguese half of Timor. That is a political fact with which the Timorese and we will have to live for a long time. 
Today the Australian Government has no alternative but to see what we can do, with the best means at our disposal, to ensure that the people of Timor are given maximum support and assistance at this most difficult time. Various reports have been made, not the least of which was by Peter Rodgers, the  Age  correspondent, whose article received considerable coverage in the Australian media only a few days ago. He put some very interesting views which are worth repeating. For example, he said that claims that some 330,000 deaths had taken place were totally erroneous. Other people say that perhaps 100,000 people died. However, one thing is certain. People did die. What is equally certain is that we have a profound responsibility today to do what we can to help those who are still alive. That is the object of our policy. It is not to stand here complaining, and talking about the past, over which we now have no control. We had an opportunity to make our voice heard in Jakarta, as the previous Government did, it failed to do so. Anyone who wishes to dispute my words would do well to remember the meeting which took place in North Queensland- I believe it was in Townsville- between the  President  of Indonesia and the then Prime Minister of Australia. That was an occasion of infamy in the nation's history so far as Timor is concerned. 
Reference has been made to the U.N. Decolonisation Committee, whose report was brought down and debated in New York in the last 24 hours or so. It is true that the Timor resolution was carried by 55 votes in favour, with 26 against, including Australia. It is also true, and must be recorded and understood, that there were 42 abstentions. Some 29 countries did not participate at all in the vote. This represents an increase of 16 over the figure for the previous debate last year on this resolution. Are we going to participate year after year in a debate on this subject when, like it or not, the political fact today is that Timor is part of Indonesia? If we are going to help the people of Timor we must do so with the support of the Indonesian authorities, and that is what we have done. We have to be realistic. There are very pressing problems in Timor today. Whatever the future will hold for the people of Timor, we must not lose sight of the fact that when the Indonesian authorities took over Timor they were facing some fundamental administrative problems which have obviously had a major part to play in the capacity of any administration to get assistance to the people of that island. 
For four centuries, the Portuguese Government did virtually nothing for Timor. Today, at least for the first time, an attempt is being made by the Indonesian Government to build the first macadamised road outside the port of Dili. It has built schools and health clinics. It is trying to do something for the people who are coming down from the mountains in a country which, at the best of times, found itself more or less on the poverty line. It is not a rich country by any stretch of the imagination. What it has been through in the last four years gives us every reason for concern. But it must be humanitarian concern based on our capacity today to decide what we can do to help the people of Timor. I believe that this Government has a good record in that respect. I now want to tell the House what the Government has done in recent years in this regard. 
On 18 September and 2 November 1975 we announced contributions of $250,000 for assistance in East and West Timor. The balance of the money went to the International Red Cross for its West Timor fund and that was passed on to the Indonesian Red Cross. A statement to this effect was made in this House on 7 September 1976. A contribution of aid worth $250,000 to the Indonesian Red Cross was announced by the Prime Minister in October 1 976. A further contribution of $250,000 was made in September 1978. A contribution of oil and biscuits worth $200,000 to the IRC and the International Committee for the Red Cross as a joint relief operation was announced in August 1 979. 
There have been reports in this House and elsewhere that some of that assistance was not used as effectively or as quickly as members would have liked. But one thing is clear, we have learnt from that experience and I am able to tell this House that in the last three days there have been two flights by Royal Australian Air Force aircraft into Dili carrying our aid directly to the Timorese people. They are not going through Jakarta or anywhere else. They are going straight from Australia to Timor. It could, of course, be asked why this was not done earlier. The reason is clear. The Indonesian Government, for reasons best known to itself, made its own decision as to how assistance should be given. It preferred organisations- either the International Red Cross, the Indonesian Red Cross, the Catholic relief organisations or the American relief organisations- to be the primary organisers of relief supplies. Unfortunately, as we have seen on many occasions in the past all over the world, provision of aid, the supply and the ultimate utilisation of that assistance is not necessarily done as expeditiously as we would all wish. Mistakes are made. But at least we can say to the House that from now onwards Australian assistance to Timor will go on Australian aircraft and will go straight to Timor and nowhere else. I am sure that on this basis we will see a pronounced and most definite improvement in the relationship between the delivery of Australian aid and the capacity of the people of Timor to enjoy it. 
Let me get back to the question of Australian Government assistance. In addition to the assistance of $200,000 given in August this year, which I mentioned, we made a further contribution of corn valued at $625,000 to the IRC and the ICRC, again as a joint relief operation, in September 1979. A further contribution of oil and corn valued at $333,000 was made in November. On 6 November- last week- a further $2m worth of aid was announced as direct relief from the Australian Government. That totals nearly $4m which I believe is a very responsible figure considering the size of the problems of Timor, the difficulties of communicating with the Government and the people there and the fact that a relatively small population will be able to share in this assistance. 
In addition, let us not ignore the tremendous support being given by voluntary relief organisations within Australia. We have, over the years, built up an admirable reputation as a nation of compassion and concern for those people elsewhere in the international community who need our support. For that reason, the Government has recently announced that from now onwards all assistance given to humanitarian relief appeals for Timor will attract tax deductibility on exactly the same basis as was given for donations in respect of Cambodia. This is a clear reflection of the fact that the Government appreciates that in situations like this it is not just a case of Government support but that it is truly a national effort. The point was made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)-  who I notice has not even bothered to stay in the House for the remainder of this debate although he put it on the agenda for todaythat it is believed that the Australian people are to be given every opportunity to demonstrate their concern for what has happened in Timor. Australians can demonstrate that as an affluent country they are prepared to do whatever they can to assist their neighbours, whoever they may be and under whatever political regime controls them. They are still human beings. They deserve our support and they will receive our support to the best of our nation's capacity. This is a record of which we have every reason to be proud and it is certainly not one that we should view with any concern beyond the fact that we are doing our duty by these people, by Australia and by the world. 
I want to make a few remarks on the question of family reunion. This was not brought up by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition but it is a matter of considerable significance and importance to a lot of people. We have received some 600 applications requesting family reunification from the Timorese who came to Australia in the early days after the Indonesian takeover. We have taken some people within that category. They are either in Australia or are still subject to being processed by the Australian Embassy in Indonesia when and if they apply. This is important because we are demonstrating in respect of family reunions for Timorese people- as we did with, for example, the similar problems in Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos and also the Middle East- that we are prepared to do our utmost on the basis of humanitarianism to bring together families which are disunited by events over which they had absolutely no control such as war and so forth. This demonstrates once again that this Government is doing all it can to maintain a humanitarian posture in this most difficult situation. 
I want to make the point clear to this House that nothing will be gained from debate, whether it be in this House or in the media of Australia, if we are to believe that by making it difficult for the Indonesians we will somehow or other be able to help the people of Timor. That is an absolute nonsense. We have told the Indonesians time and time again that it is relevant to their relations with Australia, to their public position in Australia and to their acceptance by the people of Australia that they must be prepared at all times to work with us to ensure that people such as the Timorese are given the maximum support available. We are confident on the basis of the record which has been given to us by the Indonesian authorities that they are doing a very good job indeed in supporting what they know are major social and economic problems in Timor. They are well aware that the whole country has to be virtually rebuilt. They are well aware that when the Fretilin forces took to the hills many villages were destroyed, the crops were not grown and people today are starving. But their support for these people will depend not only on their own efforts but also on the efforts of nations such as Australia. 
I want to end this debate with this major point: No nation has equalled our record of assistance to the Timorese people with the possible exception of the Indonesian Government. We are second to none in terms of humanitarian support for the Timorese. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-This is a very significant debate in the relatively uncluttered history of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts as far as the Federal Parliament is concerned. This Committee originally had its historical base in a similar committee established in the Parliament of the State of Victoria. When the first Australian Federal Parliament was established in that city, the Founding Fathers thought, and rightly so, that there needed to be within the structure of the Federal Parliament a committee system which would not only give to the House the capacity at all times to oversee the activities of the Executive in the wider sense but, more specifically, be able to support in the House, through it, the work of the Auditor-General; and be able to guarantee that public funds were spent not only according to the wishes of Parliament but also in the most effective manner to benefit the Australian people. 
It seems extraordinary that during the early years of the Great Depression when there was a serious attempt by the Australian Government of the day to reduce the level of public expenditure, the Public Accounts Committee was one of the victims of that policy. For financial reasons, it simply ceased to exist. Nevertheless, in 1951, essentially due to the efforts of Professor Bland, the then member for Warringah, the Public Accounts Committee in its present form was reestablished as a joint committee of the Australian Parliament. Those of us who have served on the Committee believe that we have, over the years, performed a useful role. It is my personal view that part of our success rests on the fact that it is a joint committee of the Parliament. In other words it is made up of senators as well as members of the House of Representatives. 
It is worth while remembering that in the Constitution, where reference is made to the Australian Parliament, we are told that the Parliament consists of two Houses- the Senate and the House of Representatives. It is a pity that in recent years there appears to be- the point was made by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)-  a tendency for the two Houses to grow further and further apart and for them more or less to run their own course, to seek their own objectives and to establish their own committees within the confines of the respective Houses. A joint committee has the unique capacity to give to the Parliament as a whole a consensus on the consideration of subjects of fiscal responsibilitythe matters which we are responsible for on this Committee- so that both Houses of the Parliament at all times are acquainted with the state of the nation's expenditure so far as the public sector in particular is concerned. 
The amendments which we are debating tonight are of particular significance in a number of very fundamental ways. This is the first opportunity, since 1951 when the Committee was reestablished, for us more or less to bring our procedures, our machinery of operation, up to date. Whilst there have been similar committees of the House, such as the Joint Committee on Public Works, the powers, responsibilities and administrative arrangements under which the joint committees have functioned have for some unknown reason been fairly different on a number of very significant points. For this reason, the changes which we are making tonight will, for example, remove the restriction on the number of sectional committees. Over the years this restriction has had the effect of limiting the Public Accounts Committee to two sub-committees operating at any one time. In view of the vast areas which we have tried to cover, it is obvious that if the Committee is limited on that basis, in the period of a three-year Parliament, or even less, the Committee cannot cover the number of departments and statutory authorities for which it is responsible. Therefore, the decision to lift that restriction means that we will be able to establish subcommittees of approximately three members. This could result literally in a doubling of our capacity in terms of the number of individual inquiries we will be able to conduct at any one time. This is significant because we have been told, as a result of a very good report of a Senate committee recently published, that there are over 250 statutory bodies in the Federal sphere which are meant to report to this Parliament. 
It is strange that until the Senate committee conducted its review we did not know how many statutory bodies had been established by this Parliament since 1901. What this demonstrates quite clearly is that where at the moment there are some three committees of the Parliamentnamely, the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure, the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations and the Public Accounts Committeewhich are in one way or another involving themselves in the activities of administration and Federal government expenditure, the field we are covering is so absolutely vast that, if each member of both Houses of Parliament spent his or her entire time working on committees of this type, I suspect that we would still not be able to cover the area adequately. 
I think it is worth putting on record the fact that the Public Accounts Committee, in any average year's activity, conducts a number of inquiries. These include inquiries into the Advance to the Minister for Finance, the Auditor-General's report which is tabled in Parliament every year, and his supplementary reports which also are tabled. In addition, we conduct at least two, and sometimes as many as four, major vertical inquiries into some specific area of government activity and expenditure. This means that in addition to these general inquiries, such as into the Advances to the Minister for Finance or the Auditor-General's reports, we are looking at approximately 12 to 15 departments at least every year. In addition, there are many, many internal areas of departments or of specific expenditure which we also look at in terms of these more general reports. In view of the substantial number of meetings that we hold and the fact that we table between five and seven reports in this Parliament every year, I think it is fair to say that the Australian people, and this Parliament, have in every sense of the word received value for money from the activities which we have carried out. 
In that context, in particular I note with great satisfaction and gratitude the tremendous contribution which has been made by those who are members of the Committee because, as we all know, an Act of Parliament may establish a body but, unless we have within it a group of people who are willing to work hard, obviously the Parliament will not receive adequate results. I note particularly the activities and the tremendous help of the honourable member for Banks, who is Vice-Chairman. When I first went on the Committee after the Federal election in May 1974, he had been a member of the Committee. He has served on it consistently ever since. Whilst this is his last Parliament, I am sure that all honourable members will join with me in congratulating him on the significant role he has played over the years in developing the Public Accounts Committee, and in my opinion- and I am sure my colleagues would agree with me- establishing it in the role which it has always sought to have, namely, that of the premier financial committee of the Parliament. Other members of the Committee, in addition to the honourable member for Banks, include the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin),  the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield),  the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe), Senator Lajovic, Senator Watson  and  Senator Georges.  Other former members of the Committee have served extremely well in the interests of the Parliament and the constitutents. Taxation, after all, and the manner in which it is spent, should be the primary responsibility of this House. 
I turn now to some specific matters concerning the amendments in the Bill. I mentioned earlier the significance of the statutory authorities. Under the current Act we have had a very fundamental problem in this regard in that unless a statutory body was specifically mentioned in a report to the Parliament by the Auditor-General the Public Accounts Committee was not able to conduct an inquiry into it. As a result of these amendments no restraints of that type will apply. We will be able, at our own initiative as well as on the basis of the report of the Auditor-General, to conduct an inquiry into any statutory authority responsible for reporting to this Parliament. This is a very significant amendment but we will not be able to look at bodies which are under joint control. I refer to a Federal and State body, such as the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation, or a foreign government working with the Australian Government. We understand these limitations. For constitutional reasons it is obvious that we could not take unilateral decisions to make those examinations. However, provided the other body, whether it be a State or foreign body, agrees to the conduct of an investigation and ultimate report to the Parliament, that may of course take place. 
In addition we are not able to look at the affairs of the Northern Territory or the external territories of the Commonwealth. We looked into this matter at great depth. It was our policy, I believe correctly, that since the Northern Territory in particular is rapidly proceeding towards full independence- it has a new constitution and the same rights as other States of the Commonwealth- therefore it would not be proper for a committee of the Federal Parliament to involve itself in its activities. Nevertheless there are a whole range of areas in which the Public Accounts Committee will be able to expand itself as a result of the proposed changes to the Act. 
Another matter of considerable importance is that we are also being given the authority to look into efficiency audits which will be tabled in this Parliament by the Auditor-General. This is an area in which I personally and other members of the Committee have played a very close role in recent years, that is, introducing into the public sector and into this Parliament through amendments to the Audit Act the concept of efficiency audits which will widen the scope of the audit in the traditional sense. The Auditor-General will now, not only be interested in a regulatory audit, namely, whether in fact money is spent in accordance with government regulation, but at least as important if not more so- whether in fact those funds were spent as economically and efficiently as possible. Today that is regarded as the major element of review. It is an area which is gong to be of continuing importance as the role of government. Despite the fact that many of us believe that at the moment it is far too large, it will continue to expand with its involvement in various activities in both the private sector and, or course, the public sector. Therefore, the responsibility of this Parliament to carry out these reviews effectively will become more and more important. 
This also raises for us the difficulty of staffing. This Parliament in recent years has had limitations placed upon it in the matter of increasing staff the same way that departments of state have had limitations placed on them. It is my personal view that the Parliament should be regarded differently from departments of state. Not only should the Parliament be responsible for its own budget but also it should be responsible for its staffing. In this regard it is particularly important to remember that in recent years a very significant number of reports have been tabled not only from this Parliament but also as a result of royal commissions and other commissions of inquiry initiated at the government level. Numerous reports have been tabled in the Parliament as a result of the work of specific committees of the two Houses of this Parliament. Those reports cover a whole range of activities- health, social welfare, the environment, law and government and so on. 
I venture to suggest again that in terms of value for money the Australian taxpayer has done extremely well on the basis of the work done by members of this Parliament. For example, the total annual cost of running all of the parliamentary committees is in the vicinity of a quarter of a million dollars. If honourable members were to examine the estimates of expenditure of departments of state on running various inquiries they would find that the cost of the inquiry into public administration at one stage was in excess of $ 1.5m. That expenditure was incurred for one inquiry alone. Committees of this Parliament have never achieved that level of expenditure. When I consider the two reports tabled in this Parliament by the Public Accounts Committee in the last year or so on the introduction of computers and computer technology into the public sector it is worthwhile noting that the total cost of that exercise was less than $50,000. Yet we have been able in those two reports to point to areas where, on a conservative basis, we estimate that there will be direct savings if our recommendations are carried out of at least $6m. The trend over recent years has been that the reports tabled in this Parliament by its committees have had a much greater rate of success in having their recommendations accepted into policy by government than have many of the reports brought down by royal commissions and other bodies working from departments or at the behest of government. I do not wish to draw any conclusions from this. I merely state the facts as I see them. I therefore confirm my belief that parliaments and the committees of parliaments have a very real role to play. 
I am reminded of the comment made to me recently by an honourable colleague, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley),  when he likened the roles of the committees of the Parliament and the Parliament by saying that he saw the committees as the work room and the Parliament as the shop window. I think that is an appropriate and accurate way of making the distinction. The so-called role of parliament in the Westminster tradition, which was once seen as the Parliament being a place where gentlemen of leisure could come together to make their views known on whether the Government was doing what they thought it should, be it on fiscal matters, financial policy or any other domestic issues, is as relevant today as it ever was. We are today dealing with a highly sophisticated and technological world. We are dealing with a system of government which requires our total commitment as members of these houses. I do not accept the view that the committee system as presently arranged is, in a sense, destroying the Parliament or could possibly destroy the Parliament. 
I think it is worth while noting the fact that the Mother of Parliaments in Westminster is at this very moment establishing a system of subject committees which will involve its members in actively pursuing the activities of departments of state, not just for a day or a week, not just on the basis of the odd subject, but for 365 days of the year. In other words there will be a group of parliamentarians continually overviewing the activities of the Executive. My interpretation of the Westminster system suggests that our ancestors would applaud such a trend because it merely emphasises once again that it is the Parliament which must hold the sword over the Executive. It is the Parliament to which the Executive must report. It is the Parliament which in turn must report to the nation which elected its members in the first place. If we do not allow ourselves in any degree to weaken this umbilical cord between the community which we represent and the right of parliament always to be assured that the activities of government are in the interests of the nation and that the funds gathered from the people by way of taxes are spent in the best interests of the nation, then we will assuredly be able to say to those who have elected us to this august body: ' We have served you well '. 
There are problems, however. The responsibilities which rest upon committees of these Houses are great. Of fundamental importance is the ultimate quality of the reports which we table. For example, the people who are called to give evidence before us must always be of high probity whose principles are beyond question and who have a capacity to make a real contribution to our deliberations. Should there be any doubt on such a matter, it is always the responsibility of the committee and of its  chairman  to ensure that the committee is enabled to take whatever evidence is required, either by verbal means or by written submission. But the important thing is that we had the crucible of enormous power. We can destroy individuals simply by allowing a person to come before us in a public hearing, with the Press present, and to make various comments about somebody for whom he may not particularly care. The reality we are facing today is that the media tend to look for the criticisms and are not interested in the success stories. It is in that area that we as members of the Parliament and of the committees of the Parliament must always be on our guard. The rights of citizens and the rights of public servants, whose activities we have been expressly established to observe, must be taken into account. We must always seek for the truth. We seek to harm no person, provided that the work which he has undertaken was done at the request of government and was in accordance with the law of this land. For it is the law which, above all, must be paramount. 
-by leave-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I present the official report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Kenya, Uganda, Zambia, Tanzania, Nigeria, Gabon and Sudan, June-July 1979, and I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
Leave granted. 
It is some 1 1 years since this Parliament sent a delegation to the African continent, and the changes that have taken place during that period have been considerable. Not only has the political face of Africa changed but with it significant economic and social opportunities have opened up to the people of that continent since their independence. The significance of Africa to Australia should be seen not merely in terms of what we can give to, or gain from, Africa, but rather in terms of the role which Africa may well play in international politics over the next decade or so. Questions of human rights, especially in regard to southern Africa, will continue to seek the centre stage at the United Nations and elsewhere. There are a number of other situations on the continent, especially in the Horn of Africa, where the rights of minorities are not being protected adequately and where significant interest is not being shown either by the members of the Organisation of African Unity or of the United Nations in these matters because of their unwillingness to interfere in each other's affairs. Until recently, this same principle applied to events in Uganda the absolute application of which led to Africa's tolerance of Idi Amin and subsequent criticism of  President  Nyerere of Tanzania for assisting in his removal. 
Members of this House are conscious of the constant threat of major power intervention in the affairs of Africa. With the end of the colonial era there have been innumerable conflicts, perhaps inevitable in the circumstances of the development of new power elites, often in a situation where democracy, as we understand it, does not exist but where pressures between traditional tribal groups formed by lines drawn on the map during the scramble for Africa conducted by European powers in the late 1 9th century are still only too real. The potential influence of the Soviet Union, using its surrogate, Cuba, for disruption in the internal affairs of Africa, has caused considerable concern both on the continent and elsewhere. The significance of Africa in terms of international politics lies not only in the fact that it contains 53 countries and represents over one-third of the members of the United Nations, but also that in a resource hungry world they control a significant share of the world's resources of a whole range of strategic minerals. The control of these resources would undoubtedly influence the strategic balance, as the economic base of the most developed nations rests on their capacity to obtain readily, and with a minimum of political interference, access to sources of raw materials that exist in abundance in the geographical arc from southern Africa to the Middle East. 
There is a tendency in Australia to believe that African countries are undemocratic and that governments are unable to represent the aspirations of their peoples. Whilst there are examples of where that is so, it would be grossly incorrect to assume that most African governments lack legitimacy in the eyes of their peoples. Since June this year, the continent's three most notorious dictators have all lost power because of the grossness of their actions. They lost the support of their governments and their peoples as a result. The Westminster multi-party system which was developed to serve the needs of the AngloSaxon world some 200 years ago is not seen as a necessity for the government of Africa. Nevertheless, in all the countries visited, with the exception of Uganda, the delegation observed that a fairly sophisticated system of representative government, apparently satisfactory to the domestic conditions of the countries concerned, has been introduced. 
The delegation 's visit to seven African countries just prior to the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in Lusaka not only gave us an opportunity to explore at the head of state level the attitudes of Commonwealth members to the Zimbabwe-Rhodesia problem but also enabled us to gauge accurately their expectations of Australia in this matter. The delegation was impressed with both the strength and unanimity of African opinion on the need for a just settlement which involved all the warring factions and which centred on a new constitutional agreement. We were convinced that front-line states, such as Tanzania and Zambia in particular, saw a role for Australia in the Rhodesian settlement based on our ability to act as an honest broker between them and the British Government. 
The delegation was able to inform the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader 6f the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  on a regular basis of our views as they developed, following our discussions with various Ministers and heads of state. We believe that, as a result, the Australian delegation was able to enter into the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting with a level of briefing probably ahead of that of any other state. The fact that the parliamentary delegation was able to play a useful functional role in support of Australian diplomacy in a period of great significance in the relationship between the white and black Commonwealth demonstrated that delegations of this Parliament can play an effective part in developing and expressing Australian policy, especially in parts of the world which we have tended to ignore. 
There is little conception in Africa of Australia as a nation which, although still among the middle ranking powers, nevertheless is undoubtedly poised to assume a most significant role in a world which, during the 1 980s, will be looking to states which are rich in energy and virtually free from the neo-colonial shibboleths of the past. We are one of the few Western countries without a history of major colonial involvement in what are now independent but still sensitive new nations which do not take kindly to international manipulation, and they will look to us accordingly. For this reason, countries such as Tanzania hoped that Australia would play a positive role in helping to maintain the peace in ZimbabweRhodesia following a ceasefire and agreement on new elections. The delegation is pleased that Australia will be sending 1 10 observers at this most critical time for southern Africa. 
With regard to Australia's relations with Africa, the time has come for a greater commitment to the continent, notwithstanding the inevitable predominance of South East Asia and the Pacific in Australia's concerns. Our trade with Africa is not substantial and prospects for dramatic change in this state of affairs are not good. Australia's development assistance to Africa has to compete with other priorities closer to home and must be expected to remain relatively modest compared with other prospects. In spite of these limitations, the delegation feels that there is a need to encourage a change in this situation and to capitalise on the goodwill that the delegation's visit generated. Australia and Africa share problems of climate, distance and sheer size. They also share problems of Federal-State relations and even the establishment of new capitals. Our development assistance, therefore, should concentrate on dry land farming techniques, water supply, communications and even advice on the creation of new capitals- all areas in which Australia has expertise. The delegation was most impressed by the project aid Australia is already involved in, for example, at Malindi in Kenya and Singida in Tanzania. It recommends the expansion of this effort to answer the demands of African countries for technology transfer rather than more dollars. 
The delegation concluded that the single most important means of developing relations with Africa is by the establishment of a direct air link between Australia and the black Africa continent. Nairobi is the obvious stopover on a London bound flight, and it should be economical. This would open up East Africa to Australia's tourists and also act as a stimulus to the still embryonic Australian-African trade. It would also help Australians to appreciate the peoples of Africa, their problems and their expectations. The delegation concluded that serious consideration should be given to increasing Australia's diplomatic links with Africa and to examining the conditions in which our representatives live in existing posts, in none of which is life easy. To date we have no representation in nonCommonwealth Africa. After a brief visit to one French African state, the delegation was made aware of the strength of the French impact on Africa through the relations which France maintains with its former colonies. 
Equally, the delegation was made aware of the impact of Islam on Africa, the product of a long history. The delegation concluded that the impact of Islam in Africa must be seen in the context of the apparent resurgence of Islam internationally from the Philippines through Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran and the Middle East. Islam's resurgence internationally is related to the oil crisis of 1973. The virtual monopoly of this vital commodity gave a small number of producer countries power that they had not formerly sought to exert. Acting in concert, these countries caused an international economic crisis. It is the prospect of their continuing to act together with other Islamic countries which raises serious questions about their future impact on international politics. Australia's representation, therefore, should reflect the existence of French Africa and Islamic Africa. The delegation has made recommendations accordingly in its report. Our visit was fascinating, difficult, yet rewarding and, we believe, a productive experience. It is my hope and that of my colleagues that the Parliament will use its influence to ensure that the recommendations we have made will be implemented. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 11 October 1979: 
1 ) Do conditions governing the payment of Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowances preclude the recipients being eligible for supporting parents benefits; if not, how many recipients of the allowances are receiving supporting parents benefits. 
What consideration has the Government given to the elimination of this situation. 
What would be the estimated annual saving if this duplication of support payments was eliminated. 
